Risk factors, as outlined below, provide additional information related to risks associated with competition in the mortgage, real estate services and title and escrow industries. 10 Table of Contents Employees As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, we had a total of 376 and 299 full-time and part-time employees, respectively. Management believes that relations with its employees are good. We are not a party to any collective bargaining agreements. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Some of the following risk factors relate to a discussion of our assets. For additional information on our asset categories refer to Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," as well as the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. Risks Related To Our Businesses If we fail to generate new sources of revenue successfully, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Since 2007, management has been challenged by the unprecedented turmoil in the mortgage market, including significant increases in delinquencies and foreclosures and significant increases in credit-related losses. In response, the Company discontinued its non-conforming mortgage and retail operations, its commercial operations and warehouse lending operations in 2007, and during 2008 and 2009 (i) satisfied and terminated all of its reverse repurchase financings, except for one, which was restructured and subsequently satisfied, (ii) reduced and restructured its trust preferred payment obligations, (iii) settled a significant portion of its outstanding loan repurchase claims, and (iv) eliminated its preferred stock dividends. Although these actions have decreased our debt obligations, certain others have caused a reduction in our cash and overall liquidity. In light of the continuing turmoil in the mortgage market, our ability to continue our operations is dependent upon our ability to successfully initiate new sources of revenue, such as our mortgage and real estate fee-based business activities that we established during 2009 and 2010, and re-enter the mortgage lending industry, which may include acquiring new operations, that contribute sufficient additional cash flow to enable us to generate net revenue to meet our current and future expenses. Our future financial performance and success are dependent in large part upon our ability to implement and maintain our mortgage and real estate fee-based business activities and mortgage lending operations successfully. The mortgage and real estate services market is volatile and highly competitive. The Company's ability to successfully compete in the mortgage and real estate services market is uncertain as these operations were only established in the last few years. Our business will be materially affected if we are unable to generate sufficient liquidity to conduct our operations as planned. Our ability to acquire new businesses is significantly constrained by our limited liquidity and our likely inability to obtain financing or to issue equity securities as a result of our current financial condition and current market conditions, as well as other uncertainties and risks. There can be no assurances that we will be able to initiate or acquire new business operations. We may not be able to implement and maintain our new business operations successfully or achieve the anticipated benefits of their implementation. If we are unable to do so, we may be unable to satisfy our future operating costs and liabilities, including repayment of our note payable and long-term debt. 11 Table of Contents Competition in the residential real estate and mortgage services business is intense and may adversely affect our business operations and financial performance; the dominance of a limited number of companies may affect our ability to operate and compete effectively. Competition in the residential real estate and mortgage services business is intense. Plus, the mortgage business and other businesses in which we have begun operations have recently experienced substantial consolidation. Our competitors include banks, thrifts, credit unions, real estate brokerage firms, title and escrow companies, asset management companies, and mortgage banking companies. Several of our competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources and access to capital, a wider geographic presence, more accessible branch office locations, more aggressive marketing campaigns, better brand recognition, the ability to offer a wider array of services or more favorable pricing alternatives, as well as lower origination and operating costs. To compete effectively, we must have a very high level of operational, technological, and managerial expertise, as well as access to capital at a competitive cost. As a result of reduced access to capital, general housing trends, rising delinquencies and defaults and other factors, many mortgage and real estate services firms have recently experienced severe financial difficulty, with some exiting the business or filing for bankruptcy protection, resulting in a consolidation of companies in such industries. The dominance of a limited number of companies has created greater competition and to the extent that we can not compete effectively, it may adversely affect our business operations and financial performance. Our long-term liquidity is dependent on our ability to grow and maintain new businesses. The ability to meet our long-term liquidity requirements is subject to several factors, such as realizing cash flows from our long-term mortgage portfolio and generating fees from our newly established mortgage and real estate fee-based business activities. Our future financial performance and success are dependent in large part upon our ability to grow our mortgage and real estate fee-based business activities. We believe that current cash balances, short-term investments, cash flows realized from our long-term mortgage portfolio and fees generated from our mortgage and real estate fee-based business activities will be adequate to fund our current operations and liabilities. At December 31, 2010, our debt obligations, consisting of our trust preferred securities, junior subordinated notes, and the note payable related to the obligation limited to and secured by some of our residual interests in certain securitization trusts, was an aggregate of approximately $70.9 million in outstanding principal balance. We cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to operate successfully our mortgage and real estate fee-based business activities and other business that we may implement in the future. If we are unable to do so, we may be unable to satisfy our future operating costs and liabilities, including repayment of our note payable and long-term debt. The Company's mortgage portfolio contains significant interest rate risks that are not currently hedged by the Company. Residual interests in certain securitization trusts are expected to generate cash flows to the Company. These cash flows are contingent upon maintaining required overcollateralization levels and can be reduced or eliminated by realized losses from the disposition of loans or REO. Assuming realized losses have not reduced overcollateralization levels below required levels, excess cash flows are distributed to the residual interest holder after the required bond interest and principal payments are made to investors. Interest rates on the loans in the securitization trusts generally adjust bi-annually. Interest rates on the bonds usually adjust monthly with changes partially offset by derivatives instruments (primarily interest rate swap agreements) inside the securitization trusts. Since bond interest rates adjust more frequently than the related loans, increases in LIBOR rates could significantly reduce the future cash flows we receive from these securitization trusts. The amount of the derivatives instruments is not sufficient to fully protect the residual cash flows from increases in LIBOR. The 12 Table of Contents Company does not have the ability to change the derivatives instruments inside the trusts and does not currently hedge this interest rate risk with derivatives instruments outside the securitization trusts. As a result of not fully hedging interest rate risks, the Company's future residual cash flows could be significantly affected by rising LIBOR rates. There has been recent litigation in the mortgage industry related to securitizations. As defaults, delinquencies, foreclosures, and losses in the real estate market continue, there have been recent lawsuits by various investors, insurers, underwriters and others against various participants in securitizations, such as sponsors, depositors, underwriters, and loan sellers. Some lawsuits have alleged that the mortgage loans had origination defects, that there were misrepresentations made about the mortgage loans and the parties failed to properly disclose the quality of the mortgage loans or repurchase defective loans or that there were other misrepresentations, lack of representations, or errors in securitization documents. There have been other claims contending errors or misrepresentations in the securitization documents or process itself. Historically, we both securitized and sold mortgage loans to third parties that may have been deposited or included in pools for securitizations. We have discovered discrepancies in our securitization documents and are working with the parties involved, including bondholders, on the issue. Recently the trustee of three of our securitizations has filed actions in the Superior Court of the State of California, County of Orange, seeking instructions on how to resolve the ambiguities, inconsistencies in and/or omissions by modifying or reforming the securitizations documents to be consistent. Although the petitions do not seek any affirmative recovery from us, the outcome of that litigation may have an effect on us. To the extent that we are not successful in correcting the discrepancies or even if we are successful and make revisions to correct the discrepancies, we may be subject to liability. In connection with these potential claims, we may be asked to repurchase these bonds, provide indemnification against such claims or we may become subject to litigation related to the securitizations. As a result, we may incur significant legal and other expenses in defending against claims and litigation and we may be required to pay settlement costs, damages, penalties or other charges which could adversely affect our financial results. Our performance may be adversely affected by the performance of parties who service or sub-service our mortgage loans. We sell or contract with third-parties for the servicing of all our mortgage loans. Our operations, performance and liabilities are subject to risks associated with inadequate or untimely servicing. Poor performance by a servicer may result in greater than expected delinquencies and losses on our mortgage loans or in our resulting exposure to investors, bond holders, bond insurers or others as we are responsible for the performance of our loan servicers. If we, or our servicers, commit a material breach of our obligations as a servicer or master servicer, we may be subject to termination if the breach is not cured within a specified period of time following notice, causing us to lose master servicing income. In addition, we may be required to indemnify the securitization trustee against losses from any failure by us, as master servicer or on behalf of the servicer, to perform the servicing obligations properly. Recent announcements of deficiencies in foreclosure documentation by several large servicers have raised various concerns relating to foreclosure practices. We are working with all of our servicers to identify deficient foreclosure practices. A number of our servicers, including several of our largest ones, have temporarily suspended foreclosure proceedings in some or all states in which they do business while they conduct their evaluations. We are also evaluating the impact of these foreclosure practices on our REO properties and the servicers have suspended certain REO sales and eviction proceedings for REO properties pending the completion of the evaluation. Issues have also been identified with respect to practices of certain legal counsel involved in the foreclosure process and in the use of the mortgage electronic registration system as a foreclosing party or as a listed beneficiary of a mortgage. We expect that these issues and the related foreclosure suspensions could prolong the foreclosure process 13 Table of Contents nationwide and may delay sales of our REO properties and hence affect the performance of our securities. Continued foreclosure delays and other disruptions in the real estate market may result in a material adverse impact to our financial results. Also, a substantial increase in our delinquency or foreclosure rate could adversely affect our ability to access the capital and secondary markets for our financing needs. Also, with respect to mortgage loans subject to a securitization, greater delinquencies would adversely affect the value of our residual interest, if any, we hold in connection with that securitization. In a securitization, relevant agreements permit us to be terminated as servicer or master servicer under specific conditions described in these agreements. If, as a result of a servicer or sub-servicer's failure to perform adequately, we were terminated as master servicer of a securitization, the value of any master servicing rights held by us could be adversely affected. The Company, through its subsidiaries, has entered into financing facilities agreements to fund loans for the mortgage lending operations that contain certain financial covenants. Our warehouse facilities contain covenants, including requirements to maintain a certain minimum net worth, liquidity, debt ratios, profitability levels and other customary debt covenants. Events of default under these facilities can constitute a breach of the covenants and as such allows the lenders to pursue certain remedies which may constitute a cross default under other agreements. If we were unable to meet or maintain the necessary covenant requirements or satisfy, or obtain waivers from, the continuing covenants, this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations We are a defendant in purported class action lawsuits and may not prevail in these matters. Class action lawsuits and regulatory actions alleging improper marketing practices, abusive loan terms and fees, disclosure violations, improper yield spread premiums and other matters are risks faced by all mortgage originators, particularly those in the Alt-A and subprime market. We are a defendant in purported class actions pending in different states. Some of the class actions allege generally that the loan originator (not Impac) improperly charged fees in violation of various state lending or consumer protection laws in connection with mortgages that we acquired while others allege that our lending practice was a statutory violation, an unlawful business practice, an unfair business practice or a breach of a contract. They generally seek unspecified compensatory damages, punitive damages, pre- and post-judgment interest, costs and expenses and rescission of the mortgages, as well as a return of any improperly collected fees. We may incur defense costs and other expenses in connection with the class action lawsuits, and we cannot assure you that the ultimate outcome of these or other actions will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. In addition to the expense and burden incurred in defending this litigation and any damages that we may suffer, our management's efforts and attention may be diverted from the ordinary business operations in order to address these claims. If the final resolution of this litigation is unfavorable to us, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows might be materially adversely affected. We believe we have meritorious defenses to the actions and intend to defend against them vigorously; however, an adverse judgment in any of these matters could have a material adverse effect on us. Second trust deed mortgages in our long term investment portfolio expose us to greater credit risks. Our security interest in the property securing second mortgages in our portfolio is subordinated to the interest of the first mortgage holder. Typically, the second mortgages have a higher combined loan to value (CLTV) ratio than do our first mortgages. If the borrower experiences difficulties in making senior lien payments or if the value of the property is equal to or less than the amount needed to repay the 14 Table of Contents borrower's obligation to the first mortgage holder upon foreclosure, our second mortgage loan may not be repaid. Also, our senior security interests may be affected if there are junior liens on the same properties resulting in a higher CLTV which borrowers may perceive have no equity. This could result in our senior liens defaulting at a higher rate than senior liens without a junior lien. Deteriorating mortgage market conditions have had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on our earnings and financial condition. Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the mortgage and real estate markets, the financial markets and the economy generally. Beginning in 2007, the mortgage industry and the single-family residential housing markets, and to a lesser extent multifamily residential housing markets, were adversely affected as home prices declined and delinquencies and defaults significantly increased. Borrowers have found it difficult to refinance due to home price depreciation and lenders tightened their underwriting guidelines, which has led to further increases in defaults and credit losses. During 2010, the Company continued to be significantly and negatively affected by the deteriorating real estate market and the weak economic environment. As a result, non-conforming mortgage loans have not performed up to historical expectations, and the fair value of non-conforming mortgage loans has deteriorated. This, in turn, has resulted in declining revenues and increased expenses, including significant increases in loan losses and impairment charges, losses sustained in the operation of real estate properties acquired in foreclosure proceedings and foreclosure related professional fees. These factors have led to deterioration in the quality of the Company's long-term mortgage portfolio, as evidenced by the delinquencies, foreclosures and credit losses. The disruption in the capital markets and secondary mortgage markets has also reduced liquidity and investor demand for mortgage loans and mortgage backed securities, while yield requirements for these products has increased. The increased defaults on residential mortgage loans, increases in the number of ratings downgrades with respect to bonds issued in connection with securitized loans, lack of liquidity in the bond market and the financial condition of many companies that typically participate in this market have negatively affected our ability to operate our business. Continuing concerns about the declining real estate market, as well as inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues and the availability and cost of credit, have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and markets going forward. The mortgage market has been severely affected by changes in the lending landscape and there is no assurance that these conditions have stabilized or that they will not worsen. These unprecedented disruptions and deterioration of the mortgage market, have had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on the Company's earnings and financial condition. Without adequate financing, the growth of our business operations will be limited. As of December 31, 2010, we have been able to increase warehouse funding capacity to $42 million. We are currently seeking warehouse facilities, and although we have obtained preliminary term sheets from lenders for a potential total warehouse funding capacity of $160 million, as of the date of this report, we have not executed definitive agreements for the additional warehouse capacity. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing, we will not be able to expand our business operations as planned, which will limit our revenues and operating results. We may not be able to access financing sources on favorable terms, or at all, which could adversely affect our ability to implement and operate our business as planned. Future financing sources may include borrowings in the form of bank credit facilities (including term loans and revolving facilities), repurchase agreements, warehouse facilities, structured financing 15 Table of Contents arrangements, public and private equity and debt issuances and derivative instruments, in addition to transactions or asset specific funding arrangements. Our access to sources of financing depends upon a number of factors over which we have little or no control, including general market conditions, resources and policies or lenders. Under current market conditions, many forms of structured financing arrangements are generally unavailable, which has also limited borrowings under warehouse and repurchase agreements that are intended to be refinanced by such financings. In addition, if regulatory capital requirements imposed on our private lenders change, they may be required to limit, or increase the cost of, financing they provide to us. In general, this could potentially increase our financing costs and reduce our liquidity. Consequently, the implementation of our new mortgage lending operations may be dictated by the cost and availability of financing. Depending on market conditions at the relevant time, we may have to rely more heavily on additional equity issuances, which may be dilutive to our shareholders, or on less efficient forms of debt financing that require a larger portion of our cash flow from operations, thereby reducing funds available for our operations and future business opportunities. We cannot assure you that we will have access to such equity or debt capital on favorable terms (including, without limitation, cost and term) at the desired times, or at all, which could negatively affect our results of operations. If defaults on our mortgage loans continue, it will result in continuing declines in revenues and net income. Loan defaults result in a decrease in interest income and an increase in loan losses. The decrease in interest income resulting from loan defaults may be for a prolonged period of time as we seek to recover, primarily through legal proceedings, the outstanding principal balance and accrued interest due on a defaulted loan, plus the legal costs incurred in pursuing our legal remedies. Legal proceedings, which may include foreclosure actions and bankruptcy proceedings, are expensive and time consuming. The decrease in interest income, the costs incurred from defaulted loans and increases in loan losses will have an adverse effect on our liquidity, net income and shareholders' equity. The adverse market conditions have affected our mortgage loan delinquencies and REO. At December 31, 2010, the Company's mortgage portfolio had 21.3 percent or $2.4 billion of loans that were 60 days or more delinquent, included in continuing and discontinued operations, compared to 25.1 percent or $3.1 billion at December 31, 2009. REO decreased 35 percent to $92.8 million at December 31, 2009 as compared to $142.7 million at December 31, 2009 and we incurred losses from REOs of $6.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $218.2 million for the previous year. These losses are primarily in the nonrecourse securitization trusts but could result in reduced cash flows from the Company's residual interests in respective securitizations. These conditions, which increase the cost and reduce the availability of debt, may continue or worsen in the future. A material difference between the assumptions used in the determination of the value of our residual interests and our actual experience would cause us to write down the value of these securities and could harm our liquidity and financial condition. Investments in residual interests and subordinated securities are much riskier than investments in senior mortgage-backed securities because these subordinated securities bear credit losses prior to the related senior securities. The risk associated with holding residual interests and subordinated securities is greater than holding the underlying mortgage loans directly due to the concentration of losses attributed to the subordinated securities. The value of residual interests represents the present value of future cash flows expected to be received by us from the excess cash flows created in the securitization transaction. In general, future cash flows are estimated by taking the coupon rate of the loans underlying the transaction less the interest rate paid to the bond holders, less contractually specified servicing and trustee fees, and after giving effect to estimated prepayments, credit losses and overcollateralization 16 Table of Contents requirements. We estimate future cash flows from these securities and value them utilizing assumptions based in part on projected interest rates, delinquency, mortgage loan prepayment speeds and credit losses. It is extremely difficult to validate the assumptions we use in valuing our residual interests. Even if the general accuracy of the valuation model is validated, valuations are highly dependent upon the reasonableness of our assumptions and the predictability of the relationships which drive the results of the model. Such assumptions are complex as we must make judgments about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. If our actual experience differs from our assumptions, we could be required to reduce the value of these securities. Furthermore, if our actual experience differs materially from these assumptions, our cash flow, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity may be harmed. We may experience reduced net earnings or losses if our liabilities re-price at different rates than our assets. A significant source of revenue is net interest income or net interest spread from our long-term mortgage portfolio, which is the difference between the interest we earn on our interest earning assets and the interest we pay on our interest bearing liabilities. The rates we pay on our borrowings are independent of the rates we earn on our assets and may be subject to more frequent periodic rate adjustments. Therefore, we could experience a decrease in net earnings or a loss because the interest rates on our borrowings could increase faster than the interest rates on our assets, if the increased borrowing costs are not offset by reduced cash payments on derivatives recorded in other non-interest income. If our net interest spread becomes negative, we will be paying more interest on our borrowings than we will be earning on our assets and we will be exposed to a risk of loss. The rates paid on our borrowings and the rates received on our assets may be based upon different indices. Our long-term mortgage portfolio includes mortgages that are one-, three- and six-month LIBOR and one-year LIBOR hybrid ARMs. These are mortgages with fixed interest rates for an initial period of time, after which they begin bearing interest based upon short-term interest rate indices and adjust periodically. We generally funded mortgages with adjustable interest rate borrowings having interest rates that are indexed to short-term interest rates, typically one-month LIBOR, and adjust periodically at various intervals. To the extent that there is an increase in the interest rate index used to determine our adjustable interest rate borrowings and it increases faster than the indices used to determine the rates on our assets (i.e., the increase is not offset by a corresponding increase in the rates at which interest accrues on our assets) or is not offset by various cash payments on interest rate derivatives that we have in place at any given time, our net earnings will decrease or we will have net losses. Additionally, the Company has commenced a policy to modify loans by either reducing the interest rates, waiving accrued and unpaid interest or deferring accrued interest to help minimize delinquencies and maximize recoveries on loans. Although we believe in the long run this is beneficial to the Company, the modification of loans to defer the re-pricing may cause the Company to experience a reduction in expected cash flows. ARMs typically have interest rate caps, which limit interest rates charged to the borrower during any given period. Our borrowings are not subject to similar restrictions. As a result, in a period of rapidly increasing interest rates, the interest rates we pay on our borrowings could increase without limitation, while the interest rates we earn on our ARMs would be capped. If this occurs, our net interest spread could be significantly reduced or we could suffer a net interest loss if not offset by a decrease in the cash payments on interest rate derivatives that we have in place at any given time. We may be subject to losses on mortgages for which we did not obtain mortgage insurance. We did not obtain credit enhancements such as mortgage pool or special hazard insurance for all of our mortgages and mortgage investments. Generally, we required mortgage insurance on any first mortgage with an LTV ratio greater than 80 percent. During the time we hold mortgages for investment, 17 Table of Contents we are subject to risks of borrower defaults and bankruptcies and special hazard losses that are not covered by standard hazard insurance. If a borrower defaults on a mortgage that we hold, we bear the risk of loss of principal to the extent there is any deficiency between the value of the related mortgaged property and the amount owing on the mortgage loan and any insurance proceeds available to us through the mortgage insurer. Also, to the extent we have insurance coverage, we bear the risk of the insurance carriers not being able to make the required payments. Loans to non-conforming borrowers may expose us to a higher risk of delinquencies, foreclosures and losses. We were an acquirer and originator of non-conforming single-family and multifamily mortgage loans. These are mortgages that generally may not qualify for purchase by government-sponsored agencies such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Our operations have been negatively affected due to our investments in these mortgages. Credit risks associated with these mortgages may be greater than those associated with conforming mortgages. Mortgages made to such borrowers generally entail a higher risk of delinquency and higher losses than mortgages made to borrowers who utilize conventional mortgage sources. Delinquency, foreclosures and losses generally increase during economic slowdowns or recessions. The actual risk of delinquencies, foreclosures and losses on mortgages made to our borrowers are higher under current economic conditions than those in the past. Additionally, the combination of different underwriting criteria and higher rates of interest leads to greater risk, including higher prepayment rates and higher delinquency rates and /or credit losses. We also have loans that are interest only. If there is a decline in real estate values borrowers may default on these types of loans since they have not reduced their principal balances, which, therefore, could exceed the value of their property. In addition, a reduction in property values would also cause an increase in the CLTV or LTV ratio for that loan which could have the effect of reducing the value of the property collateralized by that loan, reducing the borrowers' equity in their homes to a level that would increase the risk of default. Representations and warranties made by us in our loan sales and securitizations may subject us to liability. In connection with our loan sales to third parties and our prior securitizations, we transferred mortgages acquired and originated by us to the third parties or into a trust in exchange for cash and, in the case of a securitized mortgage, residual certificates issued by the trust. The trustee, purchaser, bondholder, or other entities involved in the issuance of the securities (which may include bond insurers) may have recourse to us with respect to the breach of the representations, and warranties made by us at the time such mortgages are transferred or when the securities are sold. Those representations and warranties may include, but are not limited to, issues such as the validity of the lien, the absence of liens or delinquent taxes, the validity of the appraisal obtained in conjunction with the loan, the truthfulness of information used in the loan approval process, the loans compliance with all local, state and federal laws, the delivery of all documents required to perfect title to the lien, the loan meeting all underwriting criteria and the selection process used to include the loans in any particular transaction. Also, we previously engaged in bulk whole loan sales pursuant to agreements that generally provide for recourse by the purchaser against us in the event of a breach of one of our representations or warranties, any fraud or misrepresentation during the mortgage origination process, or upon early default on such mortgage. We attempted to limit the potential remedies of such purchasers to the potential remedies we received from those from whom we acquired or originated the mortgages. However, in some cases, the remedies available to a purchaser of mortgages from us may be broader or extend longer than those available to us against others whom have sold mortgage loans to us and should a purchaser enforce its remedies against us, we are not always able to enforce whatever remedies we have against others. Furthermore, if we discover, prior to the sale or transfer of a loan, that there is any fraud or 18 Table of Contents misrepresentation with respect to the mortgage and the originator fails to repurchase the mortgage, then we may not be able to sell the mortgage or we may have to sell the mortgage at a discount. Our commercial and multifamily mortgages may expose us to increased lending risks. Our commercial and multifamily mortgages typically involve larger mortgage balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgages. These commercial and multifamily mortgages have risks because repayment of the mortgages often depends on the successful operations and the income stream of the borrowers. Additionally, current economic conditions and the resulting tightening of credit markets have limited the opportunities for borrowers seeking to refinance their mortgages prior to scheduled interest rate resets. The inability of commercial and multifamily borrowers to successfully refinance their mortgages prior to scheduled interest rate reset dates could significantly increase delinquencies and losses within our long-term mortgage portfolio. Failure to successfully manage interest rate risks may adversely affect results of operations. As part of our mortgage lending operation, we will follow a program intended to protect against interest rate changes. However, developing an effective interest rate risk management strategy is complex and no management strategy can completely insulate the Company from risks associated with interest rate changes. In addition, hedging involves transaction costs. In the event the Company hedges against interest rate risks, the Company may substantially reduce its net earnings. In the event the Company purchases derivatives to hedge against market and interest rate risks and the provider of such derivatives becomes financially unsound or insolvent, the Company may be forced to unwind such derivatives with such provider and may take a loss thereon. Further, the Company could suffer the adverse consequences that the hedging transaction was intended to protect against. Although, the Company intends to purchase derivatives only from financially sound institutions and to monitor the financial strength of such institutions on a periodic basis, no assurance can be given that the Company can avoid such third party risks. The geographic concentration of our mortgages increases our exposure to risks in those areas. We did not set limitations on the percentage of our long-term mortgage portfolio composed of properties located in any one area (whether by state, zip code or other geographic measure). Concentration in any one area increases our exposure to the economic and natural hazard risks associated with that area. A majority of our mortgage acquisitions and originations, long-term mortgage portfolio and finance receivables were secured by properties in California and, to a lesser extent, Florida. California and Florida have experienced, and may experience in the future, an economic downturn and have also suffered the effects of certain natural hazards. As a result of the economic downturn, real estate values in California and Florida have decreased drastically and may continue to decrease in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Furthermore, if borrowers are not insured for natural disasters, which are typically not covered by standard hazard insurance policies, then they may not be able to repair the property or may stop paying their mortgages if the property is damaged. This would cause increased foreclosures and decrease our ability to recover losses on properties affected by such disasters. This would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. 19 Table of Contents The performance of our long-term mortgage portfolio may be adversely affected by the performance of parties who service or sub-service our mortgage loans. We sell or contract with third-parties for the servicing of all our mortgage loans, including those in our securitizations. Our operations are subject to risks associated with inadequate or untimely servicing. Poor performance by a servicer may result in greater than expected delinquencies and losses on our mortgage loans. A substantial increase in our delinquency or foreclosure rate or delays in the foreclosure process could adversely affect our ability to access the capital and secondary markets for our financing needs. Also, with respect to mortgage loans subject to a securitization, greater delinquencies and greater loss severities would adversely affect the value of our residual interest, if any, we hold in connection with that securitization. In a securitization, relevant agreements permit us to be terminated as servicer or master servicer under specific conditions described in these agreements. If, as a result of a servicer or sub-servicer's failure to perform adequately, we were terminated as master servicer of a securitization, the value of any master servicing rights held by us could be adversely affected. The potential limitation or wind-down of the role Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac play in the residential mortgage-backed security (MBS) market may adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition. On February 11, 2011, the Treasury issued a White Paper titled "Reforming America's Housing Finance Market" (or the White Paper) that lays out, among other things, proposals to limit or potentially wind down the role that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac play in the mortgage market. Any such proposals, if enacted, may have broad adverse implications for the MBS market and our business, operations and financial condition. We expect such proposals to be the subject of significant discussion and it is not yet possible to determine whether such proposals will be enacted and, if so, when, what form any final legislation or policies might take or how proposals, legislation or policies emanating from the White Paper may impact the MBS market and our business, operations and financial condition. We are evaluating, and will continue to evaluate, the potential impact of the proposals set forth in the White Paper on our business and our financial position and results of operations. If we are forced to liquidate, we may have few unpledged assets for distribution to unsecured creditors or equity holders. In the event we are forced to liquidate, the majority of our assets are either collateral for specific borrowings or pledged as collateral for secured liabilities. We may have few remaining assets available for unsecured creditors and equity holders. We are exposed to environmental liabilities, with respect to properties that we take title to upon foreclosure, that could increase our costs of doing business and harm our results of operations. In the course of our activities, we may foreclose and take title to residential properties and become subject to environmental or mold liabilities with respect to those properties. The laws and regulations related to mold or environmental contamination often impose liability without regard to responsibility for the contamination. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with mold or environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. Moreover, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based upon damages and costs resulting from mold or environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant 20 Table of Contents mold or environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be significantly harmed. We are subject to risks of operational failure that are beyond our control. Substantially all of our operations are located in Irvine, California. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage and interruption from fire, flood, telecommunications failure, break-ins, earthquake and similar events. Our operations may also be interrupted by power disruptions, including rolling black-outs implemented in California due to power shortages. Furthermore, our security mechanisms may be inadequate to prevent security breaches to our computer systems, including from computer viruses, electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. Such security breaches or operational failures could expose us to liability, impair our operations, result in losses, and harm our reputation. Loss of our current executive officers or other key management could significantly harm our business. We depend on the diligence, skill and experience of our senior executives, including our chief executive officer and president. We believe that our future results will also depend in part upon our attracting and retaining highly skilled and qualified management. We seek to compensate our executive officers, as well as other employees, through competitive salaries, bonuses and other incentive plans, but there can be no assurance that these programs will allow us to retain key management executives or hire new key employees. The loss of our chief executive officer, president, or other senior executive officers and key management could have a material adverse affect on our operations because other officers may not have the experience and expertise to readily replace these individuals. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. Furthermore, in light of our present financial condition, no assurance can be given that we will retain these and other executive officers and key management personnel. To the extent that one or more of our top executives or other key management personnel are no longer employed by us, our operations and business prospects may be adversely affected. The loss of, and changes in, key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to maintain effective systems of internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or prevent fraud, which could cause current and potential stockholders to lose confidence in our financial reporting, adversely affect the trading price of our securities or harm our operating results. Effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company. Any failure to develop or maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures could harm our reputation or operating results, or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. We cannot be certain that our efforts to improve or maintain our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures will be successful or that we will be able to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to develop or maintain effective controls or difficulties encountered in their implementation or other effective improvement of our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures could harm our operating results, or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we are unable to adequately establish or maintain our internal control over financial reporting, our external auditors will not be able to issue an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In the past, we have reported, and may discover in the future, material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. 21 Table of Contents Ineffective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities or affect our ability to access the capital markets and could result in regulatory proceedings against us by, among others, the SEC. In addition, a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting, which may lead to deficiencies in the preparation of financial statements, could lead to litigation claims against us. The defense of any such claims may cause the diversion of management's attention and resources, and we may be required to pay damages if any such claims or proceedings are not resolved in our favor. Any litigation, even if resolved in our favor, could cause us to incur significant legal and other expenses or cause delays in our public reporting. Such events could harm our business, affect our ability to raise capital and adversely affect the trading price of our securities. Our ability to utilize our net operating losses and certain other tax attributes may be limited. At the end of our 2010 taxable year, we had net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards of approximately $490.6 million for federal income tax purposes and approximately $492.1 million for state income tax purposes. During the year ended December 31, 2010, estimated net operating loss carryforwards were reduced as a result of the Company generating taxable income from cancellation of debt for approximately $426.2 million of securitized mortgage borrowings. Although, under existing tax rules, we are generally allowed to use those NOL carryforwards to offset taxable income in subsequent taxable years, our ability to use those NOL carryforwards to offset income may be severely limited to the extent that we have experienced or do experience an ownership change within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. These provisions could also limit our ability to deduct certain losses (built-in losses) we recognize after an ownership change with respect to assets we own at the time of the ownership change. In general, an ownership change, as defined by Section 382, results from transactions increasing ownership of certain stockholders or public groups in our stock by more than 50 percentage points over a three-year period. In addition, the generation of taxable income from cancellation of debt may further reduce the NOL. Any limitation on our NOL carryforwards that could be used to offset taxable income would adversely affect our liquidity and cash flow, as and when we become profitable. However, we may not generate sufficient taxable income in future periods to be able to realize fully the tax benefits of our NOL carryforwards. Regulatory Risks Violation of various federal, state and local laws may result in financial losses. To the extent we originated and purchased mortgage loans, re-enter the mortgage lending business, or provide title and escrow services, loan modification and debt settlement services, asset management, liquiquidation and oversight services, and other new businesses in which we may commence, applicable state and local laws generally regulate interest rates and other charges, require certain disclosure, and require applicable licensing. In addition, other state and local laws, public policy and general principles of equity relating to the protection of consumers, unfair and deceptive practices and debt collection practices may apply to the origination, servicing and collection of our loans, and title and escrow services. Our business is also subject to various federal laws, including: the Federal Truth-in-Lending Act and Regulation Z promulgated there under, which require certain disclosures to the borrowers regarding the terms of the loans and which has recently been interpreted to require substantial changes in compensation that can be paid to brokers and loan originators; the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and Regulation B promulgated there under, which prohibit discrimination on the basis of age, race, color, sex, religion, marital status, national origin, 22 Table of Contents receipt of public assistance or the exercise of any right under the Consumer Credit Protection Act, in the extension of credit; the Fair Housing Act, which prohibits discrimination in housing on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, familial status, or handicap, in housing-related transactions; the Fair Credit Reporting Act, which regulates the use and reporting of information related to the borrower's credit experience; the Fair and Accurate Credit Transaction Act, which regulates credit reporting and use of credit information in making unsolicited offers of credit; the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, which imposes requirements on all lenders with respect to their collection and use of nonpublic financial information and requires them to maintain the security of that information; the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, which requires that consumers receive disclosures at various times and outlaws kickbacks that increase the cost of settlement services; the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, which requires the reporting of public loan data; the Telephone Consumer Protection Act and the Can Spam Act, which regulate commercial solicitations via telephone, fax, and the Internet; the Depository Institutions Deregulation and Monetary Control Act of 1980, which preempts certain state usury laws; the Alternative Mortgage Transaction Parity Act of 1982, which preempts certain state lending laws which regulate alternative mortgage transactions; the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act which prohibits unfair debt collection practices; the Secure and Fair Enforcement for Mortgage Licensing Act of 2008 establishes national minimum standards for mortgage licensees; the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which is a sweeping overhaul of the financial regulatory system. Title XIV of the Dodd-Frank Act contains the Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act ("Mortgage Act"). The Mortgage Act imposes a number of additional requirements on lenders and servicers of residential mortgage loans, including Impac, by amending certain existing provisions and adding new sections to TILA, RESPA, and other federal laws. The penalties for noncompliance with these laws are also significantly increased by the Mortgage Act, which could lead to an increase in lawsuits against mortgage lenders and servicers. Like other parts of the Dodd-Frank Act, the Mortgage Act requires that implementing regulations be issued before many of its provisions are effective. Therefore, many of these provisions in the Mortgage Act might not become effective until 2013 or early 2014; and New and proposed legislation affecting the debt settlement business. Violations of certain provisions of these federal and state laws may limit our ability to collect all or part of the principal of or interest on the loans and in addition could subject us to damages and could result in the mortgagors rescinding the loans whether held by us or subsequent holders of the loans. In 23 Table of Contents addition, such violations could cause us to be in default under our credit and repurchase lines and could result in the loss of licenses held by us. Similarly, it is possible borrowers may assert that the loan forms we used or acquired, including forms for "interest-only" and "option-ARM" loans for which there is little standardization or uniformity, fail to properly describe the transactions they intended, or that our forms failed to comply with applicable consumer protection statutes or other federal and state laws. This could result in liability for violations of certain provisions of federal and state consumer protection laws and our inability to sell the loans and our obligation to repurchase the loans or indemnify the purchasers. The title insurance business is heavily regulated by state insurance regulatory authorities including the California Department of Insurance. These authorities generally possess broad powers with respect to the licensing of title insurers, the types and amounts of investments that title insurers may make, insurance rates, forms of policies and the form and content of required annual statements, as well as the power to audit and examine title insurers. Under state laws, certain levels of capital and surplus must be maintained and certain amounts of securities must be segregated or deposited with appropriate state officials. Various state statutes require title insurers to defer a portion of all premiums in a reserve for the protection of policyholders and to segregate investments in a corresponding amount. Further, most states restrict the amount of dividends and distributions a title insurer may make to its shareholders. The Obama Administration recently delivered a report to Congress regarding proposals to reform the housing finance market in the United States. The report, among other things, outlined various potential proposals to wind down Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (the "GSEs") and reduce or eliminate over time the role of the GSEs in guaranteeing mortgages and providing funding for mortgage loans, as well as proposals to implement reforms relating to borrowers, lenders, and investors in the mortgage market, including reducing the maximum size of a loan that the GSEs can guarantee, phasing-in a minimum down payment requirement for borrowers, improving underwriting standards, and increasing accountability and transparency in the securitization process. The extent and timing of any regulatory reform regarding the GSEs and the home mortgage market, as well as any effect on Impac's business and financial results, are uncertain. Any other future legislation and/or regulation, if adopted, also could have a material adverse effect on our business operations, income, and/or competitive position and may have other negative consequences. New regulatory laws affecting our operations may affect our ability to re-enter the mortgage market, continue our current operations or commence new operations. The regulatory environments in which we previously operated, and continue to operate, have an effect on all the activities in which we are engaged and may engage in the future. Changes to the laws, regulations or regulatory policies can affect whether and to what extent we may be able to profitably reenter the mortgage markets, whether we can continue to operate current businesses and whether we can commence new operations. Many states and local governments and the Federal Government have enacted, or may enact laws, or regulations that restrict or prohibit some provisions in some programs or businesses that we have previously participated in, currently participate in or plan to participate in the future. As such, we cannot be sure that in the future we will be able to engage in activities that were similar to those we engaged or participated in the past thereby limiting ability to commence new operations. As a result, we might be at a competitive disadvantage which would affect our operations and profitability. Our operations may be adversely affected if we are subject to the Investment Company Act. We intend to conduct our business at all times so as not to become regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. The Investment Company Act exempts entities that are 24 Table of Contents primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate. In order to qualify for this exemption we must maintain at least 55 percent of our assets directly in mortgages, qualifying pass-through certificates and certain other qualifying interests in real estate. Our ownership of certain mortgage assets may be limited by the provisions of the Investment Company Act, should we ever be subject to the Act. If the SEC adopts a contrary interpretation with respect to these securities or otherwise believes we do not satisfy the above exception, we could be required to restructure our activities or sell certain of our assets. To insure that we continue to qualify for the exemption we may be required at times to adopt less efficient methods of financing certain of our mortgage assets and we may be precluded from acquiring certain types of higher-yielding mortgage assets. The net effect of these factors will be to lower our net interest income. If we fail to qualify for exemption from registration as an investment company, our ability to use leverage would be substantially reduced, and we would not be able to conduct our business as described. Our business will be materially and adversely affected if we fail to qualify for this exemption. Limitations on acquisition and change in control ownership limit. Our Charter and bylaws, and Maryland corporate law contain a number of provisions that could delay, defer, or prevent a transaction or a change of control of us that might involve a premium price for holders of our capital stock or otherwise be in their best interests by increasing the associated costs and timeframe necessary to make an acquisition, making the process for acquiring a sufficient number of shares of our capital stock to effectuate or accomplish such a change of control longer and more costly. In addition, investors may refrain from attempting to cause a change in control because of the difficulty associated with such a venture because of the limitations. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Securities Our share prices have been and may continue to be volatile and the trading of our shares may be limited. The market price of our securities has been volatile. Our common stock has been trading on the NYSE Amex stock exchange since December 2009, and prior to that it was quoted on the pink sheets since November 2008. We cannot guarantee that a consistently active trading market for our securities will continue. In addition, there can be no assurances that such markets will continue or that any shares which may be purchased may be sold without incurring a loss. Any such market price of our shares may not necessarily bear any relationship to our book value, assets, past operating results, financial condition or any other established criteria of value, and may not be indicative of the market price for the shares in the future. The market price of our securities is likely to continue to be highly volatile and could be significantly affected by factors including: unanticipated fluctuations in our operating results; general market and mortgage industry conditions; mortgage and real estate fees; delinquencies and defaults on outstanding mortgages; loss severities on loans and REO; prepayments on mortgages; 25 Table of Contents valuations of securitization related assets and liabilities; mark to market adjustments related to the fair value of derivatives; and interest rates. During 2010, our common stock reached an intra-day high sales price of $6.18 on January 13, and an intra-day low sales price of $2.49 on September 13. As of March 25, 2011, our stock price closed at $2.61 per share. In addition, significant price and volume fluctuations in the stock market have particularly affected the market prices for the securities of mortgage companies such as ours. Furthermore, general conditions in the mortgage industry may adversely affect the market price of our securities. These broad market fluctuations have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect the market price of our securities. If our results of operations fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in a future quarter, the market price of our securities could also be materially adversely affected and we may experience difficulty in raising capital. Issuances of additional shares of our common stock may adversely affect its market price and significantly dilute stockholders. In order to support our business objectives, we may raise capital through the sale of equity. We may also issue shares of common stock to settle outstanding obligations and liabilities. The issuance or sale, or the proposed sale, of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock or other outstanding securities. We do not know the actual or perceived effect of these issuances, the timing of any offerings or issuances of securities, the potential dilution of the book value or earnings per share of our securities then outstanding and the effect on the market price of our securities then outstanding. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 