Item 1A. Risk Factors Factors That May Affect Future Results Many factors outside of our control could impact future financial results. While not an exhaustive list, the following important factors could cause our actual results for 2010 and beyond to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements we have made. Our business can be impacted by governmental actions relating to tobacco products. In 2009, more than 90% of our net sales were from products used by the tobacco industry in making cigarettes or other tobacco products. Governments around the world, particularly in the United States and western Europe, increasingly are regulating the advertising, promotion, sale and use of tobacco products as a result of reports and speculation with respect to the possible harmful physical effects of cigarette smoking, second-hand smoke and use of tobacco products. In addition, tobacco products are heavily taxed in many jurisdictions, and U.S. healthcare legislation — the U.S. State Children’s Health Insurance Program, known as SCHIP legislation — passed into law in January 2009 significantly raised federal excise taxes on all tobacco products. Cigarette consumption in the United States and western Europe has declined, in part due to these actions, which, in turn, have decreased demand for our products in these regions. In addition, litigation is pending against the major manufacturers of consumer tobacco products seeking damages for health problems allegedly resulting from the use of tobacco in various forms. It is not possible to predict the outcome of such litigation or what effect adverse developments in pending or future litigation may have on the tobacco industry or its demand for our products, but in the past, increases in taxes and litigation have adversely affected demand. Legislation also was recently adopted in the U.S. that expands the regulatory jurisdiction of the Federal Food and Drug Administration to include tobacco products, and product component disclosure regulations, commonly known as REACH, are being implemented in the European Union. The impact of these legislative initiatives on the production and sale of our and our customers’ products is not presently known. Our technological advantages are unlikely to continue indefinitely. We consider our intellectual property and patents to be a material asset. We have been at the forefront of developing new products and technology within our industry and have patented several of our innovations, particularly with regard to cigarette paper used to produce lower ignition propensity (“LIP”) cigarettes. This has enabled us to sell more products, and to sell products at higher margins, than we otherwise would have been able to sell. Presently, we are seeing evidence of increasing efforts and activity by our competitors to develop and sell competitive products. Over time, we expect our competitors to develop competitive products or to license our innovations. Ultimately, our patents will expire. As we expand our production of LIP papers and RTL to more locations and countries, the risk of the loss of proprietary trade secrets will increase, and any significant loss would result in the loss of the competitive advantages provided by such trade secrets. While we cannot predict the impact of these trends and eventualities, they likely will be to reduce our sales and margins from the levels that we otherwise would have achieved. Effectively policing our domestic and international intellectual property and patent rights is costly and may not be successful. Our portfolio of granted patents varies by country, which could have an impact on any competitive advantage provided by patents in individual markets. We rely on patent, trademark, and other intellectual property laws of the United States and other countries to protect our intellectual property rights. In order to maintain the benefits of our patents, we may be required to enforce certain of our patents against infringement through court actions. However, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property or infringing on our patents without our authorization, which may reduce any competitive advantage we have developed. If we have to litigate to protect these rights, any proceedings could be costly, time consuming, could divert management resources, and we may not prevail. We cannot guarantee that any United States or foreign patents, issued or pending, will continue to provide us with any competitive advantage or will not be successfully challenged by third parties. We do not believe that any of our products infringe the valid intellectual property rights of third parties. However, we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our products or services. In that event, we may be subject to significant claims for damages. Effectively policing our intellectual property and patents is time consuming and costly, and the steps 10 TABLE OF CONTENTS taken by us may not prevent infringement of our intellectual property, patents or other proprietary rights in our products, technology and trademarks, particularly in foreign countries where in many instances the local laws or legal systems do not offer the same level of protection as in the United States. Oppositions were filed in December 2009 with the European Patent Office (EPO) contesting the grant by the EPO to the Company of patent number EP-1482815. The Company believes that the EPO properly granted the patent and it intends to respond to the opposition arguments. However, the final resolution of the oppositions could result in the invalidation of the patent or a further limitation of the scope of the patent claims which could affect the competitive value of the patent. The outcome of this dispute would not prevent the Company from practicing its Alginex® LIP solution. Further, the Company filed an infringement action on February 8, 2010 in the United States District Court for South Carolina, Charleston Division, against multiple defendants alleging infringement of the Company’s United States Patent Number 6,725,867. Adversarial proceedings present uncertainties and risks, which could include invalidation of the patent in dispute, a change in the scope of the patent claims, or an adverse determination on the question of infringement, among others. The outcome of this dispute would not prevent the Company from practicing its Alginex® LIP solution. Our financial performance can be significantly impacted by the cost of raw materials and energy. Raw materials are a significant component of the cost of the paper that we manufacture. The cost of wood pulp, which is the largest component of the raw materials that we use, is highly cyclical and can be more volatile than general consumer or producer inflationary changes in the general economy. For instance, during the period from January 2007 through December 2009, the U.S. list price of northern bleached softwood kraft pulp, or NBSK, a representative pulp grade that we use, ranged from a low of $635 per metric ton in April 2009 to a high of $885 per metric ton in August 2008. We periodically enter into agreements with customers under which we agree to supply products at fixed prices. As a consequence, unanticipated increases in the costs of raw materials can significantly impact our financial performance. Even where we do not have fixed-price agreements, we generally cannot pass through increases in raw material costs in a timely manner and in many instances are not able to pass through the entire increase to our customers. Paper manufacturing is energy-intensive. In France and in the United States, availability of energy generally is reliable, although prices can fluctuate significantly based on variations in overall demand. Western Europe is becoming increasingly dependent on energy supplies from the Commonwealth of Independent States, which in the past has demonstrated a willingness to restrict or cut off supplies of energy to certain customers. The volume of oil or gas flowing through pipeline systems that ultimately connect to western Europe also has been cut off or restricted in the past, and such actions also have the capability of adversely impacting the supply of energy to western Europe. In Brazil, where production of electricity is heavily reliant upon hydroelectric plants, availability of electricity can be, and has in the past been, affected by rain variations. Although our Brazilian business currently has a sufficient supply of energy to continue its current level of operation there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient supply in the future. Due to the competitive pricing for most of our products, we typically are unable to fully pass through higher energy costs to our customers. Periodically, when we believe it is advantageous to do so, we enter into agreements to procure a portion of our energy for future periods in order to reduce the uncertainty of future energy costs. However, in recent years this has only marginally slowed the increase in energy costs due to the volatile changes in energy prices we have experienced. Because of the geographic diversity of our business, we are subject to a range of international risks. We have manufacturing facilities in six countries, and sell products in over 90 countries, many of which are emerging and undeveloped markets. Both our manufacturing operations and our sales, depending on their location, are subject to various international business risks, including: • Foreign countries can impose significant tax and other regulatory restrictions on business, including limitations on repatriation of profits and proceeds of liquidated assets. While we evaluate our overall financing plans in the various jurisdictions in which we operate and attempt to manage international 11 TABLE OF CONTENTS movements of cash from and amongst our foreign subsidiaries in a tax-efficient manner, unanticipated international movement of funds due to unexpected changes in our business or in the needs of the business could result in a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. • We are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We utilize a variety of practices to manage this risk, including operating and financing activities and, where considered appropriate, derivative instruments. All derivative instruments we use are either exchange traded or entered into with major financial institutions in order to reduce credit risk and risk of nonperformance by third parties. However, as recent conditions in the financial markets have demonstrated, counterparty risk cannot be eliminated and there can be no assurance that our efforts will be successful. • Changes in foreign currency exchange rates also impact the amount reported in other income (expense), net. For instance, when a non-local currency receivable or payable is not settled in the period in which it is incurred, we are required to record a gain or loss, as applicable, to reflect the impact of any change in the exchange rate as of the end of the period. We also have to reflect the translation rate impact on the carrying value of our foreign assets and liabilities as of the end of each period, which is recorded as Unrealized Translation Adjustment in Other Comprehensive Income. • We are exposed to global as well as regional macroeconomic and microeconomic factors, which can affect demand and pricing for our products; unsettled political and economic conditions; expropriation; import and export tariffs; regulatory controls and restrictions; and inflationary and deflationary economies. • We participate in a joint venture in China that sells our products primarily to Chinese tobacco companies and expect to build a new reconstituted tobacco mill in China. Operations in China entail a number of risks including the need to obtain operating and other permits from the government and to operate within an evolving legal and economic system. The recoverability of deferred tax assets and business tax credits is uncertain Our assumptions, judgments and estimates relative to the value of a deferred tax asset take into account projections of the amount and category of future taxable income. Actual operating results and the underlying amount and category of income in future years could render our current assumptions, judgments and estimate of recoverable net deferred taxes inaccurate. A change in the assumptions, judgments and estimates could cause our actual income tax obligations to be different from our estimates and could materially impact our financial position and results of operations. Our ability to recover certain business tax credits depends on the amount of taxable transactions we have in certain jurisdictions. In Brazil, we are currently generating more value-added tax credits than we utilize. As of December, 31, 2009, these credits totaled $10.1 million. We are applying for a special government action in the state of Rio de Janeiro to enable more rapid utilization of these credits. We expect approval and, if successful, this and other actions should allow our Brazilian operation to utilize more credits than it generates on an annual basis. These credits do not expire; however, if the special action is not obtained, we may record an allowance for substantially all of the current balance. For more information, see Note 8. Other Assets, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We are dependent upon the availability of credit, and changes in interest rates can impact our business. We supplement operating cash flow with bank borrowings under a credit agreement with a syndicate of banks that expires in July 2012. To date, we have been able to access credit when needed and on commercially reasonable terms. However, deterioration of credit markets could have an adverse impact on our ability to negotiate new credit facilities. Constraints on the availability of credit, or the unavailability of credit at reasonable interest rates, would negatively impact our business. Our credit facility contains financial covenants that we have historically fulfilled, and we do not presently anticipate any events that would impair our ability to meet those covenants in the future. However, in the event of material unforeseen events that impact on our financial performance, particularly during a time when 12 TABLE OF CONTENTS we have material amounts of debt, a situation could arise where we are unable to fully draw from our existing credit facility notwithstanding that there is otherwise available capacity. We have a combination of variable and fixed-rate debt consisting of short-term and long-term instruments. We selectively hedge our exposure to interest rate increases on our variable rate long-term debt when we believe that it is practical to do so. We utilize various forms of interest rate hedge agreements, including interest rate swap agreements and forward rate agreements, generally with contractual terms no longer than 24 months. There can be no certainty that our hedging activities will be successful or fully protect us from interest rate exposure. Seasonality can impact our business. Sales of our products in the United States, Europe and Brazil are subject to seasonal fluctuations. In the United States and Europe, customer shutdowns typically occur in July and December and historically have resulted in reduced net sales and operating profit during those two months. Additionally, our mills occasionally shut down equipment to perform additional maintenance during these months, resulting in higher product costs, higher maintenance expenses and reduced operating profit. In Brazil, customer orders are typically lower in December due to a holiday season during much of January and February. As an increasing percentage of our total production capacity and product sales become Asian and southeast Asian based, we will become increasingly subject to seasonal fluctuations that reflect the holiday periods in those regions. We face competition from several capable and established competitors. Our three largest competitors are Delfort Group AG, Julius Glatz GmbH and Miquel y Costas. All three primarily operate from modern and cost-effective mills in western Europe and are capable and long-standing suppliers to the tobacco industry. Further, two, Delfort and Glatz, are privately held and the third, Miquel y Costas, is a closely held public Company. Thus their financial results and other business developments and strategies are not disclosed to the same extent as ours, which provides them some advantage in dealing with customers. Given our mutual concentration in western Europe, which is a declining market and has labor laws that make reducing capacity expensive and slow, excess capacity exists and therefore price competition is acute. All three have good relationships with the multinational cigarette companies, as does the Company. The multinational cigarette companies have been known to use these close relationships to support development of competitive products and facilities, especially when confronted with high value new technologies such as porous plug wrap in the past and potentially LIP today. As a result of the foregoing, the Company primarily faces selling price, sales volume and new product risks from its existing competitors. Currently, fine papers used to produce cigarettes are not exported from available capacity in China to western multinational cigarette companies due to government monopoly control over these producers. Should conditions change in this regard, capacity that currently is operating in China would present a risk to our competitive position in the developed world. In the RTL market, demand is a function of smoke delivery regulations, the cigarette manufacturer’s desire for a uniform and consistent product and the cost of recycling the tobacco by-product scraps relative to the cost of virgin tobacco products. The enhanced capabilities provided by RTL in the area of product design and regulatory compliance are becoming more important to the end-user. We are dependent upon a small number of customers for a significant portion of our sales. The loss of one or more of these customers could have a materially adverse effect on our business. Four customers accounted for over 56% of our net sales in 2009. The loss of one or more of these customers, or a significant reduction in their purchases, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial results. In addition, significant consolidation has occurred among our customers, thereby increasing our dependence upon a fewer number of customers and increasing the negotiating leverage of the customers that survive. Adverse results in the negotiation of any of our significant customer contracts, the terms of which are typically negotiated every one to three years, could significantly impact our financial performance. We are presently the sole supplier of on-line banded cigarette papers for use in LIP cigarettes to Philip Morris-USA for its U.S. requirements under a long-term supply agreement for which Philip Morris-USA is obligated to purchase 100% of its requirements for its proprietary on-line banded cigarette papers for a minimum period of 7 years, and the Company is obligated to supply such product for a minimum of 12 years which began June 1, 2007. This supply agreement is a cost plus arrangement, and Philip 13 TABLE OF CONTENTS Morris-USA has advised us that it disagrees with the manner in which we have determined one aspect of the cost of this product as invoiced in the second, third and fourth quarters of 2009. Philip Morris-USA has exercised its contract right to have an independent party audit our cost calculation. We have provided Philip Morris-USA with the support for our calculation and confirmed that the calculation was made consistent with methodology applied over the life of the supply agreement and in accordance with the terms of the supply agreement. We anticipate that this matter could result in litigation between Philip Morris-USA and us. As of December 31, 2009, the amount disputed was approximately $9 million. Our business is subject to various environmental risks. Our mills are subject to significant federal, state, local and foreign environmental protection laws with respect to air, water and other emissions as well as the disposal of solid waste. We believe we are operating in substantial compliance with these laws and regularly incur capital and operating expenditures in order to assure future compliance. However, these laws may change in the future, which could require changes in our practices or the incurrence of additional capital expenditures, and we may discover aspects of our business that are not in compliance. Violation of these laws can result in the imposition of significant fines and remediation costs. In France, we presently have sufficient authorized capacity for our emissions of carbon dioxide. However, this authorization must be renewed every five years. We cannot predict that we will have sufficient authorized capacity to conduct our operations in France as presently conducted or to do so without having to make substantial capital expenditures in future years. There also is the possibility of regulation of carbon dioxide emissions in the U.S., and legislation to this end has been introduced in Congress. It is not presently possible to assess what, if any, impact such regulations might have on our domestic U.S. operations. We are a member of a potentially responsible party group (Global PRP Group) that has entered into a settlement with the State of New Jersey concerning the remediation of a landfill site in Middlesex County, New Jersey. We have established a reserve of less than $0.1 million that we believe is adequate to cover our liability, but we remain exposed to changes in the State’s requirements and in the estimated costs to complete the remediation in accordance with the settlement terms. In 2008, we received an invitation to participate in the remediation of contamination allegedly identified at a mill complex in Elizabeth, New Jersey that was formerly owned and operated by Kimberly-Clark Corporation. Under the terms of our spin-off from Kimberly-Clark in 1995, we are obligated to indemnify Kimberly-Clark Corporation from certain exposures related to the past and future liabilities of the business spun-off, which would include the Elizabeth, New Jersey mill. We declined the invitation to participate in the proposed clean-up of this mill pending the provision of information demonstrating our responsibility to do so, which to date has not been provided. Although we are not aware of any environmental conditions at any of our facilities that could have a material adverse effect on our financial results, as we restructure and close certain facilities in France and in the U.S. that have been operated over the course of many decades, we may be required to perform additional environmental evaluations that could identify items that might require remediation or other action, the nature, extent and cost of which are not presently known. We are subject to various legal actions and other claims. We regularly are involved in legal actions and other claims arising in the ordinary course of business. Although we do not believe that any of the currently pending actions or claims will have a materially adverse impact on our business or financial condition, we cannot provide any assurances in this regard. Information concerning some of the actions that currently are pending is contained in Note 16, Commitments and Contingencies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and in Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings”. Our expansion plans entail different and additional risks relative to the rest of our business. We intend to build a new reconstituted tobacco mill in the Philippines that would be owned and operated by one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries and to construct a new reconstituted tobacco mill in China through a joint venture in which one of our subsidiaries would have a 50% ownership interest. Building a new mill is a major construction project and entails a number of risks, ranging from the possibility that the contractors and sub-contractors who are expected to build the facility and supply the necessary equipment do not perform as expected, to the possibility that there will be cost overruns or that design defects or omissions cause the mill 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS to perform at less than projected efficiency or at less than projected capacity. In addition, commencement of production at a new mill is time consuming and requires customer testing and acceptance of the products that are produced. Also, while we anticipate sufficient demand for the mill’s output, there can be no assurances that the expected demand will materialize. For more information on our expansion plans, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation. Restructuring activities can significantly impact our business. We began significant restructuring activities in 2006 and 2007 in France and the United States and during 2007 in Brazil that have become part of an overall effort to improve an imbalance between demand for our products and our paper production capacity as well as improve our profitability and the quality of our products. Restructuring of our existing operations involves issues that are complex, time-consuming and expensive and could significantly disrupt our business. The challenges involved in executing these restructuring plans include: • demonstrating to customers that the restructuring activities will not result in adverse changes in service standards or business focus; • consolidating administrative infrastructure and manufacturing operations while maintaining adequate controls throughout the execution of the restructuring; • preserving distribution, sales and other important relationships and resolving potential conflicts that may arise; • minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business activities; • maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees while implementing restructuring programs that often include reductions in the workforce; • coordinating and combining operations, which may be subject to additional constraints imposed by collective bargaining agreements and local laws and regulations; and • achieving the anticipated levels of cost savings and efficiency as a result of the restructuring activities. In the aggregate, we have incurred $117.4 million in restructuring and related impairment expenses from 2006 through December 31, 2009, including $67.0 million in cash-related expenses. As a result of actions taken as of December 31, 2009, we expect future payments of approximately $44 million in cash-related restructuring costs through 2011, of which approximately $11 million of additional cash-related restructuring expense will be recorded over the remaining service period of the affected employees. One portion of our business is dependent upon a single mill. Sales of reconstituted tobacco leaf products represent a substantial portion of our revenues. We presently produce reconstituted tobacco leaf at only one facility located in France. Although reasonable measures have been taken to minimize the risk of a casualty event at this facility, its loss or the interruption of operations for a significant length of time could have a material adverse effect on our business. This risk will be further reduced once the planned facility to be constructed in the Philippines is completed and in operation. Our RTL business is also subject to competitive risk from lower cost natural tobacco. 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 