Item 1A. Risk FactorsFactors That May Affect Future ResultsMany factors outside our control could impact future financial results. While not an exhaustive list, the following important factors could cause our actual results for 2012 and beyond to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements we have made.Our business can be impacted by governmental actions relating to tobacco products.In 2011, more than 93% of our net sales were from products used by the tobacco industry in making cigarettes or other tobacco products. Governments around the world, particularly in the United States and western Europe, increasingly are regulating the advertising, promotion, sale and use of tobacco products as a result of reports and speculation with respect to the possible harmful physical effects of cigarette smoking, second-hand smoke and use of tobacco products. In addition, tobacco products are heavily taxed in many jurisdictions. Cigarette consumption in the United States and western Europe has declined, in part due to these actions, which, in turn, have decreased demand for our products in these regions. In addition, litigation is pending against the major manufacturers of consumer tobacco products seeking damages for health problems allegedly resulting from the use of tobacco in various forms. It is not possible to predict the outcome of such litigation or what effect adverse developments in pending or future litigation may have on the tobacco industry or its demand for our products, but in the past, increases in taxes and litigation have adversely affected demand. In the U.S., the regulatory jurisdiction of the federal Food and Drug Administration was extended in 2009 to include tobacco products, which are now subject to product component disclosure regulations, new controls on ingredients, and additional restrictions about marketing and labeling. In the European Union, the Tobacco Products Directive regulates the content, effects, marketing and labeling of tobacco products, and the ongoing phase-in of the REACH regulation (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of Chemical Substances) may further restrict product ingredients. Additionally, the World Health Organization is actively promoting tobacco regulation, and other countries worldwide are in the process of adopting some or all of these restrictions. The impact of these legislative initiatives on the production and sale of our and our customers' products is not presently known.9Table of ContentsOur technological advantages are unlikely to continue indefinitely.We consider our intellectual property and patents to be a material asset. We have been at the forefront of developing new products and technology within our industry and have patented several of our innovations, particularly with regard to cigarette paper used to produce LIP cigarettes. This has enhanced our ability to sell products and to provide added function and other value to the products we sell allowing them to command higher margins. This advantage has also enabled us to license our patents and know-how and earn royalty income from competitors and customers. Presently, we are seeing evidence of increasing efforts and activity by our competitors to develop and sell competitive products, particularly in the area of papers used for lower ignition propensity applications. Over time, we expect our competitors to develop competitive products that are designed to avoid our patents or to license our innovations. Ultimately, our patents will expire. As we expand our production of LIP papers and RTL to more locations and countries, the risk of the loss of proprietary trade secrets will increase, and any significant loss would result in the loss of the competitive advantages provided by such trade secrets. While we cannot predict the impact or the timing of these trends and eventualities, they likely will reduce our sales and margins from the levels that we otherwise would have achieved.Effectively policing our domestic and international intellectual property and patent rights is costly and may not be successful.Our portfolio of granted patents varies by country, which could have an impact on any competitive advantage provided by patents in individual markets. We rely on patent, trademark, and other intellectual property laws of the United States and other countries to protect our intellectual property rights. In order to maintain the benefits of our patents, we may be required to enforce certain of our patents against infringement through judicial or administrative actions. However, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property or infringing on our patents without our authorization, which may reduce any competitive advantage we have developed. If we have to litigate to protect these rights, any proceedings could be costly, time consuming, could divert management resources, and we may not prevail. We cannot guarantee that any United States or foreign patents, issued or pending, will continue to provide us with any competitive advantage or will not be successfully challenged by third parties. We do not believe that any of our products infringe the valid intellectual property rights of third parties. However, we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our products or services. In that event, we may be subject to significant claims for damages. Effectively policing our intellectual property and patents is time-consuming and costly, and the steps taken by us may not prevent infringement of our intellectual property, patents or other proprietary rights in our products, technology and trademarks, particularly in foreign countries where in many instances the local laws or legal systems do not offer the same level of protection as in the United States.In December 2009, Miquel y Costas S.A., delfortgroup AG, and Societe Papeterie Leman SAS filed Notices of Opposition to the European Patent Office's, or EPO, grant of European Patent EP 1482815. The oppositions filed by Societe Papeterie Leman and delfortgroup contend that the claim language regarding the film-forming material to have a certain viscosity was not sufficiently described, that the claims were not patentable due to a prior art reference, a reference that was disclosed by SWM to the examiner and cited by him in granting the patent, and lack of inventive step. Societe Papeterie Leman further alleged that claim 1 is not sufficiently definite and is therefore invalid. Miquel y Costas claims that the patent lacks novelty as to the film-former gum Arabic, that claim 1 of the patent lacks sufficient disclosure and that claim 1 also lacks novelty. The Company will continue to defend the grant of this patent by taking necessary actions including responding to further submissions by the opponents. Once the EPO considers that all positions have been fully briefed, it may hold a hearing to assist it in reaching a final conclusion on the oppositions. There is no mandated timetable by which the EPO must reach a decision. The outcome of this dispute would not prevent the Company from practicing its Alginex® LIP solution. The patent remains in effect and fully enforceable while the opposition proceedings are pending. As a result of a world-wide LIP license agreement reached with SWM in October 2011, delfortgroup withdrew from this proceeding. The action remained open with the other parties. On November 12, 2010, the EPO issued a Notice of Decision to Grant SWM European Patent No. 1333729. On December 8, 2010, Julius Glatz GmbH filed a Notice of Opposition to the grant of this patent. In September 2011, Societe Papeterie Leman, Miquel y Costas and delfortgroup each filed opposition papers and Glatz supplemented its previous filing. We expect that the EPO will open an opposition proceeding. The Company believes that the EPO properly granted the patent and it intends to defend the patent should an opposition proceeding be opened. As a result of its world-wide LIP license agreement with SWM, delfortgroup withdrew from this proceeding. The action remained open with the other parties.The Company filed an infringement action on February 8, 2010 in the United States District Court for South Carolina, Charleston Division, against multiple defendants alleging infringement of the Company's United States Patent Number 6,725,867 and a First Amended Complaint on June 1, 2010 which added claims of alleged infringement under United States Patent Number 5,878,753 and further specifies products we believe violate our patents. Adversarial proceedings present uncertainties and risks, which could include invalidation of the patent in dispute, a change in the scope of the patent claims, or an adverse determination on the question 10Table of Contentsof infringement, among others. As was their right under the applicable statute, the defendants requested and the court granted a motion staying this civil action until completion of the International Trade Commission, or ITC, proceedings. The civil action may be restarted once the ITC action is concluded. We believe the outcome of this dispute would not prevent the Company from practicing its Alginex® LIP solution. As a result of the world-wide LIP license agreement, SWM and delfortgroup jointly took action to dismiss delfortgroup from this action. The case is expected to remain open with the other parties, but will remain stayed pending the final determination of the ITC proceeding.On December 17, 2010, the Company filed a complaint with the ITC against multiple respondents, including Julius Glatz, delfortgroup, Astra Tobacco and LipTEC based on their unlawful importation into the United States, the sale for importation, and the sale within the United States after importation of certain paper wrappers used in manufacture of reduced ignition proclivity cigarettes and products that infringe, are made or produced under, or by means of, a process covered by, one or more of claims 36, 43, and 45 of United States Patent No. 6,725,867 and claims 1-6, 10-18, and 22-25 of United States Patent No. 5,878,753. We amended our complaint to add new respondents including Dosal Tobacco Corp.; Farmer's Tobacco Co.; S M Brands, Inc.; Tantus Tobacco LLC; KenX Worldwide, LLC; Dr. Franz Feurstein GmbH and Paperfabrik Wattens GmbH Co. KG. Our complaint requests the ITC to issue an exclusion order and cease and desist order. The ITC opened an investigation in January 2011, and held hearings October 31, 2011 through November 8, 2011. An initial unfavorable decision was issued by the Administrative Law Judge on February 4, 2012, which we will seek to have reviewed by the full Commission, from which a Target Date for decision is May 29, 2012. During this process, we anticipate that there will be numerous motions, orders and other procedural matters decided that are the normal course of an adversarial process. Absent any of these events having a material impact on the likely outcome of the proceeding, we would not expect to comment on such matters publicly. The outcome of this action will not impact the Company's right to produce and sell its flagship Alginex® papers for LIP cigarettes. delfortgroup requested re-examinations by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, USPTO, of two of our patents: U.S. Patent No. 6,725,867 and U.S. Patent No. 5,878,753. After a number of initial rejections, the USPTO opened an interpartes re-examination of Patent No. 6,725,867 and an ex-parte re-examination of Patent No. 5,878,753. The USPTO issued an initial office action regarding Patent No. 6,725, 867 on March 17, 2011 that confirmed certain claims and that rejected other claims. The timing of the next office action is at the discretion of the USPTO. There can be additional preliminary office actions or a final office action. The patent remains valid and enforceable during the pendency of the re-examination process unless and until a final order of cancellation is issued, which may then be appealed to the Patent Board at the USPTO and thereafter to the U.S. Federal Circuit. The USPTO issued a Notice of Intent to Confirm Patent No. 5,878,753 in September 2011 and on November 1, 2011, the USPTO issued an Ex Parte Reexamination Certificate confirming all claims of Patent No. 5,878,753.In July 2011, delfortgroup filed an action in the High Court of Justice, Chancery Division, Patents Court in the United Kingdom (UK) seeking a declaration that European Patents (UK) Nos. 0-870-437 and 1-333-729 are each invalid and petitioned for an order that they each be revoked. delfortgroup further petitioned the Court for a declaration under s. 71 Patents Act of 1977 or under the Court's inherent jurisdiction for a declaration that the importation into and sale in the UK of paper wrappers made pursuant to a disclosed process purportedly used by delfortgroup would not constitute an infringement of any of claims 1 to 9 of European Patent (UK) No. 1-333-729. As a result its world-wide LIP license agreement between SWM and the delfortgroup, this proceeding was terminated.On October 24, 2011, delfortgroup and SWM announced a world-wide non-exclusive patent license agreement that settles their patent disputes over print banded lower ignition propensity papers. Pursuant to this agreement, delfortgroup made a payment to SWM for past sales of LIP print banded product, will pay SWM a minimum annual royalty of $4 million over the next five years which began with 2011, and a running royalty for the life of the license agreement. This license agreement also settles all of the litigation and administrative proceedings pending between delfortgroup and SWM and, as a result, the proceedings in the U.K. have been terminated. delfortgroup has also withdrawn from the USPTO re-examination proceedings and European patent opposition proceedings and has been dismissed from the civil infringement action in South Carolina . 11Table of ContentsOur financial performance can be significantly impacted by the cost of raw materials and energy.Raw materials are a significant component of the cost of the paper that we manufacture. The cost of wood pulp, which is the largest component of the raw materials that we use, is highly cyclical and can be more volatile than general consumer or producer inflationary changes in the general economy. For instance, during the period from January 2009 through December 2011, the U.S. list price of northern bleached softwood kraft pulp, or NBSK, a representative pulp grade that we use, ranged from a low of $635 per metric ton in April 2009 to a high of $1,010 per metric ton in June 2010. We periodically enter into agreements with customers under which we agree to supply products at fixed prices. As a consequence, unanticipated increases in the costs of raw materials can significantly impact our financial performance. Even where we do not have fixed-price agreements, we generally cannot pass through increases in raw material costs in a timely manner and in many instances are not able to pass through the entire increase to our customers.Paper manufacturing is energy-intensive. In France, Poland and in the United States, availability of energy generally is reliable, although prices can fluctuate significantly based on variations in overall demand. Western Europe is becoming increasingly dependent on energy supplies from the Commonwealth of Independent States, which in the past has demonstrated a willingness to restrict or cut off supplies of energy to certain customers. The volume of oil or gas flowing through pipeline systems that ultimately connect to western Europe also has been cut off or restricted in the past, and such actions also have the capability of adversely impacting the supply of energy to western Europe. In Brazil, where production of electricity is heavily reliant upon hydroelectric plants, availability of electricity can be, and has in the past been, affected by rain variations. Although our Brazilian business currently has a sufficient supply of energy to continue its current level of operation, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient supply in the future. Due to the competitive pricing for most of our products, we typically are unable to fully pass through higher energy costs to our customers. Periodically, when we believe it is advantageous to do so, we enter into agreements to procure a portion of our energy for future periods in order to reduce the uncertainty of future energy costs. However, in recent years this has only marginally slowed the increase in energy costs due to the volatile changes in energy prices we have experienced.12Table of ContentsBecause of the geographic diversity of our business, we are subject to a range of international risks.We have manufacturing facilities in seven countries, and sell products in over 90 countries, many of which are emerging and undeveloped markets. Both our manufacturing operations and our sales, depending on their location, are subject to various international business risks, including:•Foreign countries can impose significant tax and other regulatory restrictions on business, including limitations on repatriation of profits and proceeds of liquidated assets. While we evaluate our overall financing plans in the various jurisdictions in which we operate and attempt to manage international movements of cash from and amongst our foreign subsidiaries in a tax-efficient manner, unanticipated international movement of funds due to unexpected changes in our business or in the needs of the business could result in a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations.•We are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We utilize a variety of practices to manage this risk, including operating and financing activities and, where considered appropriate, derivative instruments. All derivative instruments we use are either exchange traded or entered into with major financial institutions in order to reduce credit risk and risk of nonperformance by third parties. Counterparty risk cannot be eliminated and there can be no assurance that our efforts will be successful.•Changes in foreign currency exchange rates also impact the amount reported in other income (expense), net. For instance, when a non-local currency receivable or payable is not settled in the period in which it is incurred, we are required to record a gain or loss, as applicable, to reflect the impact of any change in the exchange rate as of the end of the period. We also have to reflect the translation rate impact on the carrying value of our foreign assets and liabilities as of the end of each period, which is recorded as Unrealized Translation Adjustment in Other Comprehensive Income.•We are exposed to global as well as regional macroeconomic and microeconomic factors, which can affect demand and pricing for our products, including: unsettled political and economic conditions; expropriation; import and export tariffs; regulatory controls and restrictions; and inflationary and deflationary economies. Risks inherent in international operations also include risks associated with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and local anti-bribery law compliance. •We participate in two joint ventures in China. One sells our products primarily to Chinese tobacco companies. The second joint venture is building a new reconstituted tobacco mill in China. Operations in China entail a number of risks including international and domestic political risks, the need to obtain operating and other permits from the government and to operate within an evolving legal and economic system.We are dependent upon the availability of credit, and changes in interest rates can impact our business.We supplement operating cash flow with bank borrowings under a credit agreement with a syndicate of banks that expires in May 2016. To date, we have been able to access credit when needed and on commercially reasonable terms. However, deterioration of credit markets could have an adverse impact on our ability to negotiate new credit facilities. Constraints on the availability of credit, or the unavailability of credit at reasonable interest rates, would negatively impact our business.Our credit facility contains financial covenants that we have historically fulfilled, and we do not presently anticipate any events that would impair our ability to meet those covenants in the future. However, in the event of material unforeseen events that impact on our financial performance, particularly during a time when we have material amounts of debt, a situation could arise where we are unable to fully draw from our existing credit facility notwithstanding that there is otherwise available capacity.We have a combination of variable and fixed-rate debt consisting of short-term and long-term instruments. We selectively hedge our exposure to interest rate increases on our variable rate long-term debt when we believe that it is practical to do so. We utilize various forms of interest rate hedge agreements, including interest rate swap agreements and forward rate agreements, generally with contractual terms no longer than 24 months. There can be no certainty that our hedging activities will be successful or fully protect us from interest rate exposure.13Table of ContentsSeasonality can impact our business.Sales of our products in the United States, Europe and Brazil are subject to seasonal fluctuations. In the United States and Europe, customer shutdowns typically occur in July and December and historically have resulted in reduced net sales and operating profit during those two months. Additionally, our mills occasionally shut down equipment to perform additional maintenance during these months, resulting in higher product costs, higher maintenance expenses and reduced operating profit. In Brazil, customer orders are typically lower in December due to a holiday season during much of January and February. As an increasing percentage of our total production capacity and product sales become Asian and southeast Asian based, we will become increasingly subject to seasonal fluctuations that reflect the holiday periods in those regions.We face competition from several established competitors.Our three largest competitors are delfortgroup AG, Julius Glatz GmbH and Miquel y Costas. All three primarily operate from modern and cost-effective mills in western Europe and are capable and long-standing suppliers to the tobacco industry. Further, two, Delfort and Glatz, are privately held and the third, Miquel y Costas, is a closely held public company. Thus their financial results and other business developments and strategies are not disclosed to the same extent as ours, which provides them some advantage in dealing with customers. Given our mutual concentration in western Europe, which is a declining market and has labor laws that make reducing capacity expensive and slow, excess capacity exists and therefore price competition is acute. All three have good relationships with the multinational cigarette companies, as does the Company. The multinational cigarette companies have been known to use these close relationships to support development of competitive products and facilities, especially when confronted with high value new technologies such as porous plug wrap in the past and potentially LIP today. As a result of the foregoing, the Company primarily faces selling price, sales volume and new product risks from its existing competitors. Currently, fine papers used to produce cigarettes are not exported from available capacity in China to western multinational cigarette companies due to government taxes which limit price competitiveness. Should conditions change in this regard, capacity that currently is operating in China would present a risk to our competitive position in the developed world. In the RTL market, demand is a function of smoke delivery regulations, the cigarette manufacturer's desire for a uniform and consistent product and the cost of recycling the tobacco by-product scraps relative to the cost of virgin tobacco products. The enhanced capabilities provided by RTL in the area of product design and regulatory compliance are becoming more important to the end-user.We are dependent upon a small number of customers for a significant portion of our sales. The loss of one or more of these customers could have a materially adverse effect on our business.Four customers accounted for over 54% of our net sales in 2011. The loss of one or more of these customers, or a significant reduction in their purchases, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial results. In addition, significant consolidation has occurred among our customers, thereby increasing our dependence upon a fewer number of customers and increasing the negotiating leverage of the customers that survive. Adverse results in the negotiation of any of our significant customer contracts, the terms of which are typically negotiated every one to three years, could significantly impact our financial performance. We are presently the sole supplier of on-line banded cigarette papers for use in LIP cigarettes to Philip Morris-USA for its U.S. requirements under a long-term supply agreement for which Philip Morris-USA is obligated to purchase 100% of its requirements for its proprietary on-line banded cigarette papers for a minimum period of 7 years, and the Company is obligated to supply such product for a minimum of 12 years which began June 1, 2007. This supply agreement is a cost plus arrangement, and Philip Morris-USA began advising us in 2009 that it disagrees with the manner in which we have determined one aspect of the cost of this product as invoiced. Philip Morris-USA has exercised its contract right to have an independent party audit our cost calculation. We have provided Philip Morris-USA with the support for our calculation and confirmed that the calculation was made consistent with methodology applied over the life of the supply agreement and in accordance with the terms of the supply agreement. This matter could result in litigation between Philip Morris-USA and us. Currently, the amount disputed is approximately $24.4 million.Our business is subject to various environmental risks.Our mills are subject to significant federal, state, local and foreign environmental protection laws with respect to air, water and other emissions as well as the disposal of solid waste. We believe we are operating in substantial compliance with these laws and regularly incur capital and operating expenditures in order to assure future compliance. However, these laws may change in the future, which could require changes in our practices or the incurrence of additional capital expenditures, and we may discover aspects of our business that are not in compliance. Violation of these laws can result in the imposition of significant fines and remediation costs. In France, we presently have sufficient authorized capacity for our emissions of carbon dioxide. However, this authorization must be renewed every five years. We cannot predict that we will have sufficient authorized capacity to conduct our operations in France as presently conducted or to do so without having to make substantial capital expenditures in future years. 14Table of ContentsThere also is the possibility of regulation of carbon dioxide emissions in the U.S. It is not presently possible to assess what, if any, impact such regulations might have on our domestic U.S. operations.We are a member of a potentially responsible party group (Global PRP Group) that has entered into a settlement with the State of New Jersey concerning the remediation of a landfill site in Middlesex County, New Jersey. We have established a reserve of less than $0.1 million that we believe is adequate to cover our liability, but we remain exposed to changes in the State's requirements and in the estimated costs to complete the remediation in accordance with the settlement terms. In 2008, we received an invitation to participate in the remediation of contamination allegedly identified at a mill complex in Elizabeth, New Jersey that was formerly owned and operated by Kimberly-Clark Corporation. Under the terms of our spin-off from Kimberly-Clark in 1995, we are obligated to indemnify Kimberly-Clark Corporation from certain exposures related to the past and future liabilities of the business spun-off, which would include the Elizabeth, New Jersey mill. We declined the invitation to participate in the proposed clean-up of this mill pending the provision of information demonstrating our responsibility to do so, which to date has not been provided.Although we are not aware of any environmental conditions at any of our facilities that could have a material adverse effect on our financial results, as we sell closed facilities in France and in the U.S. that have been operated over the course of many decades, we may be required to perform additional environmental evaluations that could identify items that might require remediation or other action, the nature, extent and cost of which are not presently known.We are subject to various legal actions and other claims.We regularly are involved in legal actions and other claims arising in the ordinary course of business. Although we do not believe that any of the currently pending actions or claims will have a materially adverse impact on our business or financial condition, we cannot provide any assurances in this regard. Information concerning some of the actions that currently are pending is contained in Note 16, Commitments and Contingencies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and in Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings”.Our expansion plans entail different and additional risks relative to the rest of our business.In early 2011, we announced suspension of construction of a wholly-owned reconstituted tobacco mill in the Philippines and plans to construct a new reconstituted tobacco mill in China through a joint venture in which one of our subsidiaries has a 50% ownership interest. Building a new mill is a major construction project and entails a number of risks, ranging from the possibility that the contractors and sub-contractors who are expected to build the facility and supply the necessary equipment do not perform as expected, to the possibility that there will be cost overruns or that design defects or omissions cause the mill to perform at less than projected efficiency or at less than projected capacity. In addition, commencement of production at a new mill is time consuming and requires customer testing and acceptance of the products that are produced. Also, while we anticipate sufficient demand for the mill's output, there can be no assurances that the expected demand will materialize. For more information on our expansion plans, see Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation.15Table of ContentsRestructuring activities can significantly impact our business.We began significant restructuring activities in 2006 and 2007 in France and the United States and during 2007 in Brazil that have become part of an overall effort to improve an imbalance between demand for our products and our paper production capacity as well as improve our profitability and the quality of our products. Although now largely completed, restructuring of our existing operations involves issues that are complex, time-consuming and expensive and could significantly disrupt our business. The challenges involved in executing the remaining actions that are part of our restructuring plans include:•demonstrating to customers that the restructuring activities will not result in adverse changes in service standards or business focus;•consolidating administrative infrastructure and manufacturing operations while maintaining adequate controls throughout the execution of the restructuring;•preserving distribution, sales and other important relationships and resolving potential conflicts that may arise;•minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business activities;•maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees while implementing restructuring programs that often include reductions in the workforce;•coordinating and combining operations, which may be subject to additional constraints imposed by collective bargaining agreements and local laws and regulations; and•achieving the anticipated levels of cost savings and efficiency as a result of the restructuring activities.In the aggregate including continuing and discontinued operations, we have incurred $151.5 million in restructuring and related impairment expenses from 2006 through December 31, 2011, including $91.4 million in cash-related expenses. As a result of actions taken as of December 31, 2011, we expect future payments of approximately $11 million in cash-related restructuring costs through 2017.One portion of our business is dependent upon a single mill.Sales of reconstituted tobacco leaf products represent a substantial portion of our revenues. We presently produce reconstituted tobacco leaf at only one facility located in France. Although reasonable measures have been taken to minimize the risk of a casualty event at this facility, its loss or the interruption of operations for a significant length of time could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our RTL business is also subject to competitive risk from lower cost natural tobacco.A failure of a key information technology system or process could adversely affect our business.We rely extensively on information technology systems, some of which are managed by third-party service providers, to analyze, process and manage transactions and data. We also rely heavily on the integrity of this data in managing our business. We or our service providers could experience errors, interruptions, delays or cessations of service in key portions of our information technology infrastructure, which could significantly disrupt our operations and be expensive time-consuming and resource-intensive to remedy.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.16Table of Contents