Risk factors, as outlined below, provide additional information related to risks associated with competition in the mortgage banking industry. Employees As of December 31, 2005, we had a total of 989 full-time, part-time, temporary and contract employees. Management believes that relations with its employees are good. We are not a party to any collective bargaining agreements. Revisions in Policies and Strategies Our board of directors has approved our investment and operating policies and strategies. Our core operations involve the acquisition and origination of mortgages and their subsequent securitization and sale. We also act as a warehouse lender providing financing facilities to mortgage originators. These operations and their associated policies and strategies, are further described herein. Our board of directors has delegated asset/liability management to the Asset/Liability Committee, or "ALCO," which reports to the board of directors at least quarterly. See a further discussion of ALCO in Item 7. "Management's Discussion of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Item 7A. "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk." Any of our policies, strategies and activities may be modified or waived by our board of directors without stockholder consent. Developments in the market, which affect the policies and strategies mentioned herein or which change our assessment of the market, may cause our board of directors to revise our policies and financing strategies. We have elected to qualify as a REIT for tax purposes. We have adopted certain compliance guidelines to ensure we maintain our REIT status which include limitations on the acquisition, holding and sale of certain assets. The long-term investment operations primarily invest in Alt-A and multi-family mortgages. The long-term investment operation does not limit the proportion of its assets that may be invested in each type of mortgage. 14 We closely monitor our acquisition and investment in mortgage assets and the sources of our income, including income or expense from interest rate risk management strategies, to ensure at all times that we maintain our qualifications as a REIT. We have developed certain accounting systems and testing procedures to facilitate our ongoing compliance with the REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. No changes in our investment policies, including credit criteria for mortgage asset investments, may be made without the approval of our board of directors. We may at times and on terms that our board of directors deems appropriate: •Issue senior securities – In 2004, we issued 2,000,000 shares of our 9.375% Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, liquidation preference $25.00 per share. In 2004 and 2005, we issued an aggregate of 4,300,000 shares and 71,200 shares respectively, of our 9.125% Series C Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, liquidation preference $25.00 per share; •Borrow money – We finance our operations in large part through the issuance of CMOs and short-term borrowings under reverse repurchase agreements; •Make loans to other persons – The warehouse lending operations provide financing to affiliated companies and to approved non-affiliated clients, some of which are correspondents of the mortgage operations, to finance mortgages during the time from the closing of the mortgages to their sale or other settlement with pre-approved investors; •Engage in the purchase and sale of investments – In connection with the issuance of mortgage-backed securities by our mortgage operations in the form of REMICs, our long-term investment operations may retain senior or subordinated securities on a short- or long-term basis; •Repurchase or otherwise reacquire our shares or other securities in the future – During 2003, we did not repurchase any shares of common stock. In February of 2004, the share repurchase program was cancelled by our board of directors. During 2005, we adopted a repurchase plan to repurchase up to 5.0 million shares of our common stock in the open market. As of the date of the filing of this report, we have not repurchased any shares of common stock; and •Issue common stock and other securities – During 2005 and 2004, we issued an aggregate of 363,700 shares and 18.4 million shares of common stock, respectively. During 2005, we formed four wholly-owned trust subsidiaries for the purposes of issuing an aggregate of $96.3 million of trust preferred securities. We may also offer securities in exchange of property, invest in securities of other issuers for the purpose of exercising control and underwrite the securities of other issuers, although we have not done so in the past three years and have no present intention to do so. Historically, we have and intend to continue to distribute annual reports to our stockholders, including financial statements audited by independent auditors, describing our current business and strategy. ITEM 1.A. RISK FACTORS Some of the following risk factors relate to a discussion of our assets. For additional information on our asset categories refer to Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," "Note B—Mortgages Held-for-Sale," "Note C—CMO Collateral," "Note D—Mortgages Held-for-Investment," and "Note E—Allowance for Loan Losses" and in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. Risks Related To Our Businesses If we are unable to generate sufficient liquidity we may be unable to conduct our operations as planned. If we cannot generate sufficient liquidity, we may be unable to continue to grow our operations, grow our asset base, maintain our current interest rate risk management policies and pay dividends. We have traditionally derived our liquidity from the following primary sources: •financing facilities provided to us by others to acquire or originate mortgage assets; •whole loan sales and securitizations of acquired or originated mortgages; •our issuance of equity and debt securities; 15 •excess cash flow from our long-term mortgage portfolio; and •earnings from operations. We cannot assure you that any of these alternatives will be available to us, or if available, that we will be able to negotiate favorable terms. Our ability to meet our long-term liquidity requirements is subject to the renewal of our credit and repurchase facilities and/or obtaining other sources of financing, including additional debt or equity from time to time. Any decision by our lenders and/or investors to make additional funds available to us in the future will depend upon a number of factors, such as our compliance with the terms of our existing credit arrangements, our financial performance, industry and market trends in our various businesses, the lenders' and/or investors' own resources and policies concerning loans and investments, and the relative attractiveness of alternative investment or lending opportunities. If we cannot raise cash by selling debt or equity securities, we may be forced to sell our assets at unfavorable prices or discontinue various business activities. Our inability to access the capital markets could have a negative impact on our growth of taxable income and also our ability to pay dividends. Any significant margin calls under our financing facilities would adversely affect our liquidity and may adversely affect our financial results. During periods of disruption in the financial markets, the mortgage industry may experience substantial turmoil as a result of a lack of liquidity in the secondary markets. At such times, investors may be unwilling to purchase interests in securitizations due, in part, to: •the lack of financing to acquire these securitization interests; •the widening of returns expected by institutional investors on securitization interests over the prevailing Treasury rate; and •market uncertainty. As a result, during these periods, many mortgage originators, including us, may be unable to access the securitization market on favorable terms. This may result in some companies declaring bankruptcy. Some companies, like us, may be required to sell loans on a whole loan basis and liquidate holdings of mortgage-backed securities to repay short-term borrowings. However, the large amount of mortgages available for sale on a whole loan basis may create an oversupply and affect the pricing offered for these mortgages, which in turn may reduce the value of the collateral underlying the financing facilities. Therefore, many providers of financing facilities may initiate margin calls. Margin calls may result when our lenders evaluate the market value of the collateral securing our financing facilities and require us to provide them with additional equity or collateral to secure our borrowings. Our financing facilities are short-term borrowings and in the event of a market disruption, many traditional providers of financing facilities may be unwilling to provide facilities on favorable terms, or at all. Our current financing facilities continue to be short-term borrowings and we expect this to continue. If we cannot renew or replace maturing borrowings, we may have to sell, on a whole loan basis, the loans securing these facilities, which, depending upon market conditions may result in substantial losses. Increased levels of early prepayments of mortgages may accelerate our amortization expenses and decrease our net interest income. Mortgage prepayments generally increase on our ARMs when fixed mortgage interest rates fall below the then-current interest rates on outstanding ARMs or fully indexed ARMs. Prepayments on mortgages are also affected by the terms and credit grades of the mortgages, their interest rate reset date, conditions in the financial markets, housing appreciation and general economic conditions. If we acquire mortgages at a premium and they are subsequently prepaid, we must expense the unamortized premium at the time of the prepayment. We could possibly lose the opportunity to earn interest at a higher rate over the expected life of the mortgage. Also, if prepayments on mortgages increase when interest rates are declining, our net interest income may decrease if we cannot reinvest the prepayments in mortgage assets with comparable net interest margins. If prepayment rates differ from our projections, we may experience a change in net earnings due to a change in the ratio of derivatives to the related mortgages. This may result in a reduction of cash flows from our mortgage loans net of financing costs as we have a higher percentage of derivative costs related to these loans than originally projected. We generally acquire mortgages on a servicing released basis, meaning we acquire both the mortgages and the rights to service them. This strategy requires us to pay a higher purchase price or premium for the mortgages. If the mortgages that we 16 acquire at a premium prepay faster than originally projected GAAP requires us to write down the remaining capitalized premium amounts at a faster speed than was originally projected, which would decrease our current net interest income. Interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our operating results. Our operations, as a mortgage loan acquirer and originator, an investor in mortgage loans or a warehouse lender, may be adversely affected by rising and falling interest rates. Interest rates have been historically low over the past few years; however increases in interest rates may discourage potential borrowers from refinancing mortgages, borrowing to purchase homes or seeking second mortgages. For example, during 2005, the Federal Reserve Bank increased short term rates a total of 200 basis points. This has decreased the amount of mortgages available to be acquired or originated by our mortgage operations and has decreased the demand for repurchase financing provided by our warehouse lending operations, which adversely affects our operating results if we are not able to commensurately increase our market share. If short-term interest rates exceed long-term interest rates, there is a higher risk of increased loan prepayments, as borrowers may seek to refinance their fixed and adjustable rate mortgages at lower long-term fixed interest rates. Increased loan prepayments could lead to a reduction in the number of loans in our long-term mortgage portfolio and reduce our net interest income. Rising interest rates may also increase delinquencies, foreclosures and losses on our adjustable rate mortgages. We are subject to the risk of rising mortgage interest rates between the time we commit to purchase mortgages at a fixed price through the issuance of individual, bulk or other rate-locks and the time we sell or securitize those mortgages. An increase in interest rates will generally result in a decrease in the market value of mortgages that we have committed to purchase at a fixed price, but have not been sold or securitized. As a result, we may record a smaller gain, or even a loss, upon the sale or securitization of those mortgages. If we are unable to complete securitizations or if we experience delayed mortgage loan sales or securitization closings, we could face a liquidity shortage which would adversely affect our operating results. We rely significantly upon securitizations to generate cash proceeds to repay borrowings and replenish our borrowing capacity. If there is a delay in a securitization closing or any reduction in our ability to complete securitizations we may be required to utilize other sources of financing, which, if available at all, may not be on similar terms. In addition, delays in closing mortgage sales or securitizations of our mortgages increase our risk by exposing us to credit and interest rate risks for this extended period of time. Furthermore, gains on sales from certain of our securitizations represent a significant portion of the taxable income dividend to the REIT from our taxable REIT subsidiary, IFC. Several factors could affect our ability to complete securitizations of our mortgages, including: •conditions in the securities and secondary markets; •credit quality of the mortgages acquired or originated through our mortgage operations; •volume of our mortgage loan acquisitions and originations; •our ability to obtain credit enhancements; and •lack of investors purchasing higher risk components of the securities. If we are unable to sell a sufficient number of mortgages at a premium or profitably securitize a significant number of our mortgages in a particular financial reporting period, then we could experience lower net earnings or a loss for that period, which could have a material adverse affect on our operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to profitably securitize or sell our loans on a whole loan basis, or at all. The market for first loss risk securities, which are securities that take the first loss when mortgages are not paid by the borrowers, is generally limited. In connection with our REMIC securitizations, we may not sell all securities subjecting us to a first loss risk. If we do not sell these securities, we may hold them for an extended period, subjecting us to a first loss risk. A prolonged economic downturn or recession would likely result in a reduction of our mortgage origination activity which could adversely affect our financial results. The United States economy has undergone in the past and may in the future, undergo, a period of economic slowdown, which some observers view as a recession. An economic downturn or a recession may have a significant adverse impact on our operations and our financial condition. For example, a reduction in new mortgages may adversely affect our ability to maintain 17 or expand our long-term mortgage portfolio, our principal means of generating earnings. In addition, a decline in new mortgage activity may likely result in reduced activity for our warehouse lending operations and our long-term investment operations. In the case of our mortgage operations, a decline in mortgage activity may result in fewer loans that meet its criteria for purchase and securitization or sale, thus resulting in a reduction in interest income and fees and gain on sale of loans. We may also experience larger than previously reported losses on our long-term mortgage portfolio due to a higher level of defaults or foreclosures or higher loss rates on our mortgages. We may experience reduced net earnings or losses if our liabilities reprice at different rates than our assets. Our principal source of revenue is net interest income or net interest spread from our long-term mortgage portfolio, which is the difference between the interest we earn on our interest earning assets and the interest we pay on our interest bearing liabilities. The rates we pay on our borrowings are independent of the rates we earn on our assets and may be subject to more frequent periodic rate adjustments. Therefore, we could experience a decrease in net earnings or a loss because the interest rates on our borrowings could increase faster than the interest rates on our assets, if the increased borrowing costs are not offset by reduced cash payments on derivatives recorded in other non-interest income. If our net interest spread becomes negative, we will be paying more interest on our borrowings than we will be earning on our assets and we will be exposed to a risk of loss. Additionally, the rates paid on our borrowings and the rates received on our assets may be based upon different indices. Our long-term mortgage portfolio includes mortgages that are one-, three- and six-month LIBOR and one-year LIBOR hybrid ARMs. These are mortgages with fixed interest rates for an initial period of time, after which they begin bearing interest based upon short-term interest rate indices and adjust periodically. We generally fund mortgages with adjustable interest rate borrowings having interest rates that are indexed to short-term interest rates, typically one-month LIBOR, and adjust periodically at various intervals. During 2005, borrowing costs on adjustable rate CMO borrowings, which are tied to one month LIBOR and reprice monthly without limitation, rose at a faster pace than coupons on LIBOR ARMs securing CMO borrowings, which generally reprice every six months with limitation. To the extent that there is an increase in the interest rate index used to determine our adjustable interest rate borrowings and it increases faster than the indices used to determine the rates on our assets (i.e., the increase is not offset by a corresponding increase in the rates at which interest accrues on our assets) or is not offset by various cash payments on interest rate derivatives that we have in place at any given time, our net earnings will decrease or we will have net losses. ARMs typically have interest rate caps, which limit interest rates charged to the borrower during any given period. Our borrowings are not subject to similar restrictions. As a result, in a period of rapidly increasing interest rates, the interest rates we pay on our borrowings could increase without limitation, while the interest rates we earn on our ARMs would be capped. If this occurs, our net interest spread could be significantly reduced or we could suffer a net interest loss if not offset by a decrease in the cash payments on interest rate derivatives that we have in place at any given time. Our operating results will be affected by the results of our interest rate risk management activities. To mitigate interest rate risks associated with our mortgage and long-term investment operations, we enter into transactions designed to limit our exposure to interest rate risks. To mitigate the interest rate risks associated with adjustable rate borrowings, we attempt to match the interest rate sensitivities of our ARMs with the associated financing liabilities. Management determines the nature and quantity of derivative transactions based on various factors, including market conditions and the expected volume of mortgage acquisitions. While we believe that we properly manage our interest rate risk on an economic and tax basis, we have elected not to achieve hedge accounting, as established by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB," under the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, or "SFAS 133," for our interest rate risk management activities in our financial statements. The effect of not applying hedge accounting means that our interest rate risk management activities may result in significant volatility in our quarterly net earnings as interest rates go up or down. It is possible that there will be periods during which we will incur losses on derivative transactions that may result in net losses, as was the case in 2001 after the restatement of our consolidated financial statements, and for the three months ended June 30, 2005. In addition, if the counter parties to our derivative transactions are unable to perform according to the terms of the contracts, we may incur losses. Our derivative transactions may not offset the risk of adverse changes in our net interest margins. We may be subject to losses on mortgages for which we do not obtain credit enhancements. We do not obtain credit enhancements such as mortgage pool or special hazard insurance for all of our mortgages and investments. Generally, we require mortgage insurance on any mortgage with an LTV ratio greater than 80%. During the time 18 we hold mortgages for investment, we are subject to risks of borrower defaults and bankruptcies and special hazard losses that are not covered by standard hazard insurance. If a borrower defaults on a mortgage that we hold, we bear the risk of loss of principal to the extent there is any deficiency between the value of the related mortgaged property and the amount owing on the mortgage loan and any insurance proceeds available to us through the mortgage insurer. In addition, since defaulted mortgages, which under our financing arrangements are mortgages that are generally 60 to 90 days delinquent in payments, may be considered ineligible collateral under our borrowing arrangements, we could bear the risk of being required to own these loans without the use of borrowed funds until they are ultimately liquidated or possibly sold at a loss. Our mortgage products may expose us to greater credit risks. We are an acquirer and originator of Alt-A mortgages, and to a lesser extent, multi-family and B/C mortgages. These are mortgages that generally may not qualify for purchase by government-sponsored agencies such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac or "conforming loans". Our operations may be negatively affected due to our investments in these mortgages. Credit risks associated with these mortgages may be greater than those associated with conforming mortgages. The interest rates we charge on these mortgages are often higher than those charged for conforming loans in order to compensate for the higher risk and lower liquidity. Lower levels of liquidity may cause us to hold loans or other mortgage-related assets supported by these loans that we otherwise would not hold. By doing this, we assume the potential risk of increased delinquency rates and/or credit losses as well as interest rate risk. Additionally, the combination of different underwriting criteria and higher rates of interest leads to greater risk, including higher prepayment rates and higher delinquency rates and/or credit losses. We also have loan programs that allow a borrower to pay only the interest attributable to his loan for a set period of time. If there is a decline in real estate values borrowers may default on these types of loans since they have not reduced their principal balances, which, therefore, could exceed the value of their property. In addition, a reduction in property values would also cause an increase in the LTV ratio for that loan which could have the effect of reducing the value of that loan. There has been an increase in production of our loan product which is characterized as "interest only" and option ARM loans. There have been recent announcements by federal regulators concerning interest-only loan programs, option ARM loan programs and other ARM loans with deeply discounted initial rates and/or negative amortization features. There is increasing public policy debate focused on the rapid increase in the use of loans with interest-only features that require no amortization of principal for a protracted period or loans with potential negative amortization features, such as option payment ARMs. Already one rating agency (Standard & Poors) has required greater credit enhancements for securitization pools that are backed by option ARMs. These could lead to the loan product becoming less available as financing options and hence this could have a material affect on the value of such products. Our multi-family and commercial mortgages may expose us to increased lending risks. Generally, we consider multi-family and commercial mortgages to involve a higher degree of risk compared to first mortgages on one- to four-family, owner occupied residential properties. These mortgages have higher risks than mortgages secured by residential real estate because repayment of the mortgages often depends on the successful operations and the income stream of the borrowers. Furthermore, multi-family and commercial mortgages typically involve larger mortgage balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgages. Our use of second mortgages exposes us to greater credit risks. Our security interest in the property securing second mortgages is subordinated to the interest of the first mortgage holder and the second mortgages have a higher combined LTV ratio than does the first mortgage. If the value of the property is equal to or less than the amount needed to repay the borrower's obligation to the first mortgage holder upon foreclosure, our second mortgage loan will not be repaid. Lending to non-conforming borrowers may expose us to a higher risk of delinquencies, foreclosures and losses. Our market includes borrowers who may be unable to obtain mortgage financing from conventional mortgage sources. Mortgages made to such borrowers generally entail a higher risk of delinquency and higher losses than mortgages made to borrowers who utilize conventional mortgage sources. Delinquency, foreclosures and losses generally increase during economic slowdowns or recessions. The actual risk of delinquencies, foreclosures and losses on mortgages made to our borrowers could be higher under adverse economic conditions than those currently experienced in the mortgage lending industry in general. 19 Further, any material decline in real estate values increases the LTV ratios of mortgages previously made by us, thereby weakening collateral coverage and increasing the possibility of a loss in the event of a borrower default. Any sustained period of increased delinquencies, foreclosures or losses after the mortgages are sold could adversely affect the pricing of our future loan sales and our ability to sell or securitize our mortgages in the future. In the past, certain of these factors have caused revenues and net earnings of many participants in the mortgage industry, including us, to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Our borrowings and use of substantial leverage may cause losses. Our use of CMOs may expose our operations to credit losses. To grow our long-term mortgage portfolio, we borrow a substantial portion of the market value of substantially all of our investments in mortgages in the form of CMOs. There are no limitations on the amount of CMO borrowings we may incur, other than the aggregate value of the underlying mortgages. We currently use CMOs as financing vehicles to increase our leverage since mortgages held for CMO collateral are retained for investment. Retaining mortgages as collateral for CMOs exposes our operations to greater credit losses than does the use of other securitization techniques that are treated as sales because as the equity holder in the security, we are allocated losses from the liquidation of defaulted loans first, prior to any other security holder. Although our liability under a collateralized mortgage obligation is limited to the collateral used to create the collateralized mortgage obligation, we generally are required to make a cash equity investment to fund collateral in excess of the amount of the securities issued in order to obtain the appropriate credit ratings for the securities being sold, and therefore obtain the lowest interest rate available, on the CMOs. If we experience greater credit losses than expected on the pool of loans subject to the CMO, the value of our equity investment will decrease and we may have to increase the allowance for loan losses on our financial statements. If we default under our financing facilities, we may be forced to liquidate collateral. If we default under our financing facilities, our lenders could force us to liquidate the collateral. If the value of the collateral is less than the amount borrowed, we could be required to pay the difference in cash. Furthermore, if we default under one facility, it would generally cause a default under our other facilities. If we were to declare bankruptcy, some of our reverse repurchase agreements may obtain special treatment and our creditors would then be allowed to liquidate the collateral without any delay. On the other hand, if a lender with whom we have a reverse repurchase agreement declares bankruptcy, we might experience difficulty repurchasing our collateral, or enforcing our claim for damages, and it is possible that our claim could be repudiated and we could be treated as an unsecured creditor. If this occurs, our claims would be subject to significant delay and we may receive substantially less than our actual damages or nothing at all. If we are forced to liquidate, we may have few unpledged assets for distribution to unsecured creditors. We have pledged a substantial portion of our assets to secure the repayment of CMO borrowings issued in securitizations and our financing facilities. We will also pledge substantially all of our current and future mortgages to secure borrowings pending their securitization or sale. The cash flows we receive from our investments that have not yet been distributed or pledged or used to acquire mortgages or other investments may be the only unpledged assets available to our unsecured creditors if we were liquidated. The geographic concentration of our mortgages increases our exposure to risks in those areas. We do not set limitations on the percentage of our long-term mortgage portfolio composed of properties located in any one area (whether by state, zip code or other geographic measure). Concentration in any one area increases our exposure to the economic and natural hazard risks associated with that area. A majority of our mortgage acquisitions and originations, long-term mortgage portfolio and finance receivables are secured by properties in California and, to a lesser extent, Florida. Certain parts of California have experienced an economic downturn in past years and California and Florida have suffered the effects of certain natural hazards. Furthermore, if borrowers are not insured for natural disasters, which are typically not covered by standard hazard insurance policies, then they may not be able to repair the property or may stop paying their mortgages if the property is damaged. This would cause increased foreclosures and decrease our ability to recover losses on properties affected by such disasters. This would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. As a result of the hurricanes during 2005, we have provided a specific reserve of $12.8 million to record an estimated loss exposure for 886 20 properties securing a total unpaid principal balance of $183.7 million in the affected areas. Declines in those residential real estate markets may reduce the values of the properties collateralizing the mortgages, increase foreclosures and losses and have material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Representations and warranties made by us in our loan sales and securitizations may subject us to liability. In connection with our loan sales to third parties and our securitizations, we transfer mortgages acquired and originated by us to the third parties or into a trust in exchange for cash and, in the case of a CMO, residual certificates issued by the trust. The trustee or purchaser will have recourse to us with respect to the breach of the standard representations and warranties made by us at the time such mortgages are transferred. While we may have recourse to our customers for any such breaches, there can be no assurance of our customers' abilities to honor their respective obligations. Also, we engage in bulk whole loan sales pursuant to agreements that generally provide for recourse by the purchaser against us in the event of a breach of one of our representations or warranties, any fraud or misrepresentation during the mortgage origination process, or upon early default on such mortgage. We generally limit the potential remedies of such purchasers to the potential remedies we receive from the customers from whom we acquired or originated the mortgages. However, in some cases, the remedies available to a purchaser of mortgages from us may be broader than those available to us against the sellers of the mortgages and should a purchaser enforce its remedies against us, we are not always able to enforce whatever remedies we have against our customers. Furthermore, if we discover, prior to the sale or transfer of a loan, that there is any fraud or misrepresentation with respect to the mortgage and the originator fails to repurchase the mortgage, then we may not be able to sell the mortgage or we may have to sell the mortgage at a discount. In the ordinary course of our business, we are subject to claims made against us by borrowers and trustees in our securitizations arising from, among other things, losses that are claimed to have been incurred as a result of alleged breaches of fiduciary obligations, misrepresentations, errors and omissions of our employees, officers and agents (including our appraisers), incomplete documentation and our failure to comply with various laws and regulations applicable to our business. Any claims asserted against us may result in legal expenses or liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. A reduction in the demand for our loan products may adversely affect our operations. The availability of sufficient mortgages meeting our criteria is dependent in part upon the size and level of activity in the residential real estate lending market and, in particular, the demand for residential mortgages, which is affected by: •interest rates; •national economic conditions; •residential property values; and •regulatory and tax developments. If our mortgage acquisitions and originations decline, we may have: •decreased economies of scale; •higher origination costs per loan; •reduced fee income; •smaller gains on the sale of mortgages; and •an insufficient volume of mortgages to generate securitizations which thereby causes us to accumulate mortgages over a longer period. Competition for mortgages is intense and may adversely affect our operations. We compete in acquiring and originating Alt-A, B/C and multi-family mortgages and issuing mortgage-backed securities with other mortgage conduit programs, investment banking firms, savings and loan associations, banks, thrift and 21 loan associations, finance companies, mortgage bankers and brokers, insurance companies, other lenders, and other entities purchasing mortgage assets. We also face intense competition from Internet-based lending companies where entry barriers are relatively low. Some of our competitors are much larger than we are, have better name recognition than we do, and have far greater financial and other resources. Government-sponsored entities, in particular Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, are also expanding their participation in the Alt-A mortgage industry. These government-sponsored entities have a size and cost-of-funds advantage over us that allows them to price mortgages at lower rates than we are able to offer. This phenomenon may seriously destabilize the Alt-A mortgage industry. In addition, if as a result of what may be less-conservative, risk-adjusted pricing, these government-sponsored entities experience significantly higher-than-expected losses, it would likely adversely affect overall investor perception of the Alt-A and B/C mortgage industry because the losses would be made public due to the reporting obligations of these entities. The intense competition in the Alt-A, B/C and multi-family mortgage industry has also led to rapid technological developments, evolving industry standards and frequent releases of new products and enhancements. As mortgage products are offered more widely through alternative distribution channels, such as the Internet, we may be required to make significant changes to our current retail and wholesale structure and information systems to compete effectively. Our inability to continue enhancing our current Internet capabilities, or to adapt to other technological changes in the industry, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. The need to maintain mortgage loan volume in this competitive environment creates a risk of price competition in the Alt-A, B/C and multi-family mortgage industry. Competition in the industry can take many forms, including interest rates and costs of a loan, less stringent underwriting standards, convenience in obtaining a loan, customer service, amount and term of a loan and marketing and distribution channels. Our failure to maintain our customer service levels may affect our ability to effectively compete in the mortgage industry. Price competition would lower the interest rates that we are able to charge borrowers, which would lower our interest income and/or our gain on sale of mortgage loans. Price-cutting or discounting reduces profits and will depress earnings if sustained for any length of time. If our competition uses less stringent underwriting standards we will be pressured to do so as well, resulting in greater loan risk without being able to price for that greater risk. Our competitors may lower their underwriting standards to increase their market share. If we do not relax underwriting standards in the face of competition, we may lose market share. Increased competition may also reduce the volume of our loan originations and acquisitions. Any increase in these pricing and credit pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. We are a defendant in purported class actions and may not prevail in these matters. Class action lawsuits and regulatory actions alleging improper marketing practices, abusive loan terms and fees, disclosure violations, improper yield spread premiums and other matters are risks faced by all mortgage originators, particularly those in the Alt-A and B/C market. We are a defendant in purported class actions pending in different states. The class actions allege generally that the loan originator improperly charged fees in violation of various state lending or consumer protection laws in connection with mortgages that we acquired. Although the suits are not identical, they generally seek unspecified compensatory damages, punitive damages, pre- and post-judgment interest, costs and expenses and rescission of the mortgages, as well as a return of any improperly collected fees. Since January 10, 2006, several purported class action complaints have been filed against us and our executive officers and directors. The complaints, which are brought on behalf of persons who acquired common stock during the period of May 13, 2005 through August 9, 2005, generally allege violations of the federal securities laws due to allegedly false and misleading statements or omissions, related to the Company's financial condition and future prospects. Since February 1, 2006 derivative shareholder actions have also been filed against our officers and directors alleging breach of fiduciary duty, abuse of control, unjust enrichment and other related claims. These actions are in the early stages of litigation and, accordingly, it is difficult to predict the outcome or resolution of these matters or the timing for their resolution. We expect to incur defense costs and other expenses in connection with the class action lawsuits, and we cannot assure you that the ultimate outcome of these or other actions will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. In addition to the expense and burden incurred in defending this litigation and any damages that we may suffer, our management's efforts and attention may be diverted from the ordinary business operations in order to address these claims. If the final resolution of this litigation is unfavorable to us, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows might be materially adversely affected if our existing insurance coverage is unavailable or inadequate to resolve the matters. 22 We believe we have meritorious defenses to the actions and intend to defend against them vigorously; however, an adverse judgment in any of these matters could have a material adverse effect on us. We may incur losses in the future. During the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, we experienced net losses of $2.2 million and $54.5 million. The 2001 loss was related to a loss on derivatives and the 2000 loss was the result of write-downs of non-performing investment securities secured by mortgages and additional increases in the provision for loan losses to provide for the deterioration of the performance of collateral supporting specific investment securities for 2000. During the year ended December 31, 1998, we experienced a net loss of $5.9 million primarily as the mortgage industry experienced substantial turmoil as a result of a lack of liquidity in the secondary markets, which caused us to sell mortgages at losses to meet margin calls on our financing facilities. We cannot be certain that revenues will remain at current levels or improve or that we will generate net earnings in the future, which could prevent us from effectuating our business strategy. A substantial interruption in our use of iDASLg2 may adversely affect our level of mortgage acquisitions and originations. We utilize the Internet in our business principally for the implementation of our automated mortgage origination program, iDASLg2. iDASLg2 allows our customers to pre-qualify borrowers for various mortgage programs based on criteria requested from the borrower and renders an automated underwriting decision by issuing an approval of the mortgage loan or a referral for further review or additional information. Substantially all of our correspondents submit mortgages through iDASLg2 and all wholesale mortgages delivered by mortgage bankers and brokers are directly underwritten through the use of iDASLg2. iDASLg2 may be interrupted if the Internet experiences periods of poor performance, if our computer systems or the systems of our third-party service providers contain defects, or if customers are reluctant to use or have inadequate connectivity to the Internet. Increased government regulation of the Internet could also adversely affect our use of the Internet in unanticipated ways and discourage our customers from using our services. If our ability to use the Internet in providing our services is impaired, our ability to originate or acquire mortgages on an automated basis could be delayed or reduced. Furthermore, we rely on a third party hosting company in connection with the use of iDASLg2. If the third party hosting company fails for any reason, and adequate back-up is not implemented in a timely manner, it may delay and reduce those mortgage acquisitions and originations done through iDASLg2. Any substantial delay and reduction in our mortgage acquisitions and originations will reduce our taxable income for the applicable period. We are exposed to potential fraud and credit losses in providing repurchase financing. As a warehouse lender, we lend money to mortgage bankers on a secured basis and we are subject to the risks associated with lending to mortgage bankers, including the risks of fraud, borrower default and bankruptcy, any of which could result in credit losses for us. Fraud risk may include, but is not limited to, the financing of nonexistent loans or fictitious mortgage loan transactions or the delivery to us of fraudulent collateral that could result in the loss of all sums we have advanced to the borrower. For example, during 2004, the warehouse lending operations had a specific allowance for loan losses of $10.7 million for impaired repurchase advances. Also, our claims as a secured lender in a bankruptcy proceeding may be subject to adjustment and delay. Our delinquency ratios and our performance may be adversely affected by the performance of parties who service or sub-service our mortgages. We sell or contract with third-parties for the servicing of all mortgages, including those in our securitizations. Our operations are subject to risks associated with inadequate or untimely servicing. Poor performance by a servicer may result in greater than expected delinquencies and losses on our mortgages. A substantial increase in our delinquency or foreclosure rate could adversely affect our ability to access the capital and secondary markets for our financing needs. Also, with respect to mortgages subject to a securitization, greater delinquencies would adversely impact the value of our equity interest, if any, we hold in connection with that securitization. In a securitization, relevant agreements permit us to be terminated as servicer or master servicer under specific conditions described in these agreements. If, as a result of a servicer or sub-servicer's failure to perform adequately, we were terminated as master servicer of a securitization, the value of any master servicing rights held by us would be adversely affected. 23 We face risks related to our recent accounting restatements. On July 22, 2004, we publicly announced that we had discovered accounting inaccuracies in previously reported financial statements. As a result, following consultation with our auditors, we decided to restate our financial statements for the three months ended March 31, 2004 and 2003, the three and six months ended June 30, 2003, the three and nine months ended September 30, 2003 and for each of the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001. The restatements related to a correction to our revenue recognition policy with respect to the cash sales of mortgage servicing rights to unrelated third parties when the mortgage loans are retained, our accounting for derivatives and interest rate risk management activities, the accounting for loan purchase commitments as derivatives and selected elimination entries to consolidate IFC with that of IMH. We also corrected a clerical error in the calculation of earnings per share for the six months ended June 30, 2004. The restatement of our financial statements could lead to litigation claims and/or regulatory proceedings against us. The defense of any such claims or proceedings may cause the diversion of management's attention and resources, and we may be required to pay damages if any such claims or proceedings are not resolved in our favor. Any litigation or regulatory proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could cause us to incur significant legal and other expenses. We also may have difficulty raising equity capital or obtaining other financing, such as lines of credit or otherwise. We may not be able to effectuate our current operating strategy, including the ability to originate, acquire or securitize mortgage loans for retention or sale at projected levels. The occurence of any of the foregoing could harm our business and reputation and cause the price of our securities to decline. We are exposed to environmental liabilities, with respect to properties that we take title to upon foreclosure, that could increase our costs of doing business and harm our results of operations. In the course of our activities, we may foreclose and take title to residential properties and become subject to environmental or mold liabilities with respect to those properties. The laws and regulations related to mold or environmental contamination often impose liability without regard to responsibility for the contamination. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with mold or environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. Moreover, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based upon damages and costs resulting from mold or environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant mold or environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be significantly harmed. We are subject to risks of operational failure that are beyond our control. Substantially all of our operations are located in Newport Beach, California. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage and interruption from fire, flood, telecommunications failure, break-ins, earthquake and similar events. Our operations may also be interrupted by power disruptions, including rolling black-outs implemented in California due to power shortages. We do not have alternative power sources in all of our locations. Furthermore, our security mechanisms may be inadequate to prevent security breaches to our computer systems, including from computer viruses, electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. Such security breaches or operational failures could expose us to liability, impair our operations, result in losses, and harm our reputation. If we fail to maintain effective systems of internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, which could cause current and potential shareholders to lose confidence in our financial reporting, adversely affect the trading price of our securities or harm our operating results. Effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company. Any failure to develop or maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures could harm our reputation or operating results, or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Furthermore, if we do not have effective internal control over financial reporting, our external auditors will not be able to issue an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In the past, we have reported, and may discover in the future, material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. 24 Ineffective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities or affect our ability to access the capital markets and could result in regulatory proceedings against us by, among others, the SEC. In addition, a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting, which may lead to deficiencies in the preparation of financial statements, could lead to litigation claims against us. The defense of any such claims may cause the diversion of management's attention and resources, and we may be required to pay damages if any such claims or proceedings are not resolved in our favor. Any litigation, even if resolved in our favor, could cause us to incur significant legal and other expenses. Such events could harm our business, affect our ability to raise capital and adversely affect the trading price of our securities. Regulatory Risks Violation of various federal, state and local laws may result in losses on our loans. Applicable state and local laws generally regulate interest rates and other charges, require certain disclosure, and require licensing of the mortgage broker, lender and purchaser. In addition, other state and local laws, public policy and general principles of equity relating to the protection of consumers, unfair and deceptive practices and debt collection practices may apply to the origination, servicing and collection of our loans. Mortgage loans are also subject to federal laws, including: •the Federal Truth-in-Lending Act and Regulation Z promulgated there under, which require certain disclosures to the borrowers regarding the terms of the loans; •the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and Regulation B promulgated there under, which prohibit discrimination on the basis of age, race, color, sex, religion, marital status, national origin, receipt of public assistance or the exercise of any right under the Consumer Credit Protection Act, in the extension of credit; •the Fair Housing Act, which prohibits discrimination in housing on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, familial status, or handicap, in housing-related transactions; •the Fair Credit Reporting Act, which regulates the use and reporting of information related to the borrower's credit experience; •the Fair and Accurate Credit Transaction Act, which regulates credit reporting and use of credit information in making unsolicited offers of credit; •the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, which imposes requirements on all lenders with respect to their collection and use of nonpublic financial information and requires them to maintain the security of that information; •the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, which requires that consumers receive disclosures at various times and outlaws kickbacks that increase the cost of settlement services; •the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, which requires the reporting of public loan data; •the Telephone Consumer Protection Act and the Can Spam Act, which regulate commercial solicitations via telephone, fax, and the Internet; •the Depository Institutions Deregulation and Monetary Control Act of 1980, which preempts certain state usury laws; and •the Alternative Mortgage Transaction Parity Act of 1982, which preempts certain state lending laws which regulate alternative mortgage transactions. Violations of certain provisions of these federal and state laws may limit our ability to collect all or part of the principal of or interest on the loans and in addition could subject us to damages and could result in the mortgagors rescinding the loans whether held by us or subsequent holders of the loans. In addition, such violations may cause us to be in default under our credit and repurchase facilities and could result in the loss of licenses held by us. 25 Similarly, it is possible borrowers may assert that the loan forms we use or acquire, including forms for "interest-only" and "option ARM' loans for which there is little standardization or uniformity, fail to properly describe the transactions they intended, or that our forms fail to comply with applicable consumer protection statutes or other federal and state laws. This could result in liability for violations of certain provisions of federal and state consumer protection laws and our inability to sell the loans and our obligation to repurchase the loans or indemnify the purchasers. New regulatory laws affecting the mortgage industry may increase our costs and decrease our mortgage origination and acquisition. The regulatory environments in which we operate have an impact on the activities in which we may engage, how the activities may be carried out, and the profitability of those activities. Therefore, changes to laws, regulations or regulatory policies can affect whether and to what extent we are able to operate profitably. For example, recently enacted and proposed local, state and federal legislation targeted at predatory lending could have the unintended consequence of raising the cost or otherwise reducing the availability of mortgage credit for those potential borrowers with less than prime-quality credit histories, thereby resulting in a reduction of otherwise legitimate Alt-A or B/C lending opportunities. Similarly, recently enacted and proposed local, state and federal privacy laws and laws prohibiting or limiting marketing by telephone, facsimile, email and the Internet may limit our ability to market and our ability to access potential loan applicants. For example, the Can Spam Act of 2003 establishes the first national standards for the sending of commercial email allowing, among other things, unsolicited commercial email provided it contains certain information and an opt-out mechanism. We cannot provide any assurance that the proposed laws, rules and regulations, or other similar laws, rules or regulations, will not be adopted in the future. Adoption of these laws and regulations could have a material adverse impact on our business by substantially increasing the costs of compliance with a variety of inconsistent federal, state and local rules, or by restricting our ability to charge rates and fees adequate to compensate us for the risk associated with certain loans. Some states and local governments have enacted, or may enact, laws or regulations that prohibit inclusion of some provisions in mortgage loans that have mortgage rates or origination costs in excess of prescribed levels, and require that borrowers be given certain disclosures prior to the consummation of such mortgage loans. Our failure to comply with these laws could subject us to monetary penalties and could result in the borrowers rescinding the mortgage loans, whether held by us or subsequent holders. Lawsuits have been brought in various states making claims against assignees of these loans for violations of state law. Compliance with some of these restrictions requires lenders to make subjective judgments, such as whether a loan will provide a "net tangible benefit" to the borrower. These restrictions expose a lender to risks of litigation and regulatory sanction no matter how carefully a loan is underwritten and impact the way in which a loan is underwritten. The remedies for violations of these laws are not based solely on actual harm to the consumer and can result in damages that exceed the loan balance. Liability for violations of HOEPA, as well as violations of many of the state and local equivalents, could extend not only to us, but to our secured warehouse lenders, institutional loan purchasers, securitization trusts that hold our loans and other assignees, regardless of whether such assignee knew of or participated in the violation. Furthermore, various federal and state laws impose significant privacy or customer information security obligations which may subject us to additional costs and legal risks and we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to lawsuits or compliance actions under such requirements. Similarly various state and federal laws have been enacted to restrict unsolicited advertising using telephones, facsimile machines and electronic means of transmission. These laws and regulations could have a material adverse impact on our business by substantially increasing the costs of compliance or by subjecting us to lawsuits or compliance actions. In addition to changes to legal requirements contained in statutes, regulations, case law, and other sources of law, changes in the investigation or enforcement policies of federal and state regulatory agencies could impact the activities in which we may engage, how the activities may be carried out, and the profitability of those activities. For example, various state and federal agencies have initiated regulatory enforcement proceedings against mortgage companies for engaging in business practices that were not specifically or clearly proscribed by law, but which in the judgment of the regulatory agencies were unfair or deceptive to consumers. Federal and state regulatory agencies might also determine in the future that certain of our business practices not presently proscribed by any law and not the subject of previous enforcement actions are unfair or deceptive to consumers. If this happens, it could impact the activities in which we may engage, how we carry out those activities, and our profitability. We might also be required to pay fines, make reimbursements, and make other payments to third parties for past business practices. Additionally, if an administrative enforcement proceeding were to result in us having to discontinue or alter certain business practices, then we might be placed at a competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis competitors who are not required to make comparable changes to their business practices. This competitive disadvantage could be most acute if 26 the business practices that we are required to discontinue or change are not clearly proscribed by any federal or state law of general applicability. New Criteria May Effect the Value or Marketability of Certain of Our Loan Products The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Office of Thrift Supervision, and the National Credit Union Administration (none of whom regulate IMH) jointly issued draft guidance to promote sound credit risk management practices. The guidance cautions lenders to consider all relevant risk factors when establishing underwriting guidelines, including a borrower's income and debt levels, credit score as well as the loan size, collateral value, lien position and property type and location. It stresses that prudently underwritten home equity loans should include an evaluation of a borrower's capacity to adequately service the debt, and that reliance on a credit score is insufficient because it relies on historical financial performance not present capacity to pay. While not specifically applicable to IMH, the guidance is instructive of the regulatory climate covering low and no documentation loans, which IMH does acquire and originate, and hence it may affect our ability to sell these loans to third parties, should we elect to sell them. If we were required to make these changes to our business practices, it might affect the business activities in which we may engage and the profitability of those activities. Furthermore, some of the institutions from which we purchase or to which we sell nontraditional mortgage products might be among the institutions directly subject to the Guidance. Our business could be adversely impacted if these institutions are required to make changes to their business practices and policies relative to nontraditional mortgage products. For example, if entities from which we purchase our loans are required to change their origination guidelines thereby affecting the volume, diversity and quality of loans available for purchase by us, or if purchasers of our mortgage loans are required to make changes to the purchasing policies then our ability to sell mortgage loans, our profitability and our credit risk exposure could be adversely impacted. There has been an increase in production of loan products which we characterize as "interest-only" and "option-ARM" loans. There is increasing public policy debate over loans with interest-only features that require no amortization of principal for a protracted period and loans with potential negative amortization features, such as option payment ARMs. There is a risk that this debate will lead to the enactment of laws which limit our ability to continue producing these loan products at our present levels, or which augment the risks of legal liability that we face in connection with such loan products. Further, one rating agency has required greater credit enhancements for securitization pools that are backed by option ARMS, actions such as this by rating agencies can impact the profitability of originating or dealing in these loan products. We may be subject to fines or other penalties based upon the conduct of our independent brokers or correspondents. The mortgage brokers and correspondents from which we obtain mortgages have parallel and separate legal obligations to which they are subject. While these laws may not explicitly hold the originating lenders or an acquirer of the loan responsible for the legal violations of mortgage bankers and brokers, increasingly federal and state agencies have sought to impose such liability. Previously, for example, the United States Federal Trade Commission, or "FTC," entered into a settlement agreement with a mortgage lender where the FTC characterized a broker that had placed all of its loan production with a single lender as the "agent" of the lender; the FTC imposed a fine on the lender in part because, as "principal," the lender was legally responsible for the mortgage broker's unfair and deceptive acts and practices. The United States Justice Department, various state attorney generals, and other state officials have sought to hold sub-prime mortgage lenders responsible for the pricing practices of their mortgage bankers and brokers, alleging that the mortgage lender was directly responsible for the total fees and charges paid by the borrower under the Fair Housing Act even if the lender neither dictated what the mortgage banker could charge nor kept the money for its own account. Accordingly, we may be subject to fines or other penalties based upon the conduct of our independent mortgage bankers, brokers or correspondents. Our operations may be adversely affected if we are subject to the Investment Company Act. We intend to conduct our business at all times so as not to become regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. The Investment Company Act exempts entities that are primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate. 27 In order to qualify for this exemption we must maintain at least 55% of our assets directly in mortgages, qualifying pass-through certificates and certain other qualifying interests in real estate. Our ownership of certain mortgage assets may be limited by the provisions of the Investment Company Act, should we ever be subject to the Act. If the SEC adopts a contrary interpretation with respect to these securities or otherwise believes we do not satisfy the above exception, we could be required to restructure our activities or sell certain of our assets. To insure that we continue to qualify for the exemption we may be required at times to adopt less efficient methods of financing certain of our mortgage assets and we may be precluded from acquiring certain types of higher-yielding mortgage assets. The net effect of these factors will be to lower our net interest income. If we fail to qualify for exemption from registration as an investment company, our ability to use leverage would be substantially reduced, and we would not be able to conduct our business as described. Our business will be materially and adversely affected if we fail to qualify for this exemption. Regulation AB may create additional liabilities, costs and restrictions for our business. On December 15, 2004, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) approved the final regulations covering the registration, disclosure, communications, and reporting requirements for for asset-backed securities ("Regulation AB"), which became effective January 1, 2006. The new rules contain several new disclosure requirements, including requirements to provide historical financial data with respect to either prior securitized pools of the same asset class or prior originations and information with respect to the background, experience and roles of the various transaction parties, including those involved in the origination, sale or servicing of the loans in the securitized pool. Moreover, annual assessments of compliance with enhanced servicing criteria by servicers and attestation reports from an independent accounting firm must be obtained with respect to securitized pools of our mortgage loans. Securitizations. Our failure to provide the information required by Regulation AB could subject us to Securities Act liability either directly or indirectly through the indemnification provisions of the transaction documents related to a securitization of our mortgage loans. Furthermore, any failure to comply with the new reporting requirements for asset-backed securities under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, may result in the loss of eligibility to register our asset-backed securities on Form S-3 which would increase the costs of and limit our access to the public asset-backed securities market. Mortgage Loan Sales. As a result of the implementation of Regulation AB, our loan sale agreements with third parties may require us to provide certain information with respect to ourselves and historical information with respect to the performance of our mortgage loans to such purchasers. Our failure to provide this information with respect to any of our mortgage loan products may result in a breach of a contractual obligation for which we provide an indemnification. In addition, if we are not able to provide such information, the number of potential purchasers of our mortgage loans may be limited or the transaction sizes of sales of our mortgage loans may be limited, each of which may have an adverse effect on the price we receive for our mortgage loans. In the case of both securitizations and loan sales, compliance with Regulation AB will increase our cost of doing business as we are required to develop systems and procedures to ensure that we do not violate any aspect of these new requirements. Risks Related To Our Status As A REIT We may not pay dividends to stockholders. REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code generally require that we annually distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of all of our taxable income, exclusive of the application of any tax loss carry forwards that may be used to offset current period taxable income. These provisions restrict our ability to retain earnings and thereby generate capital from our operating activities. We may decide at a future date to terminate our REIT status, which would cause us to be taxed at the corporate levels and cease paying regular dividends. In addition, for any year that we do not generate taxable income, we are not required to declare and pay dividends to maintain our REIT status. For instance, due to losses incurred in 2000, we did not declare any dividends from November 2000 until September 2001. To date, a portion of our taxable income and cash flow has been attributable to our receipt of dividend distributions from the mortgage operations. The mortgage operations is not a REIT and is not, therefore, subject to the above-described REIT distribution requirements. Because the mortgage operations is seeking to retain earnings to fund the future growth of our mortgage operations business, IFC's board of directors, only comprised of executive officers of the Company, which is not the 28 same as IMH's board of directors, may decide that the mortgage operations should cease making dividend distributions in the future. This would materially reduce the amount of our taxable income and in turn, would reduce the amount we would be required to distribute as dividends. If we fail to maintain our REIT status, we may be subject to taxation as a regular corporation. We believe that we have operated and intend to continue to operate in a manner that enables us to meet the requirements for qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service that we qualify as a REIT. Moreover, no assurance can be given that legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions will not significantly change the tax laws with respect to qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification. Our continued qualification as a REIT will depend on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational and stockholder ownership requirements on a continuing basis. If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates. We also may be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax. Unless we are entitled to relief under specific statutory provisions, we could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four taxable years following the year during which we were disqualified. Therefore, if we lose our REIT status, the funds available for distribution to stockholders would be reduced substantially for each of the years involved. Failure to qualify as a REIT could adversely affect the value of our securities. On October 22, 2004, President Bush signed the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the "2004 Act"), which, among other things, amends the rules applicable to REIT qualification. In particular, the 2004 Act provides that a REIT that fails the quarterly asset tests for one or more quarters will not lose its REIT status as a result of such failure if either (i) such failure is regarded as a de minimis failure under standards set out in the 2004 Act, or (ii) the failure is greater than a de minimis failure but is attributable to reasonable cause and not willful neglect. In the case of a greater than de minimis failure, however, the REIT must pay a tax and must remedy the failure within 6 months of the close of the quarter in which such failure occurred. In addition, the 2004 Act provides relief for failures of other tests imposed as a condition of REIT qualification, as long as such failures are attributable to reasonable cause and not willful neglect. A REIT would be required to pay a penalty of $50,000, however, in the case of each such failure. The above-described changes apply for taxable years of REITs beginning after the date of enactment. Potential characterization of distributions or gain on sale as unrelated business taxable income to tax-exempt investors. If (1) all or a portion of our assets are subject to the rules relating to taxable mortgage pools, (2) we are a "pension-held REIT," (3) a tax-exempt stockholder has incurred debt to purchase or hold our common stock, or (4) the residual REMIC interests we buy generate "excess inclusion income," then a portion of the distributions to and, in the case of a stockholder described in (3), gains realized on the sale of common stock by such tax-exempt stockholder may be subject to Federal income tax as unrelated business taxable income under the Internal Revenue Code. Classification as a taxable mortgage pool could subject us or certain of our stockholders to increased taxation. If we have borrowings with two or more maturities and, (1) those borrowings are secured by mortgages or mortgage-backed securities and, (2) the payments made on the borrowings are related to the payments received on the underlying assets, then the borrowings and the pool of mortgages or mortgage-backed securities to which such borrowings relate may be classified as a taxable mortgage pool under the Internal Revenue Code. If any part of our Company were to be treated as a taxable mortgage pool, then our REIT status would not be impaired, but a portion of the taxable income we recognize may, under regulations to be issued by the Treasury Department, be characterized as "excess inclusion" income and allocated among our stockholders to the extent of and generally in proportion to the distributions we make to each stockholder. Any excess inclusion income would: •not be allowed to be offset by a stockholder's net operating losses; •be subject to a tax as unrelated business income if a stockholder were a tax-exempt stockholder; 29 •be subject to the application of federal income tax withholding at the maximum rate (without reduction for any otherwise applicable income tax treaty) with respect to amounts allocable to foreign stockholders; and •be taxable (at the highest corporate tax rate) to us, rather than to our stockholders, to the extent the excess inclusion income relates to stock held by disqualified organizations (generally, tax-exempt companies not subject to tax on unrelated business income, including governmental organizations). Based on our analysis and advice of our tax counsel, we believe our existing financing arrangements do not create a taxable mortgage pool. We may be subject to possible adverse consequences as a result of limits on ownership of our shares. Our charter limits ownership of our capital stock by any single stockholder, including a corporation, to 9.5% of our outstanding shares unless waived by the board of directors. By subjecting entities, such as corporations, to the ownership limitation, our charter is more restrictive than the requirements of the federal tax laws applicable to REITs, and thereby serves the dual purpose of helping us maintain our REIT status and protecting us from an unwanted takeover. Our board of directors may increase the 9.5% ownership limit. In addition, to the extent consistent with the REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, our board of directors may, pursuant to our articles of incorporation, waive the 9.5% ownership limit for a stockholder or purchaser of our stock. In order to waive the 9.5% ownership limit our board of directors must require the stockholder requesting the waiver to provide certain representations to the Company to ensure compliance with the REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. Our charter also prohibits anyone from buying shares if the purchase would result in us losing our REIT status. This could happen if a share transaction results in fewer than 100 persons owning all of our shares or in five or fewer persons, applying certain broad attribution rules of the Internal Revenue Code, owning more than 50% (by value) of our shares. If you or anyone else acquires shares in excess of the ownership limit or in violation of the ownership requirements of the Internal Revenue Code for REITs, we: •will consider the transfer to be null and void; •will not reflect the transaction on our books; •may institute legal action to enjoin the transaction; •will not pay dividends or other distributions with respect to those shares; •will not recognize any voting rights for those shares; •may redeem the shares; and •will consider the shares held in trust for the benefit of a charitable beneficiary as designated by us. The trustee shall sell the shares held in trust and the owner of the excess shares will be entitled to the lesser of: (a)the price paid by the owner; (b)if the owner did not purchase the excess shares, the closing price for the shares on the national securities exchange on which IMH is listed on the day of the event causing the shares to be held in trust; or (c)the price received by the trustee from the sale of the shares. Notwithstanding the above, our charter contains a provision which provides that nothing in the charter will preclude the settlement of transactions entered into through the facilities of the NYSE. Limitations on acquisition and change in control ownership limit. Our charter and bylaws, and Maryland corporate law contain a number of provisions that could delay, defer, or prevent a transaction or a change of control of us that might involve a premium price for holders of our capital stock or otherwise be in their best interests by increasing the associated costs and timeframe necessary to make an acquisition, making the process for acquiring a sufficient number of shares of our capital stock to effectuate or accomplish such a change of control longer and 30 more costly. In addition, investors may refrain from attempting to cause a change in control because of the difficulty associated with such a venture because of the limitations. Risks Related To Ownership of Our Securities Our share prices have been and may continue to be volatile. Historically, the market price of our securities has been volatile. The market price of our securities is likely to continue to be highly volatile and could be significantly affected by factors including: •the amount of dividends paid; •availability of liquidity in the securitization market; •loan sale pricing; •termination of financing agreements; •margin calls by warehouse lenders or changes in warehouse lending rates; •unanticipated fluctuations in our operating results; •prepayments on mortgages; •valuations of securitization related assets; •the effect of the restatement of our financial condition and results of operations; •mark to market adjustments related to the fair value of derivatives; •cost of funds; and •general market conditions. During 2005, our common stock reached an intra-day high sales price of $23.49 on February 2, and closed at the low sales price of $9.00 on October 11. In addition, significant price and volume fluctuations in the stock market have particularly affected the market prices for the securities of mortgage REIT companies such as ours. These broad market fluctuations have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If our results of operations fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in a future quarter, the market price of our securities could also be materially adversely affected and we may experience difficulty in raising capital. Sales of additional common or preferred stock may adversely affect its market price. To sustain our growth strategy we intend to raise capital through the sale of equity. The sale or the proposed sale of substantial amounts of our common stock or preferred stock in the public market could materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock or other outstanding securities. We do not know the actual or perceived effect of these offerings, the timing of these offerings, the potential dilution of the book value or earnings per share of our securities then outstanding and the effect on the market price of our securities then outstanding. For example, during 2005, the Company issued shares of common and preferred stock which resulted in net proceeds of approximately $4.2 million and $1.6 million, respectively. We also have shares reserved for future issuance under our stock plans. The sale of a large amount of shares or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price for our common stock or other outstanding securities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 31 