ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Factors That May Affect Future Results and the Market Price of Common Stock Continued Effects of the Economic Recession may Adversely Affect our Industry, Business and Results of Operations Over the past several years, the United States economy has experienced negative economic conditions and a generally uncertain business environment. Although conditions have moderately improved over the last three years, the future economic environment may continue to be less favorable than in years past. The continued effects of the economic recession or a generally uncertain business environment could adversely affect the financial condition and levels of business activity of our clients. Recent economic conditions have had, and may continue to have, a corresponding negative impact on our operating results as some of our clients may suffer business failures, and others may react to worsening conditions by reducing their employee headcount, lowering their wage and bonus levels, lowering their spending on other human resources benefits and services or determining not to outsource those services to us. In addition, economic conditions may impair our ability to attract new clients. The average number of paid worksite employees per month increased 7.5% in 2012 to 125,650 from 116,839 in 2011. We expect the average number of paid worksite employees per month to be in the range of 123,250 to 123,750 in the first quarter of 2013. Negative economic conditions could continue to have a material adverse effect on our future financial results. We Assume Liability for Worksite Employee Payroll, Payroll Taxes and Benefits Costs and are Responsible for their Payment Regardless of the Amount Billed to or Paid by our Clients Under the CSA, we become a co-employer of worksite employees and assume the obligations to pay the salaries, wages and related benefits costs and payroll taxes of such worksite employees. We assume such obligations as a principal, not as an agent of the client. Our obligations include responsibility for: · payment of the salaries and wages for work performed by worksite employees, regardless of whether the client timely pays us the associated service fee · withholding and payment of federal and state payroll taxes with respect to wages and salaries reported by Insperity · providing benefits to worksite employees even if our costs to provide such benefits exceed the fees the client pays us If a client does not pay us, or if the costs of benefits we provide to worksite employees exceed the fees a client pays us, our ultimate liability for worksite employee payroll and benefits costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Increases in Health Insurance Premiums or Inability to Secure Replacement Contracts on Competitive Terms could have a Material Adverse Effect on our Financial Condition or Results of Operations Maintaining health insurance plans that cover worksite employees is a significant part of our business. Our primary health insurance contract expires on December 31, 2015, subject to cancellation by either party upon 180 days notice. In the event we are unable to secure replacement contracts on competitive terms, significant disruption to our business could occur. Health insurance premiums are in part determined by our claims experience and comprise a significant portion of our direct costs. We employ extensive risk management procedures in an attempt to control our claims incidence and structure our benefits contracts to provide as much cost stability as possible. However, if we experience a sudden and unexpected large increase in claim activity, our health insurance costs could increase. Claim activity levels are impacted by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, macro-economic changes, proposed and enacted regulatory changes and medical outbreaks. Contractual arrangements with our clients limit our ability to incorporate such increases into service fees, which could result in a delay before such increases could be reflected in service fees. As a result, such increases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. For additional information related to our health insurance costs, please read Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates – Benefits Costs.” - 19 - Table of Contents Health Care Reform could Affect Our Health Insurance Plan and could Lead to a Significant Disruption in our Business The PPACA was signed into law on March 23, 2010. The PPACA was subsequently amended on March 30, 2010 by the Reconciliation Act. The PPACA and Reconciliation Act (collectively the “Act”) entail sweeping health care reforms with staggered effective dates from 2010 through 2018, and many provisions in the Act require the issuance of additional guidance from the U.S. Department of Labor, the IRS, the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services (“HHS”), and the states. Beginning in 2014, a number of key provisions of the Act take effect including, the establishment of state insurance exchanges (“Exchanges”), insurance market reforms, “pay or play” penalties on large employers and the imposition of excise taxes on the health insurance industry and reinsurance taxes on insurers and third party administrators. Collectively, these items have the potential to significantly change the insurance marketplace for small and medium sized businesses and how employers provide insurance to employees. In addition, as a co-employer in the PEO relationship, we assume or share many of the employer-related responsibilities and assist our clients in complying with many employment-related governmental regulations. Generally, the Act and subsequently issued guidance by IRS and HHS have not addressed or in some instances are unclear as to their application in the PEO relationship or whether such provisions should be applied at the PEO or client level. We are currently unable to determine the impact of the Act on our benefit plans, business model and future results of operations. In future periods, the changes may result in increased costs to us and could affect our ability to attract and retain clients. Additionally, contractual arrangements and competitive market conditions may limit or delay our ability to increase service fees to offset any associated potential increased costs. For additional information related to PPACA, please read Item 1. “Business – Industry Regulations – Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.” Increases in Workers’ Compensation Costs or Inability to Secure Replacement Coverage on Competitive Terms could Lead to a Significant Disruption to our Business Our workers’ compensation coverage has been provided through an arrangement with ACE since 2007. Under our current arrangement with ACE, we bear the economic burden for the first $1 million layer of claims per occurrence and the economic burden for claims over $1 million, up to a maximum aggregate amount of $5 million per policy year for claims that exceed the first $1 million. ACE bears the burden for all claims in excess of these levels. The ACE Program is a fully insured policy whereby ACE has the responsibility to pay all claims incurred under the policy regardless of whether we satisfy our responsibilities. For additional discussion of our policy with ACE, please read Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates – Workers’ Compensation Costs.” Workers’ compensation costs are a significant portion of our direct costs. If we were to experience a sudden and unexpected large increase in the number or severity of claims, our workers’ compensation costs could increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. The current workers’ compensation coverage with ACE expires on September 30, 2013. In the event we are unable to secure replacement coverage on competitive terms, significant disruption to our business could occur. Our Ability to Adjust and Collect Service Fees for Increases in Unemployment Tax Rates may be Limited We record our SUI tax expense based on taxable wages and tax rates assigned by each state. State unemployment tax rates vary by state and are determined, in part, based on prior years’ compensation experience in each state. Prior to the receipt of final tax rate notices, we estimate our expected SUI tax rate in those states for which tax rate notices have not yet been received for purposes of pricing. Due to adverse economic conditions in recent years and the associated reductions in employment levels, the state unemployment funds have experienced a significant increase in the number of unemployment claims. Accordingly, state unemployment tax rates increased substantially over the past few years. Some states have the ability under law to increase unemployment tax rates retroactively to cover deficiencies in the unemployment fund. In addition, federal unemployment tax rates may be retroactively increased in certain states in the event the state fails to timely repay federal unemployment loans. Generally, our contractual agreements allow us to incorporate such increases into our service fees upon the effective date of the rate change. However, our ability to fully adjust service fees in our billing systems and collect such increases over the remaining term of the customers’ contracts could be limited, resulting in a potential tax increase not being fully recovered. As a result, such increases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. For additional information related to state unemployment taxes, please read Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies.” - 20 - Table of Contents Our Contracts may be Cancelled on Short Notice. Our Inability to Renew Client Contracts or Attract New Clients could Materially and Adversely Affect our Financial Conditions and Results of Operations Our standard CSA can generally be cancelled by us or the client with 30 days notice. Accordingly, the short-term nature of the CSA makes us vulnerable to potential cancellations by existing clients, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In the event we have a high proportion of terminating clients from our mid-market customer base, the financial impact of such an event could be significant. In addition, our results of operations are dependent in part upon our ability to retain or replace our clients upon the termination or cancellation of the CSA. Our client attrition rate was approximately 19% in 2012. There can be no assurance that the number of contract cancellations will continue at these levels and such cancellations may increase in the future due to various factors, including but not limited to, economic conditions in the markets we operate. Established Competitors and New Market Entrants may have a Competitive Advantage over Us The human resources services industry, including the PEO industry, is highly fragmented. Many PEOs have limited operations and fewer than 1,000 worksite employees, but there are several industry participants that are comparable to our size or larger. We also encounter competition from “fee for service” companies such as payroll processing firms, insurance companies and human resources consultants. Our competitors include the PEO divisions of large business services companies, such as Automatic Data Processing, Inc. and Paychex, Inc., and other PEOs such as TriNet. Other PEOs may offer their PEO services at more competitive prices than we may be able to offer. Moreover, we expect that as the PEO industry grows and its regulatory framework becomes better established, well-organized competition with greater resources than we have may enter the PEO market, possibly including large “fee for service” companies currently providing a more limited range of services. We may be Subject to Liabilities for Client and Employee Actions A number of legal issues remain unresolved with respect to the co-employment arrangement between a PEO and its worksite employees, including questions concerning the ultimate liability for violations of employment and discrimination laws. Our CSA establishes the contractual division of responsibilities between Insperity and our clients for various personnel management matters, including compliance with and liability under various governmental regulations. Because we act as a co-employer, we may be subject to liability for violations of various employment and discrimination laws despite these contractual provisions, even if we do not participate in such violations. Although the CSA provides that the client is to indemnify us for any liability attributable to the client’s conduct, we may not be able to collect on such a contractual indemnification claim and thus may be responsible for satisfying such liabilities to the extent that such liabilities are not covered or insured against under our insurance policies. In addition, worksite employees may be deemed to be our agents, which may subject us to liability for the actions of such worksite employees. Changes in Federal, State and Local Regulation or our Inability to Obtain Licenses under New Regulatory Frameworks could have a Material Adverse Effect on our Results of Operations or Financial Condition As a major employer, our operations are affected by numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to labor, tax, benefit, insurance and employment matters. By entering into a co-employer relationship with employees assigned to work at client locations, we assume certain obligations and responsibilities of an employer under these laws. However, many of these laws (such as the Act, ERISA and federal and state employment tax laws) do not specifically address the obligations and responsibilities of non-traditional employers such as PEOs, and the definition of “employer” under these laws is not uniform. In addition, many of the states in which we operate have not addressed the PEO relationship for purposes of compliance with applicable state laws governing the employer/employee relationship. Any adverse application of new or existing federal or state laws to the PEO relationship with our worksite employees and client companies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. - 21 - Table of Contents While many states do not explicitly regulate PEOs, 41 states have passed laws that have recognition, licensing, certification or registration requirements for PEOs and several other states are considering such regulation. Such laws vary from state to state, but generally provide for monitoring the fiscal responsibility of PEOs, and in some cases codify and clarify the co-employment relationship for unemployment, workers’ compensation and other purposes under state law. While we generally support licensing regulation because it serves to validate the PEO relationship, we may not be able to satisfy licensing requirements or other applicable regulations for all states. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to renew our licenses in all states. Geographic Market Concentration makes our Results of Operations Vulnerable to Economic Factors Our Houston, California, and Texas (including Houston) markets accounted for approximately 13%, 18% and 26%, respectively, of our worksite employees for the year ended December 31, 2012. Accordingly, while we have a goal of expanding in our current markets and into new markets, for the foreseeable future, a significant portion of our revenues may be subject to economic factors specific to Texas and California. A Determination that a Client is Liable for Employment Taxes not Paid by a PEO may Discourage Clients from Contracting with us in the Future Under the CSA, we assume sole responsibility and liability for paying federal employment taxes imposed under the Code with respect to wages and salaries we pay our worksite employees. There are essentially three types of federal employment tax obligations: · income tax withholding requirements · FICA · FUTA Under the Code, employers have the obligation to withhold and remit the employer portion and, where applicable, the employee portion of these taxes. Most states impose similar employment tax obligations on the employer. While the CSA provides that we have sole legal responsibility for making these tax contributions, the IRS or applicable state taxing authority could conclude that such liability cannot be completely transferred to us. Accordingly, in the event that we fail to meet our tax withholding and payment obligations, the client may be held jointly and severally liable for those obligations. While this interpretive issue has not, to our knowledge, discouraged clients from enrolling with Insperity, a definitive adverse resolution of this issue may discourage clients from enrolling in the future. Potential Disclosure of Sensitive or Private Information could Damage our Reputation and Impact our Operating Results Unauthorized access or unintentional disclosure of personal or confidential information could damage our reputation and operating results. While we strive to comply with all applicable data protection laws and regulations, and maintain stringent privacy and security policies and procedures, any failure or perceived failure to adequately protect sensitive information may result in negative publicity and / or proceedings or actions against us by government entities or others, which could potentially have an adverse effect on our business. Most states and the District of Columbia have enacted notification rules concerning privacy and data protection. It is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. If so, in addition to the possibility of fines, this could result in an order requiring that we change our data practices, which could have a material effect on our business. Complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. - 22 - Table of Contents The Failure of our Insurance Carriers or Financial Institutions could have a Material Adverse Effect on Us We contract with various insurance carriers to provide certain insurance coverages as a part of our Workforce Optimization solution, which includes health insurance, workers’ compensation insurance and employment practices liability insurance. In addition, we obtain insurance coverage for various commercial risks in our business such as property insurance, errors and omissions insurance, general liability insurance, fiduciary liability insurance, automobile liability insurance, and directors’ and officers’ liability insurance. The failure of any insurance carrier providing such coverage could leave us exposed to uninsured risk and could have a material adverse effect upon our business. Please read Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies,” for additional information concerning the potential failure of one of our former workers’ compensation carriers. In conjunction with providing services to clients, we rely on financial institutions to electronically transfer funds for the collection of our comprehensive service fee as well as the payment of wages and associated payroll tax withholdings. Failure by these financial institutions, for any reason, to deliver their services in a timely manner could result in material interruptions to our operations, impact client relations, and result in significant penalties or liabilities to us. New and Higher Federal, State and Local Taxes could have a Material and Adverse Impact on our Financial Condition and Results of Operations Many states and municipalities in which we operate have experienced economic slowdowns, as has the nation as a whole. This decline in economic activity has resulted in reductions of tax revenues and corresponding budget deficits. In response to the budget shortfalls, many states and municipalities have increased or enacted new taxes on businesses operating within their tax jurisdiction, including but not limited to, business activity taxes and income taxes. In addition, many federal, state and local taxing agencies have increased their audit activity in an effort to identify additional tax revenues. New tax assessments on our operations could result in increased costs. Please read Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies,” for additional information regarding the tax assessment by the State of Massachusetts. Our ability to adjust our service fees and incorporate additional tax assessments into our billing system could be limited. As a result, such higher taxes could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Failure to Integrate or Realize the Expected Return on our Acquisitions could have a Material and Adverse Impact on our Financial Condition and Results of Operations We have adopted a strategy to market and sell additional products and services within and outside of the core Workforce Optimization solution. As a part of this strategy, periodically we make strategic long-term decisions to invest in and/or acquire new companies, business units or assets. New business strategies including the cross-selling of adjacent business offerings to Workforce Optimization clients and the acquisition or development of new businesses involve risk, including those associated with integrating the operations, technologies and personnel. Failure to effectively integrate newly acquired businesses could result in us not achieving anticipated revenues and cost savings. Acquiring new businesses and implementing new selling strategies could also result in the loss of prospective or existing customers, employees or the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. During the fourth quarter of 2012, we recorded an impairment charge of $4.2 million in our Performance Management reporting unit in connection with our annual goodwill impairment assessment. In addition, based on market conditions or changes in operating plans, the fair value of our other acquired businesses could decline, requiring us to record additional impairment charges for all or portions of the investments. The failure to effectively implement new selling strategies, the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, failure to integrate new acquisitions or the occurrence of impairment, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results. Please read Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” for additional information regarding the impairment charge. - 23 - Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 