Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information included and incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the listing of factors that may affect future results presented on page i, “Forward-Looking Statements and Factors That May Affect Future Results,” you should carefully consider the following risks before making an investment decision concerning Caremark Rx, Inc. common stock. You should also read and consider the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the other documents incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. See Part I, Item 1, “Business—Address and Availability of Information” on page 1. Risks Related to Our Business The PBM industry is extremely competitive and competition could impair our ability to maintain existing customers and attract new customers, which could harm our business and financial results. The pharmacy benefits management industry in which we operate is extremely competitive. Competitors in the pharmacy benefits management industry include large national pharmacy benefit management companies, such as Medco Health Solutions, Inc. and Express Scripts, Inc., as well as many local or regional PBMs. In addition, there are several large health insurers and managed care plans (e.g., Wellpoint, Aetna, CIGNA, United Healthcare) and retail pharmacies (e.g., CVS, Walgreens) which have their own PBM capabilities as well as several other national and regional companies that provide some or all of the same services. Some of these competitors may offer services and pricing terms that we may not be able to offer. In addition, competition may also come from other sources in the future. As a result, competition could have an adverse effect on its business and results of operations. If we lose relationships with one or more key pharmaceutical manufacturers or if the payments made by pharmaceutical manufacturers decline, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. We have business relationships with numerous pharmaceutical manufacturers that pay rebates, administrative fees or other discounts based on use of selected drugs by participants in the benefit plans we manage for our customers. We also have contractual arrangements under which we receive fees from pharmaceutical manufacturers for other programs and services that we provide. Our business and financial results could be adversely affected if: • we were to lose relationships with one or more key pharmaceutical manufacturers; • rebates or other discounts decline due to changes in utilization of specified pharmaceutical products by health plan sponsors and other clients; • legal restrictions are imposed on the ability of pharmaceutical manufacturers to offer rebates, administrative fees or other discounts or to purchase our programs or services; or • pharmaceutical manufacturers choose not to offer rebates, administrative fees or other discounts or to purchase our programs or services. 19 Index to Financial Statements Changes in industry pricing benchmarks could adversely affect our financial performance. Contracts in the prescription drug industry, including our contracts with our retail pharmacy networks as well as our contracts with clients for PBM and Specialty services, generally use certain published benchmarks to establish pricing for prescription drugs. These benchmarks include average wholesale price (“AWP”), average selling price (“ASP”) and wholesale acquisition cost (“WAC”). Most of our client contracts utilize the AWP standard. Recent events have raised uncertainties as to whether payors, pharmacy providers, PBMs and others in the prescription drug industry will continue to utilize AWP as it has previously been calculated or whether other pricing benchmarks will be adopted for establishing prices within the industry. Specifically, in the recently announced proposed settlement in the case of New England Carpenters Health Benefits Fund, et al. v. First DataBank, et al., a civil class action case brought against FDB, one of several companies that report data on prescription drug prices, and McKesson Corporation, FDB has agreed to reduce the reported AWP of certain drugs by four percent and to discontinue the publishing of AWP at a future time as contemplated by the settlement. At this time, the proposed settlement has not received final court approval. The court could approve the proposed settlement in part, in its entirety, or not at all. We cannot predict the outcome of this case, or, if the settlement is approved, the precise timing of any of the proposed AWP changes or the effect of such changes, if any, on the financial performance of the Company. Over 90% of our client relationships and most of our relationships with other affected parties contain terms that we believe will enable us to mitigate the adverse effect of this proposed reduction in FDB’s reported AWP. Two other publicly traded large national PBMs have also stated that their contractual relationships contain similar terms. However, because in some cases payors may seek to negotiate with PBMs in an effort to reduce prescription drug costs as a result of a reduction in FBD’s reported AWP, the ultimate effect of this development on the Company cannot be precisely predicted. Whatever the outcome of the FDB case, it is possible that payors, pharmacy providers and PBMs will begin to evaluate other pricing benchmarks as the basis for contracting for prescription drugs and pharmacy benefit management services in the future. We may be subject to liability claims for damages and other expenses that are not covered by insurance. A successful product, professional liability or other claim in excess of our insurance coverage could harm our financial condition and results of operations. Various aspects of our business may subject us to litigation and liability for damages, including the performance of PBM services, including formulary management and health improvement and clinical services, and the operation of our pharmacies and websites. We believe that most of the claims described in Note 14, “Contingencies,” to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K are unlikely to be covered by insurance. Existing and new government legislative and regulatory action could adversely affect our business and financial results. As a participant in the healthcare and PBM industries, our operations are subject to complex and evolving federal and state laws and regulations and enforcement by federal and state governmental agencies. These laws and regulations are described in detail at Part I, Item 1, “Business—Government Regulation.” Uncertainty regarding the impact of Medicare Part D may adversely affect our business and financial results. The MMA created the Medicare Drug Benefit starting in January 2006. Medicare beneficiaries entitled to Medicare benefits under Part A or enrolled in Medicare Part B are eligible for the Medicare Drug Benefit under 20 Index to Financial Statements Medicare Part D. The MMA also created a subsidy available to certain employer, union and other group plans that provide retiree coverage to Part D eligible individuals that is at least equivalent to Part D coverage (the “retiree drug subsidy”). Regulations implementing the Medicare Drug Benefit were published beginning in January 2005 and include, without limitation, requirements relating to developing and administering formularies, establishing pharmacy networks, processing and adjudicating claims at point of sale and compliance with electronic prescribing standards. We participate in the administration of the Medicare Drug Benefit through the provision of PBM services to our health plan clients and other clients that have qualified as a Medicare Part D prescription drug plan. We also participate (i) through the offering of Medicare Part D pharmacy benefits by SilverScript, which has been approved by CMS as a Medicare Part D PDP in all regions of the country, and (ii) by assisting employer, union and other health plan clients that qualify for the retiree drug subsidy available under Medicare Part D by collecting and submitting eligibility and/or drug cost data to CMS for them in order to obtain the subsidy. Our clients could decide to discontinue providing prescription drug benefits to their Medicare-eligible members. If this occurs, the adverse effects of the Medicare Drug Benefit may outweigh any opportunities for new business generated by the new benefit. We are not yet able to assess the impact that Medicare Part D will have on clients’ decisions to continue to offer a prescription drug benefit to their Medicare-eligible members. In addition, if the cost and complexity of the Medicare Drug Benefit exceed management’s expectations or prevent effective program implementation or administration; if the government alters or reduces funding of Medicare programs because of the higher-than-anticipated cost to taxpayers of the MMA or for other reasons; if the government alters the provision in the MMA prohibiting the government from interfering in drug price negotiations with manufacturers; if we fail to design and maintain programs that are attractive to Medicare participants; or if we are not successful in retaining enrollees, or winning contract renewals or new contracts under the MMA’s competitive bidding process, our business and our ability to expand our Medicare operations could be materially and adversely affected, and our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Finally, the MMA mandated risk corridors (in which the federal government shares in the drug cost risk borne by Part D plans) are scheduled to change in 2008. Both the risk corridor thresholds and the level of risk-sharing will change with the result that Medicare Drug Benefit sponsors will assume an increased level of drug cost risk starting in 2008. Therefore, to the extent that SilverScript’s actual drug costs are higher or lower than those estimated by it in its bid in 2008 onwards, the federal government will share a smaller portion of the losses or gains respectively than it otherwise would have prior to 2008. Efforts to reduce health care costs and alter health care financing practices could adversely affect our business. During the past several years, the U.S. healthcare industry has been subject to an increase in governmental regulation at both the federal and state levels. Efforts to control healthcare costs, including prescription drug costs, are underway at the federal and state government levels. Changing political, economic and regulatory influences may affect health care financing and reimbursement practices. If the current health care financing and reimbursement system changes significantly, our business could be materially adversely affected. Congress periodically considers proposals to reform the U.S. health care system. These proposals may increase government involvement in health care and regulation of PBM services, or otherwise change the way we or our clients do business. Health plan sponsors may react to these proposals and the uncertainty surrounding them by reducing or delaying purchases of cost control mechanisms and related services that we provide. We cannot predict what effect, if any, these proposals may have on our business. Other legislative or market-driven changes in the health care system that we cannot anticipate could also materially adversely affect our consolidated results of operations, consolidated financial position and/or consolidated cash flow from operations. We are the subject of various legal proceedings. We are parties to legal proceedings challenging certain of our business practices. The material legal proceedings affecting us are described in detail in Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.” If any of these or new 21 Index to Financial Statements proceedings are determined adversely for us, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Prescription volumes may decline, and our net revenues and profitability may be negatively impacted, when products are withdrawn from the market or when increased safety risk profiles of specific drugs result in utilization decreases. We process significant volumes of pharmacy claims for brand name and generic drugs from our mail service pharmacies and through our network of retail pharmacies. These volumes are the basis for our net revenues and profitability. When products are withdrawn by manufacturers, or when increased safety risk profiles of specific drugs or classes of drugs result in utilization decreases, physicians may cease writing or reduce the numbers of prescriptions written for these drugs. Additionally, negative media reports regarding drugs with higher safety risk profiles may result in reduced consumer demand for such drugs. In cases where there are no acceptable prescription drug equivalents or alternatives for these prescription drugs, our prescription volumes, net revenues, profitability and cash flows may decline. Risk Factors Related to the Proposed Merger with CVS As described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have entered into an agreement to merge with CVS. Our ability to complete the Merger with CVS is subject to risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risk that a condition to closing of the transaction may not be satisfied, the risk that a regulatory approval that may be required for the transaction is not obtained or is obtained subject to conditions that are not anticipated, and other risks to consummation of the transaction. Additional risk factors associated with the proposed Merger with CVS are as follows: Our business could be adversely impacted by uncertainty related to the proposed Merger with CVS. Whether or not the Merger is completed, the announcement and pendency of the Merger could impact or cause disruptions in our business, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, including: • our current clients may experience uncertainty associated with the Merger and may attempt to negotiate changes in existing business relationships or consider entering into business relationships with parties other than us, either before or after completion of the Merger and we may face additional challenges in competing for new and renewal business; • our employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company, which might adversely affect our ability to retain and hire key managers and other employees; • the attention of our management may be directed toward the completion of the Merger and transaction-related considerations and may be diverted from the day-to-day business operations of our business; and • pharmaceutical manufacturers, retail pharmacies, pharmacy benefit management companies or other vendors or suppliers may seek to modify or terminate their business relationships with us. Approximately one third of a PBM’s customer base typically is subject to renewal each year, and therefore we may face additional challenges in competing for new business and retaining or renewing business. Our largest client, the Federal Employees Health Benefits Plan, is currently subject to renewal for services beginning January 1, 2008. There can be no assurance that we will be able to secure renewal of this business; however, such renewal is not a condition to the completion of the Merger. These disruptions could be exacerbated by a delay in the completion of the Merger or termination of the Merger Agreement and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects if the Merger is not completed or of the combined company if the Merger is completed. 22 Index to Financial Statements Failure to complete the Merger could negatively impact our stock price and our future business and financial results. If the proposed Merger is not completed, our ongoing business may be adversely affected and we will be subject to several risks, including the following: • being required, under certain circumstances under the CVS Merger Agreement, to pay CVS a termination fee of $675 million; • having incurred certain costs relating to the proposed Merger that are payable whether or not the Merger is completed; • the attention of our management will have been diverted to the Merger instead of on our operations and pursuit of other opportunities that could have been beneficial to us; and • customer perception may be negatively impacted which could affect our ability to compete for, or to win, new and renewal business in the marketplace. Even if the proposed Merger is completed, the combined company will be subject to certain risks associated with the Merger. In particular, the stock price and the business of the combined company could be adversely affected by certain risks associated with the Merger, including: • The combined company may be unable to successfully integrate ours and CVS’ operations or to realize the anticipated cost savings and other benefits of the Merger; • The combined company may be unable to retain key employees, and key employees may depart because of issues relating to uncertainty or difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with the combined company; • As the businesses of Caremark Rx and CVS are different, the results of operations as well as the price of the combined company common stock may be affected by factors different than those factors affecting Caremark Rx as an independent stand-alone entity; • The Merger may not be accretive and may cause dilution to the combined company’s earnings per share, which may harm the market price of the combined company’s common stock; • In accordance with U.S. GAAP, the Merger will be accounted for using the purchase method of accounting, which will result in charges to the combined company’s earnings that could adversely affect the market value of the combined company’s common stock following the completion of the Merger; and • The combined company will incur significant transaction and merger-related costs in connection with the Merger. Our business could be adversely impacted by uncertainty related to, and costs associated with, the exchange offer commenced by Express Scripts, Inc. On January 16, 2007, Express Scripts launched an exchange offer to acquire all of the outstanding shares of Caremark Rx common stock for (a) $29.25 in cash, less any applicable withholding taxes and without interest and (b) 0.426 shares of Express Scripts common stock for each share of Caremark Rx common stock. On January 24, 2007, our board of directors reaffirmed that the Express Scripts proposal does not constitute, and is not reasonably likely to lead to, a “Superior Proposal” (as defined in the Merger Agreement) and that engaging in discussions with Express Scripts is not in the best interests of Caremark Rx and its stockholders. Express Scripts’ exchange offer, and its ongoing solicitation of proxies from Caremark Rx stockholders to vote against the CVS Merger, could impact or cause disruptions in our business, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, including: 23 Index to Financial Statements • our current clients may experience uncertainty associated with the exchange offer and proxy solicitation and may attempt to negotiate changes in existing business relationships or consider entering into business relationships with parties other than us; • we may face additional challenges in competing for new and renewal business, and the pendency or completion of any acquisition of Caremark Rx by Express Scripts could result in customer attrition, including an estimated $8 billion in lost revenue and a $300 million reduction in earnings before interest and taxes (“EBIT”), a metric commonly used to gauge a company’s profitability and financial health; • our employees or prospective employees may experience uncertainty about job security, which might adversely affect our ability to retain and hire key managers and other employees; • the attention of our management may be directed toward considerations related to the exchange offer and proxy solicitation and may be diverted from the day-to-day business operations of our business; and • pharmaceutical manufacturers, retail pharmacies, pharmacy benefit management companies or other vendors or suppliers may experience uncertainty associated with the exchange offer and proxy solicitation and may seek to modify or terminate their business relationships with us. Additionally, risks associated with our proposed Merger with CVS, which is further described at “Business—Proposed Merger with CVS,” are set forth under the caption “Risk Factors” in the Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Registration No 333-139470), filed by CVS Corporation. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 