ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.Factors That May Affect Future Results and the Market Price of Common StockAdverse Economic Conditions Could Negatively Affect our Industry, Business and Results of OperationsThe small and medium-sized business market is sensitive to changes in economic activity levels as well as the credit markets. As a result, the demand for the outsourced HR services we provide clients could be adversely impacted by weak economic conditions or difficulty obtaining credit. Current and prospective clients may respond to such conditions by reducing employment levels, compensation levels, employee benefit levels and outsourced HR services. In addition, during periods of weak economic levels, current clients may have difficulty meeting their financial obligations to us and may select alternative HR services at more competitive rates than we offer. Such developments could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and future growth rates.We Assume Liability for Worksite Employee Payroll, Payroll Taxes and Benefits Costs and are Responsible for their Payment Regardless of the Amount Billed to or Paid by our ClientsUnder the CSA, we become a co-employer of worksite employees and assume the obligations to pay the salaries, wages and related benefits costs and payroll taxes of such worksite employees. We assume such obligations as a principal, not as an agent of the client. Our obligations include responsibility for:•payment of the salaries and wages for work performed by worksite employees, regardless of whether the client timely pays us the associated service fee•withholding and payment of federal and state payroll taxes with respect to wages and salaries reported by Insperity•providing benefits to worksite employees even if our costs to provide such benefits exceed the fees the client pays usIf a client does not pay us, or if the costs of benefits we provide to worksite employees exceed the fees a client pays us, our ultimate liability for worksite employee payroll and benefits costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Increases in Health Insurance Costs or Inability to Secure Replacement Contracts on Competitive Terms Could have a Material Adverse Effect on our Financial Condition or Results of OperationsMaintaining health insurance plans that cover worksite employees is a significant part of our business. Our primary health insurance contract expires on December 31, 2015, subject to cancellation by either party upon 180 days notice. In the event we are unable to secure replacement contracts on competitive terms, significant disruption to our business could occur.Health insurance costs are in part determined by our claims experience and comprise a significant portion of our direct costs. If we experience an increase in the number or severity of claims, our health insurance costs could increase. Claim activity levels are impacted by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, macro-economic changes, proposed and enacted regulatory changes and medical outbreaks. Contractual arrangements with our clients limit our ability to incorporate such increases into service fees, which could result in a delay before such increases could be reflected in service fees. As a result, such increases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. For additional information related to our health insurance costs, please read Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates – Benefits Costs.”Health Care Reform Could Affect Our Health Insurance Plan and Could Lead to a Significant Disruption in our BusinessThe PPACA was signed into law on March 23, 2010. The PPACA was subsequently amended on March 30, 2010 by the Reconciliation Act. The PPACA and Reconciliation Act (collectively the “Act”) entail sweeping health care reforms with staggered effective dates from 2010 through 2018, and many provisions in the Act require the issuance of additional guidance from the U.S. Department of Labor, the IRS, the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services (“HHS”), and the states.Beginning in 2014, a number of key provisions of the Act take effect including, the establishment of state insurance exchanges (“Exchanges”), insurance market reforms and the imposition of excise taxes on the health insurance industry and reinsurance taxes on insurers and third party administrators. Additionally, the pay or play penalties on large employers take effect in 2015. Collectively, these items have the potential to significantly change the insurance marketplace for small and - 17 -Table of Contentsmedium sized businesses and how employers provide insurance to employees. In addition, as a co-employer in the PEO relationship, we assume or share many of the employer-related responsibilities and assist our clients in complying with many employment-related governmental regulations. Generally, the Act and subsequently issued guidance by IRS and HHS have not addressed or in some instances are unclear as to their application in the PEO relationship or whether such provisions should be applied at the PEO or client level.We are currently unable to determine the impact of the Act on our benefit plans, business model and future results of operations. In future periods, the changes may result in increased costs to us and could affect our ability to attract and retain clients. Additionally, contractual arrangements and competitive market conditions may limit or delay our ability to increase service fees to offset any associated potential increased costs. For additional information related to PPACA, please read Item 1. “Business – Industry Regulations – Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.”Increases in Workers’ Compensation Costs or Inability to Secure Replacement Coverage on Competitive Terms Could Lead to a Significant Disruption to our BusinessOur workers’ compensation coverage has been provided through an arrangement with ACE since 2007. Under our current arrangement with ACE, we bear the economic burden for the first $1 million layer of claims per occurrence and the economic burden for claims over $1 million, up to a maximum aggregate amount of $5 million per policy year for claims that exceed the first $1 million. ACE bears the burden for all claims in excess of these levels. The ACE Program is a fully insured policy whereby ACE has the responsibility to pay all claims incurred under the policy regardless of whether we satisfy our responsibilities. For additional discussion of our policy with ACE, please read Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates – Workers’ Compensation Costs.”Workers’ compensation costs are a significant portion of our direct costs. If we were to experience an unexpected large increase in the number or severity of claims, our workers’ compensation costs could increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.The current workers’ compensation coverage with ACE expires on September 30, 2014. In the event we are unable to secure replacement coverage on competitive terms, significant disruption to our business could occur.Our Ability to Adjust and Collect Service Fees for Increases in Unemployment Tax Rates May be LimitedWe record our SUI tax expense based on taxable wages and tax rates assigned by each state. State unemployment tax rates vary by state and are determined, in part, based on prior years’ compensation experience in each state. Prior to the receipt of final tax rate notices, we estimate our expected SUI tax rate in those states for which tax rate notices have not yet been received for purposes of pricing. In a period of adverse economic conditions state unemployment funds may experience a significant increase in the number of unemployment claims. Accordingly, state unemployment tax rates would likely increase substantially. Some states have the ability under law to increase unemployment tax rates retroactively to cover deficiencies in the unemployment fund. In addition, federal unemployment tax rates may be retroactively increased in certain states in the event the state fails to timely repay federal unemployment loans. Generally, our contractual agreements allow us to incorporate such increases into our service fees upon the effective date of the rate change. However, our ability to fully adjust service fees in our billing systems and collect such increases over the remaining term of the customers’ contracts could be limited, resulting in a potential tax increase not being fully recovered. As a result, such increases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. For additional information related to state unemployment taxes, please read Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies.”Our Contracts May be Canceled on Short Notice. Our Inability to Renew Client Contracts or Attract New Clients Could Materially and Adversely Affect our Financial Conditions and Results of OperationsOur standard CSA can generally be canceled by us or the client with 30 days notice. Accordingly, the short-term nature of the CSA makes us vulnerable to potential cancellations by existing clients, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In the event we have a high proportion of terminating clients from our mid-market customer base (which are generally under a two-year CSA), the financial impact of such an event could be significant. In addition, our results of operations are dependent in part upon our ability to retain or replace our clients upon the termination or cancellation of the CSA. Our client attrition rate was approximately 19% in 2013. There can be no assurance that the number of contract cancellations will continue at these levels and such cancellations may increase in the future due to various factors, including but not limited to, economic conditions in the markets we operate. Clients electing to purchase our - 18 -Table of Contentsservices or electing an alternative solution often do so at the beginning of the calendar year. As a result, we typically experience our largest concentration of new client additions and attrition in the first quarter of each year.Established Competitors and New Market Entrants May Have a Competitive Advantage over UsThe human resources services industry, including the PEO industry, is highly fragmented. Many PEOs have limited operations and fewer than 1,000 worksite employees, but there are several industry participants that are comparable to our size or larger. We also encounter competition from “fee for service” companies such as payroll processing firms, insurance companies, human resources consultants and human resources technology solutions. Our competitors include the PEO divisions of large business services companies, such as Automatic Data Processing, Inc. and Paychex, Inc., and other national PEOs such as TriNet. Other PEOs may offer their PEO services at more competitive prices than we may be able to offer. Moreover, we expect that as the PEO industry grows and its regulatory framework becomes better established, well-organized competition with greater resources than we have may enter the PEO market, possibly including large “fee for service” companies currently providing a more limited range of services. We May be Subject to Liabilities for Client and Employee ActionsA number of legal issues remain unresolved with respect to the co-employment arrangement between a PEO and its worksite employees, including questions concerning the ultimate liability for violations of employment and discrimination laws. Our CSA establishes the contractual division of responsibilities between Insperity and our clients for various personnel management matters, including compliance with and liability under various governmental regulations.Because we act as a co-employer, we may be subject to liability for violations of various employment and discrimination laws despite these contractual provisions, even if we do not participate in such violations. Although the CSA provides that the client is to indemnify us for any liability attributable to the client’s conduct, we may not be able to collect on such a contractual indemnification claim and thus may be responsible for satisfying such liabilities to the extent that such liabilities are not covered or insured against under our insurance policies. In addition, worksite employees may be deemed to be our agents, which may subject us to liability for the actions of such worksite employees.Changes in Federal, State and Local Regulation or our Inability to Obtain Licenses under New Regulatory Frameworks Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on our Results of Operations or Financial ConditionAs a major employer, our operations are affected by numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to labor, tax, benefit, insurance and employment matters. By entering into a co-employer relationship with employees assigned to work at client locations, we assume certain obligations and responsibilities of an employer under these laws. However, many of these laws (such as the Act, ERISA and federal and state employment tax laws) do not specifically address the obligations and responsibilities of non-traditional employers such as PEOs, and the definition of “employer” under these laws is not uniform. In addition, many of the states in which we operate have not addressed the PEO relationship for purposes of compliance with applicable state laws governing the employer/employee relationship. Any adverse application of new or existing federal or state laws to the PEO relationship with our worksite employees and client companies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.While many states do not explicitly regulate PEOs, 41 states have passed laws that have recognition, licensing, certification or registration requirements for PEOs and several other states are considering such regulation. Such laws vary from state to state, but generally provide for monitoring the fiscal responsibility of PEOs, and in some cases codify and clarify the co-employment relationship for unemployment, workers’ compensation and other purposes under state law. While we generally support licensing regulation because it serves to validate the PEO relationship, we may not be able to satisfy licensing requirements or other applicable regulations for all states. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to renew our licenses in all states.Geographic Market Concentration Makes our Results of Operations Vulnerable to Economic FactorsOur New York, California, and Texas (including 13% in Houston) markets accounted for approximately 9%, 18% and 26%, respectively, of our worksite employees for the year ended December 31, 2013. Accordingly, while we have a goal of expanding in our current markets and into new markets, for the foreseeable future, a significant portion of our revenues may be subject to economic factors specific to New York, Texas and California. - 19 -Table of ContentsA Determination that a Client is Liable for Employment Taxes not Paid by a PEO May Discourage Clients from Contracting With Us in the FutureUnder the CSA, we assume sole responsibility and liability for paying federal employment taxes imposed under the Code with respect to wages and salaries we pay our worksite employees. There are essentially three types of federal employment tax obligations:•income tax withholding requirements•FICA•FUTAUnder the Code, employers have the obligation to withhold and remit the employer portion and, where applicable, the employee portion of these taxes. Most states impose similar employment tax obligations on the employer. While the CSA provides that we have sole legal responsibility for making these tax contributions, the IRS or applicable state taxing authority could conclude that such liability cannot be completely transferred to us. Accordingly, in the event that we fail to meet our tax withholding and payment obligations, the client may be held jointly and severally liable for those obligations. While this interpretive issue has not, to our knowledge, discouraged clients from enrolling with Insperity, a definitive adverse resolution of this issue may discourage clients from enrolling in the future.Failure of our Information Technology Systems Could Disrupt the HR Services we Provide to ClientsMany of the HR services offerings we provide to clients is conducted through a network infrastructure using both internally developed and purchased commercial software. The processing of payroll, benefits and other transactions is dependent upon Internet connectivity using high-speed network services provided by third party vendors. Any delays or failures caused by network outages, software or hardware failures, or other data processing disruptions, could result in our inability to timely process transactions. If such failures cause us to not meet client service expectations, we may lose existing clients and may have difficulty attracting new clients. Such developments could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and future growth rates.Potential Disclosure of Sensitive or Private Information Could Damage our Reputation and Impact our Operating ResultsUnauthorized access or unintentional disclosure of personal or confidential information could damage our reputation and operating results. While we strive to comply with all applicable data protection laws and regulations, and maintain stringent privacy and security policies and procedures, any failure or perceived failure to adequately protect sensitive information may result in negative publicity and / or proceedings or actions against us by government entities or others, which could potentially have an adverse effect on our business. Most states and the District of Columbia have enacted notification rules concerning privacy and data protection. It is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. If so, in addition to the possibility of fines, this could result in an order requiring that we change our data practices, which could have a material effect on our business. Complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business.The Failure of our Insurance Carriers or Financial Institutions Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on UsWe contract with various insurance carriers to provide certain insurance coverages as a part of our Workforce Optimization solution, which includes health insurance, workers’ compensation insurance and employment practices liability insurance. In addition, we obtain insurance coverage for various commercial risks in our business such as property insurance, errors and omissions insurance, general liability insurance, fiduciary liability insurance, automobile liability insurance, and directors’ and officers’ liability insurance. The failure of any insurance carrier providing such coverage could leave us exposed to uninsured risk and could have a material adverse effect upon our business.Please read Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies,” for additional information concerning the potential failure of one of our former workers’ compensation carriers.In conjunction with providing services to clients, we rely on financial institutions to electronically transfer funds for the collection of our comprehensive service fee as well as the payment of wages and associated payroll tax withholdings. - 20 -Table of ContentsFailure by these financial institutions, for any reason, to deliver their services in a timely manner could result in material interruptions to our operations, impact client relations, and result in significant penalties or liabilities to us.New and Higher Federal, State and Local Taxes Could have a Material and Adverse Impact on our Financial Condition and Results of OperationsMany states and municipalities in which we operate have experienced economic slowdowns, as has the nation as a whole. This decline in economic activity has resulted in reductions of tax revenues and corresponding budget deficits. In response to the budget shortfalls, many states and municipalities have increased or enacted new taxes on businesses operating within their tax jurisdiction, including but not limited to, business activity taxes and income taxes. In addition, many federal, state and local taxing agencies have increased their audit activity in an effort to identify additional tax revenues. New tax assessments on our operations could result in increased costs. Our ability to adjust our service fees and incorporate additional tax assessments into our billing system could be limited. As a result, such higher taxes could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Please read Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies,” for additional information regarding tax assessments by the State of Texas and the State of Massachusetts. Failure to Integrate or Realize the Expected Return on our Acquisitions and Investments Could Have a Material and Adverse Impact on our Financial Condition and Results of OperationsWe have adopted a strategy to market and sell additional products and services within and outside of the core Workforce Optimization solution. As part of this strategy, periodically we make strategic long-term decisions to invest in and/or acquire new companies, business units or assets. Acquiring new businesses involves a number of risks such as over-valuation of the acquired companies, entering markets or businesses in which we have no prior experience, integrating the technology, operations, and personnel, diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns and litigation resulting from the activities of the acquired company. The occurrence of one or more of these events could result in the loss of existing or prospective clients or employees, not achieving anticipated revenues or profitability, or impairment of acquired assets. Such developments could have a material impact to our financial condition, results of operations and future growth rates.In connection with our annual goodwill impairment assessment, we recorded impairment charges of $3.3 million in our Expense Management reporting unit in 2013 and $4.2 million in our Performance Management reporting unit in 2012. In addition, we recorded a $2.7 million impairment charge related to our minority investment in The Receivables Exchange in 2013. Based on market conditions or changes in operating plans, the fair value of our other acquired businesses could decline, requiring us to record additional impairment charges for all or portions of the investments. Please read Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” for additional information regarding the impairment charges.- 21 -Table of ContentsITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.None. 