Item 1A. RISK FACTORS There are a number of business risks and uncertainties that may adversely affect our financial condition, our results of operations, our liquidity, the trading price of our common shares, and the prospects regarding any of the foregoing—collectively, our business and its prospects. These risks and uncertainties could cause future results to differ from past performance or expected results, including results described in statements elsewhere in this report that constitute “forward-looking statements” under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The risks that we highlight below are NOT the only ones that we face. We discuss in this section some of the risk factors and uncertainties which we consider to be the most relevant to our specific activities and that we believe, if they actually occurred, could materially and adversely affect our business and its prospects. In addition to the risks and uncertainties included below, other risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the additional risk factors included in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Forward-Looking Information.” Additionally, risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial also may adversely impact our business and its prospects. Should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have material adverse effects on our business and its prospects. In addition to historical information, this Annual Report on Form 10-K contains or may contain certain forward-looking statements, within the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Generally, the words “will,” “may,” “should,” “continue,” “believes,” “expects,” “intends,” “anticipates,” “estimates” or similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements involve certain risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements include, among others, the risks and uncertainties identified below and the additional risk factors included in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Forward-Looking Information.” We will sometimes set forth examples to further describe a risk factor or otherwise elaborate on a point by using the word “including.” When we use the word including in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any of our other disclosures, we always mean “including, but not limited to” rather than including all examples. A decline in the demand for fiber optic cable generally or in certain applications or for tight-buffered fiber optic cable specifically or in certain applications, in the markets we target may cause our sales to fall. Fiber optic cable, specifically tight-buffered fiber optic cable, accounts for almost all of our sales. As a result, any decline in the demand for fiber optic cable generally or tight-buffered fiber optic cable specifically will likely adversely affect our business and its prospects, including causing our sales to fall, causing our share price to decline and limiting our future sales prospects. We focus on producing tight-buffered fiber optic cable that is used to connect optical networking equipment in short- to moderate-distance applications, including the enterprise market, and to a lesser extent, the metropolitan and access markets. Our future growth is affected by the rate at which optical networking and related optical cabling are deployed in these markets. The desire of organizations to deploy fiber optic cabling depends on such factors as end-user demand for the increased bandwidth made possible by optical networks, as well as a lack of suitable alternative technologies. Additionally, any decline in the demand for fiber optic cable used in short- to moderate-distance applications, such as metropolitan, access and enterprise networks, will likely adversely affect our business and its prospects, including causing our sales to fall, limiting our prospects for the future sales and causing a decline in our share price. If alternative fiber optic cable constructions, such as loose-tube fiber optic cable, become more accepted as alternatives to tight-buffered fiber optic cable construction in our target markets, then our business and its prospects could be adversely affected, including material decreases in our sales, adverse affects on our future prospects and potential, significant declines in our share price. 6 Table of Contents Our ability to remain competitive in the fiber optic cable market is crucial to our continued success. The market for fiber optic cables, including the short- to moderate-distance markets in which our products are concentrated, is highly competitive. We compete with large, integrated fiber optic cable manufacturers such as Corning Cabling Systems, OFS, and Draka Comteq, as well as with other large fiber optic cable manufacturers such as General Cable, Belden, Nexans (doing business as Berk-Tek), CommScope and others. Some of our competitors are more established, benefit from greater market recognition and have much greater financial, research and development, production and marketing resources than we do. Competition could increase if new companies enter the market or if existing competitors expand their product lines. We are a “microcap” stock with little, if any, coverage by security analysts, and with limited institutional following. Therefore, the price of our common shares is volatile and subject to significant fluctuations. Optical Cable Corporation has a relatively low market capitalization represented by the total number of common shares issued and outstanding multiplied by the price per common share. Often the capital stock of companies with such low market capitalizations are referred to as “microcap” stocks. As a result of this low market capitalization, it is quite difficult for us to secure coverage by security analysts and to convince institutional investors to invest substantial amounts in our common shares. Additionally, our low market capitalization makes it likely that the sale or purchase of even relatively small blocks of our common shares can result in significant fluctuations in the price of our common shares with or without any underlying change in our financial performance. As a result, the price of our common stock is volatile and subject to significant fluctuations. We believe our quarterly results may tend to fluctuate due to many factors, including timing of key projects, changing levels of corporate and government spending, fluctuations in spending in certain specialty markets we target, seasonality, and manufacturing yields and efficiencies. The price of our common shares will likely fall if our quarterly results are lower than the expectations of securities analysts, if any, or our shareholders. We expect our sales and income to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. In future quarters, our operating results may be below the expectations of securities analysts, if any securities analysts are offering coverage of us, or our shareholders. If this occurs, the price of our common shares is likely to fall and you may lose all or part of your investment. A number of factors, many of which are discussed in more detail in other risk factors, may cause variations in the results of our operations, including, but not limited to: • The proportion of our net sales made to distributors relative to other types of customers; • The proportion of large to small orders; • Our product mix, including fluctuations in demand in our target and specialty markets; • The timing of orders that we receive from our customers, including, larger projects; • Fluctuations in spending on fiber optic cable in certain specialty markets we target; • Fluctuations in corporate or government spending; • Seasonality, including affects of weather, construction and annual budgetary cycles on demand; • Changes in the general economic conditions—whether in the U.S., other countries or specific regions that impact spending on fiber optic cabling products; • Changes in the cost and availability of our raw materials; 7 Table of Contents • Our manufacturing capacity, efficiencies and yield; and • Spending for fiber optic cabling in the metropolitan, access and enterprise markets. A significant percentage of our expenses, including those relating to manufacturing, sales and marketing, and general and administrative functions, are relatively fixed in the short term. As a result, if we experience delays in generating or recognizing revenue, our operating results would be disproportionately affected. You should not rely on our results for one quarter as any indication of our future performance. We believe our results of operations may reflect some seasonality. Historically, our sales are lower in the first half of each fiscal year and higher in the second half of each fiscal year, which we believe may be partially due to construction cycles and budgetary cycles of our customers. If our supplier relationships are disrupted or if costs or availability of our raw materials change, our operating results may suffer. Our business and its prospects are affected by the cost and availability of raw materials. We currently rely on a limited number of suppliers for certain of our raw materials, including optical fiber, aramid yarns, plastics and other raw materials. We do not have long-term agreements with all of these suppliers. In fact, some of our suppliers of optical fiber are also major competitors in the market for fiber optic cable. For example, we may buy some of our optical fiber from a supplier that also offers fiber optic cables that compete with our fiber optic cables. These raw materials are critical to our production of fiber optic cables. Our business and its prospects, including our financial condition, future prospects, and results of operations, could be adversely affected by any disruption in our supply of raw materials or any increase in our costs resulting from our suppliers reducing the amount of optical fiber available to us, increasing their prices, lengthening the lead time for orders or otherwise impairing our ability to secure optical fiber, aramid yarns, plastics or other raw materials on competitive terms. Potential strategic alliances may not achieve their objectives. We intend to explore strategic alliances designed to increase the use of our manufacturing capacity, to increase distribution of our products, to secure supplies of raw materials and to expand our product offerings. We may not be successful in developing these strategic alliances. Moreover, alliances that Optical Cable Corporation does develop may not achieve their strategic objectives, and parties to our strategic alliances may not perform as contemplated. If a disaster struck our primary business facility, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be harmed. We believe that our success to date has been, and future results of operations will be, dependent in large part upon our ability to provide prompt and efficient service to our customers. As a result, any disruption of our day-to-day operations could cause a significant decline in our sales, negatively impact our financial performance and cause a decline in our share price. Our manufacturing operations, marketing, management information systems, customer service and distribution functions are housed in a single facility in Roanoke, Virginia. A fire, flood, earthquake, terrorist attack, act of war, military conflict, or any other disaster affecting our facility could disable the functions performed at our Roanoke, Virginia facility. Any significant damage to this facility would have a material adverse effect on our business and its prospects, including our results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 8 Table of Contents 