ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our forward-looking statements are based on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable but that may not prove to be accurate. All of our forward-looking information is, therefore, subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expected. Although it is not possible to identify all factors, these risks and uncertainties include the risk factors discussed below. Future downturns in the oil and gas industry, or in the oilfield services business, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. The oil and gas industry is highly cyclical and demand for the majority of our oilfield products and services is substantially dependent on the level of expenditures by the oil and gas industry for the exploration, development and production of crude oil and natural gas reserves, which are sensitive to oil and natural gas prices and generally dependent on the industry's view of future oil and gas prices. There are numerous factors affecting the supply of and demand for our products and services, which include: - market prices of oil and gas and expectations about future prices; - cost of producing oil and natural gas; - the level of drilling and production activity; - mergers, consolidations and downsizing among our clients; - coordination by OPEC; - the impact of commodity prices on the expenditure levels of our clients; - financial condition of our client base and their ability to fund capital expenditures; - adverse weather conditions; - civil unrest in oil producing countries; - level of consumption of oil, gas and petrochemicals by consumers; and - availability of services and materials for our clients to grow their capital expenditures. The oil and gas industry has historically experienced periodic downturns, which have been characterized by diminished demand for our oilfield products and services and downward pressure on the prices we charge. A significant downturn in the oil and gas industry could result in a reduction in demand for oilfield services and could harm our operating results. We depend on the results of our international operations, which expose us to risks inherent in doing business abroad. We conduct our business in over 50 countries; business outside of the United States accounts for approximately 56%, 58% and 60% of our consolidated revenues during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Our operations are subject to the various laws and regulations of those respective countries as well as various risks peculiar to each country, which may include: - global economic conditions; - political actions and requirements of national governments including trade restrictions, embargoes and expropriations of assets; - potential adjustments to tax liabilities in multiple jurisdictions; - civil unrest; - acts of terrorism; - fluctuations and changes in currency exchange rates; - the impact of inflation; and - current conditions in Venezuela, Nigeria, Iran and Iraq. Historically, economic downturn and political events have resulted in lower demand for our products and services in certain markets. The ongoing conflict in Iraq and the potential for activity from terrorist groups that the U.S. government has cautioned against have further heightened our exposure to international risks. The global economy is highly influenced by public confidence in the geopolitical environment and the situation in the Middle East continues to be highly fluid; therefore, we expect to experience heightened international risks. As a result of the political and financial instability in Venezuela, the Bolivar ("VEB") declined in value relative to other currencies. In February 2003, the Venezuelan government imposed an exchange rate of 1,596 VEB per U.S. dollar ("USD"). In February 2004, the government devalued the VEB by 20% to 1,915 VEB per USD. Effective March 2, 2005, the Venezuelan government devalued the VEB by an additional 12% to 2,147 VEB per USD resulting in a foreign exchange loss of approximately $0.3 million in the first quarter of 2005. At December 31, 2005, our net monetary assets denominated in VEB in Venezuela were $2.1 million. We continue to monitor our operations and financial position in this region. If we are not able to develop or acquire new products or our products become technologically obsolete, our results of operations may be adversely affected. The market for our products and services is characterized by changing technology and frequent product introduction. As a result, our success is dependent upon our ability to develop or acquire new products and services on a cost-effective basis and to introduce them into the marketplace in a timely manner. While we intend to continue committing substantial financial resources and effort to the development of new products and services, we may not be able to successfully differentiate our products and services from those of our competitors. Our clients may not consider our proposed products and services to be of value to them; or if the proposed products and services are of a competitive nature, our clients may not view them as superior to our competitors' products and services. In addition, we may not be able to adapt to evolving markets and technologies, develop new products, or achieve and maintain technological advantages. If we are unable to continue developing competitive products in a timely manner in response to changes in technology, our businesses and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, continuing development of new products inherently carries the risk of inventory obsolescence with respect to our older products. If we are unable to obtain patents, licenses and other intellectual property rights covering our products and services, our operating results may be adversely affected. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patents, licenses and other intellectual property rights covering our products and services. To that end, we have obtained certain patents and intend to continue to seek patents on some of our inventions and services. While we have patented some of our key technologies, we do not patent all of our proprietary technology, even when regarded as patentable. The process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive. There can be no assurance that patents will be issued from currently pending or future applications or that, if patents are issued, they will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. In addition, effective copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain countries. Litigation, which could demand financial and management resources, may be necessary to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights. Also, there ca n be no assurance that we can obtain licenses or other rights to necessary intellectual property on acceptable terms. There are risks related to our acquisition strategy. If we are unable to successfully integrate and manage businesses that we have acquired and any businesses acquired in the future, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. One of our key business strategies is to acquire technologies, operations and assets that are complementary to our existing businesses. There are financial, operational and legal risks inherent in any acquisition strategy, including: - increased financial leverage; - increased interest expense; and - difficulties involved in combining disparate company cultures and facilities. The success of any completed acquisition will depend on our ability to integrate effectively the acquired business into our existing operations. The process of integrating acquired businesses may involve unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of our managerial and financial resources. In addition, possible future acquisitions may be larger and for purchase prices significantly higher than those paid for recent and pending acquisitions. No assurance can be given that we will be able to continue to identify additional suitable acquisition opportunities, negotiate acceptable terms, obtain financing for acquisitions on acceptable terms or successfully acquire identified targets. Our failure to achieve consolidation savings, to incorporate the acquired businesses and assets into our existing operations successfully or to minimize any unforeseen operational difficulties could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. We are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations, which may result in increased costs to our business. We are subject to a variety of governmental regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of chemicals and gases used in our analytical and manufacturing processes. Environmental claims or the failure to comply with present or future environmental laws and regulations could result in the assessment of damages or imposition of fines against us or the suspension or cessation of operations. New regulations could require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses. If we fail to control the use, or adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances, we could be subject to future material liabilities. In addition, public interest in the protection of the environment has increased dramatically in recent years. We anticipate that the trend of more expansive and stricter environmental laws and regulations will continue, the occurrence of which may require us to increase our capital expenditures or could result in increased operating expenses. Because we are a Netherlands company, it may be difficult for you to sue our supervisory directors or us and it may not be possible to obtain or enforce judgments against us. Although we are a Netherlands company, our assets are located in a variety of countries. In addition, not all members of our supervisory board of directors are residents of the same countries as other supervisory directors. As a result, it may not be possible for you to effect service of process within certain countries upon our supervisory directors, or to enforce against our supervisory directors or us judgments of courts of certain countries predicated upon civil liabilities under a country's federal securities laws. Because there is no treaty between certain countries and The Netherlands providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments, some countries' judgments are not automatically enforceable in The Netherlands or in the United States, where the principal market for our shares is located. In addition, there is doubt as to whether a court in one country would impose civil liability on us or on the members of our supervisory board of directors in an original actio n brought against us or our supervisory directors in a court of competent jurisdiction in another country and predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of that other country. Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Table of Contents 