ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSOur forward-looking statements are based on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable but that may not prove to be accurate. All of our forward-looking information is, therefore, subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expected. All known, material risks and uncertainties are discussed below.Future downturns in the oil and gas industry, or in the oilfield services business, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.The oil and gas industry is highly cyclical and demand for the majority of our oilfield products and services is substantially dependent on the level of expenditures by the oil and gas industry for the exploration, development and production of crude oil and natural gas reserves, which are sensitive to oil and natural gas prices and generally dependent on the industry's view of future oil and gas prices. There are numerous factors affecting the supply of and demand for our products and services, which are summarized as:▪general and economic business conditions;▪market prices of oil and gas and expectations about future prices;▪cost of producing and the ability to deliver oil and natural gas;▪the level of drilling and production activity;▪mergers, consolidations and downsizing among our clients;▪coordination by OPEC;▪the impact of commodity prices on the expenditure levels of our clients;▪financial condition of our client base and their ability to fund capital expenditures;▪the physical effects of adverse weather;▪the adoption of legal requirements or taxation that lowers the demand for petroleum-based fuels;▪civil unrest or political uncertainty in oil producing or consuming countries;▪level of consumption of oil, gas and petrochemicals by consumers;▪changes in existing laws, regulations, or other governmental actions;▪the business opportunities (or lack thereof) that may be presented to and pursued by us;▪availability of services and materials for our clients to grow their capital expenditures; and▪availability of materials and equipment from key suppliers.The oil and gas industry has historically experienced periodic downturns, which have been characterized by diminished demand for our oilfield products and services and downward pressure on the prices we charge. A significant downturn in the oil and gas industry could result in a reduction in demand for oilfield services and could adversely affect our operating results.We depend on the results of our international operations, which expose us to risks inherent in doing business abroad.We conduct our business in over 50 countries; business outside of the United States accounted for approximately 49%, 50% and 52% of our revenue during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. Not included in the foregoing percentages are significant levels of our revenues recorded in the U.S. that are sourced from projects on foreign oilfields. Our operations are subject to the various laws and regulations of those respective countries as well as various risks peculiar to each country, which may include, but are not limited to:▪global economic conditions;▪political actions and requirements of national governments including trade restrictions, embargoes, seizure, detention, nationalization and expropriations of assets;▪interpretation of tax statutes and requirements of taxing authorities worldwide, routine examination by taxing authorities and assessment of additional taxes, penalties and/or interest;▪civil unrest;7▪acts of terrorism;▪fluctuations and changes in currency exchange rates (see section below);▪the impact of inflation;▪difficulty in repatriating foreign currency received in excess of the local currency requirements; and▪current conditions in oil producing countries such as Venezuela, Nigeria, Libya, Iran and Iraq considering their potential impact on the world markets.Historically, economic downturn and political events have resulted in lower demand for our products and services in certain markets. The continuing instability in the Middle East and the potential for activity from terrorist groups that the U.S. government has cautioned against have further heightened our exposure to international risks. The global economy is highly influenced by public confidence in the geopolitical environment and the situation in the Middle East continues to be highly fluid; therefore, we expect to experience heightened international risks.Our results of operations may be significantly affected by foreign currency exchange rate risk.We are exposed to risks due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. By the nature of our business, we derive a substantial amount of our revenue from our international operations, subjecting us to risks relating to fluctuations in currency exchange rates.Our results of operations may be adversely affected because our efforts to comply with U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the "FCPA") could restrict our ability to do business in foreign markets relative to our competitors who are not subject to U.S. law.We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. We may be subject to competitive disadvantages to the extent that our competitors are able to secure business, licenses or other preferential treatment by making payments to government officials and others in positions of influence or through other methods that U.S. law and regulations prohibit us from using.Because we are registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, we are subject to the regulations imposed by the FCPA, which generally prohibits us and our intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business. In particular, we may be held liable for actions taken by our strategic or local partners even though our partners are not subject to the FCPA. Any such violations could result in substantial civil and/or criminal penalties and might adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, our ability to continue to work in these parts of the world discussed above could be adversely affected if we were found to have violated certain U.S. laws, including the FCPA.If we are not able to develop or acquire new products or our products become technologically obsolete, our results of operations may be adversely affected.The market for our products and services is characterized by changing technology and product introduction. As a result, our success is dependent upon our ability to develop or acquire new products and services on a cost-effective basis and to introduce them into the marketplace in a timely manner. While we intend to continue committing substantial financial resources and effort to the development of new products and services, we may not be able to successfully differentiate our products and services from those of our competitors. Our clients may not consider our proposed products and services to be of value to them; or if the proposed products and services are of a competitive nature, our clients may not view them as superior to our competitors' products and services. In addition, we may not be able to adapt to evolving markets and technologies, develop new products, or achieve and maintain technological advantages.If we are unable to continue developing competitive products in a timely manner in response to changes in technology, our businesses and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, continuing development of new products inherently carries the risk of inventory obsolescence with respect to our older products.If we are unable to obtain patents, licenses and other intellectual property rights covering our products and services, our operating results may be adversely affected.Our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain patents, licenses and other intellectual property rights covering our 8products and services. To that end, we have obtained certain patents and intend to continue to seek patents on some of our inventions and services. While we have patented some of our key technologies, we do not patent all of our proprietary technology, even when regarded as patentable. The process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive. There can be no assurance that patents will be issued from currently pending or future applications or that, if patents are issued, they will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. In addition, effective copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain countries. Litigation, which could demand significant financial and management resources, may be necessary to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights. Also, there can be no assurance that we can obtain licenses or other rights to necessary intellectual property on acceptable terms.There are risks relating to our acquisition strategy. If we are unable to successfully integrate and manage businesses that we have acquired and any businesses acquired in the future, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.One of our key business strategies is to acquire technologies, operations and assets that are complementary to our existing businesses. There are financial, operational and legal risks inherent in any acquisition strategy, including:▪increased financial leverage;▪ability to obtain additional financing;▪increased interest expense; and▪difficulties involved in combining disparate company cultures and facilities.The success of any completed acquisition will depend on our ability to integrate effectively the acquired business into our existing operations. The process of integrating acquired businesses may involve unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of our managerial and financial resources. In addition, possible future acquisitions may be larger and for purchase prices significantly higher than those paid for earlier acquisitions. No assurance can be given that we will be able to continue to identify additional suitable acquisition opportunities, negotiate acceptable terms, obtain financing for acquisitions on acceptable terms or successfully acquire identified targets. Our failure to achieve consolidation savings, to incorporate the acquired businesses and assets into our existing operations successfully or to minimize any unforeseen operational difficulties could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation.We are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations, which may result in increased costs and significant liability to our business.We are subject to a variety of stringent governmental laws and regulations both in the United States and abroad relating to protection of the environment and the use and storage of chemicals and gases used in our analytical and manufacturing processes and the discharge and disposal of wastes generated by those processes. Certain of these laws and regulations may impose joint and several, strict liability for environmental liabilities, such as the remediation of historical contamination or recent spills, and failure to comply with such laws and regulations could result in the assessment of damages, fines and penalties, the imposition of remedial or corrective action obligations or the suspension or cessation of some or all of our operations. These stringent laws and regulations could require us to acquire permits or other authorizations to conduct regulated activities, install and maintain costly equipment and pollution control technologies, or to incur costs or liabilities to mitigate or remediate pollution conditions caused by our operations or attributable to former operators. If we fail to control the use, or adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances or wastes, we could be subject to future material liabilities including remedial obligations. In addition, public interest in the protection of the environment has increased dramatically in recent years with governmental authorities imposing more stringent and restrictive requirements. We anticipate that the trend of more expansive and stricter environmental laws and regulations will continue, the occurrence of which may require us to increase our capital expenditures or could result in increased operating expenses.For example, in the United States, the federal Congress has, from time to time, considered legislation that could be introduced and adopted in the current session of Congress, in which event such adopted laws or any implementing regulations could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. This legislation could include or arise from the following:▪Climate Change. Congress has from time to time considered legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases (“GHGs”), primarily through the establishment of a “cap-and-trade” plan for GHGs, but no such legislation has been adopted by Congress. It is not possible at this time to predict whether or when Congress may introduce and adopt climate change legislation. In addition, based on determinations made by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 9(“EPA”) in December 2009 that emissions of GHGs present a danger to public health and the environment, the EPA adopted regulations that restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act, including one that requires a reduction in emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles and another that requires certain construction and operating permit reviews for GHG emissions from certain large stationary sources. Also, the EPA adopted rules requiring the monitoring and reporting of GHGs from certain sources, including, among others, onshore and offshore oil and natural gas production facilities, and almost one-half of the states already have taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs, primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG cap and trade programs. Adoption and implementation of laws and regulations limiting emissions of GHGs from our equipment or operations could require us to incur costs to comply with such requirements and also could adversely affect demand for the production of oil and natural gas by our customers and thus reduce demand for the services we provide to the oil and natural gas industry.▪Hydraulic Fracturing. From time to time, legislation has been introduced before Congress to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing under the Safe Drinking Water Act and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process, which disclosed information could be proprietary in nature. At the state level, several states have adopted or are considering legal requirements that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure, and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities. Moreover, the EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority under the Safe Drinking Water Act, as amended (“SDWA”) over hydraulic fracturing involving diesel. While it is not possible at this time to predict whether or when Congress may introduce and adopt legislation restricting hydraulic fracturing activities under the SDWA or other regulatory mechanisms, if new or more stringent federal, state, or local legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where our oil and natural gas exploration and production customers operate, those customers could incur significant added costs to comply with such requirements and experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development or production activities, which could reduce demand for our products and services. Although Core Laboratories is not a hydraulic fracturing company, it does supply and utilize chemicals during such processes for reservoir diagnostic purposes. In addition, certain governmental reviews are either underway or being proposed that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. The EPA has commenced a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater, with initial results expected to be available by late 2012 and final results by 2014 and, more recently, the EPA announced plans to develop effluent limitations for the treatment and discharge of wastewater resulting from hydraulic fracturing activities by 2014. The White House Council on Environmental Quality is coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic fracturing practices, and a committee of the United States House of Representatives has conducted an investigation of hydraulic fracturing practices. Other governmental agencies, including the U.S. Department of Energy and the U.S. Department of the Interior, are evaluating various other aspects of hydraulic fracturing. These ongoing or proposed studies, depending on their degree of pursuit and any meaningful results obtained, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the federal SDWA or other regulatory mechanisms, which events could delay or curtail production of oil and natural gas by our exploration and production customers and thus reduce demand for our business.We may be unable to attract and retain skilled and technically knowledgeable employees, which could adversely affect our business. Our success depends upon attracting and retaining highly skilled professionals and other technical personnel. A number of our employees are highly skilled engineers, geologists and highly trained technicians, and our failure to continue to attract and retain such individuals could adversely affect our ability to compete in the oilfield services industry. We may confront significant and potentially adverse competition for these skilled and technically knowledgeable personnel, particularly during periods of increased demand for oil and gas. Additionally, at times there may be a shortage of skilled and technical personnel available in the market, potentially compounding the difficulty of attracting and retaining these employees. As a result, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. We require a significant amount of cash to service our indebtedness, and our ability to generate cash may depend on factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, and to fund planned capital expenditures depends, in part, on our ability to generate cash in the future. This ability is, to a certain extent, subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. 10No assurance can be given that we will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to service and repay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to satisfy our debt obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our indebtedness, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. We cannot assure that any refinancing or debt restructuring would be possible or, if possible, would be completed on favorable or acceptable terms, that any assets could be sold or that, if sold, the timing of the sales and the amount of proceeds realized from those sales would be favorable to us or that additional financing could be obtained on acceptable terms. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect our ability to refinance our indebtedness, including our ability to borrow under our existing Credit Facility. Banks that are party to our existing Credit Facility may not be able to meet their funding commitments to us if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from us and other borrowers within a short period of time.Because we are a Netherlands company, it may be difficult for you to sue our supervisory directors or us and it may not be possible to obtain or enforce judgments against us. Although we are a Netherlands company, our assets are located in a variety of countries. In addition, not all members of our supervisory board of directors are residents of the same countries as other supervisory directors. As a result, it may not be possible for you to effect service of process within certain countries upon our supervisory directors, or to enforce against our supervisory directors or us judgments of courts of certain countries predicated upon civil liabilities under a country's federal securities laws. Because there is no treaty between certain countries and The Netherlands providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments, some countries' judgments are not automatically enforceable in The Netherlands or in the United States, where the principal market for our shares is located. In addition, there is doubt as to whether a court in one country would impose civil liability on us or on the members of our supervisory board of directors in an original action brought against us or our supervisory directors in a court of competent jurisdiction in another country and predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of that other country.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.