ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business and Structure We are currently in a period of capital markets disruption and severe recession and we do not expect these conditions to improve in the near future. The current market conditions have materially and adversely affected the debt and equity capital markets in the United States, which could have a negative impact on our business and operations. The US capital markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more than 24 months as evidenced by a lack of liquidity in the debt capital markets, significant write-offs in the financial services sector, the repricing of credit risk in the broadly syndicated credit market and the failure of major financial institutions. These events have contributed to worsening general economic conditions that are materially and adversely impacting the broader financial and credit markets and reducing the availability of credit and equity capital for the markets as a whole and financial services firms in particular. We believe that the US economy is experiencing a prolonged recession, and forecasts for 2010 generally call for a continuation of the economic recession. As a result, we believe these conditions may continue for a prolonged period of time or worsen in the future. A prolonged period of market illiquidity will continue to have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. Equity capital may be difficult to raise because, subject to some limited exceptions, we generally are not able to issue and sell our common stock at a price below net asset value per share. In addition, the debt capital that will be available, if at all, may be at a higher cost and on less favorable terms and conditions. We borrow money, which magnifies the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested, and may increase the risk of investing in us. Borrowings, also known as leverage, magnify the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested, and therefore increase the risk associated with investing in us. We borrow from and issue senior debt securities to banks and other lenders, and through long-term subordinated SBA debentures. These creditors have fixed dollar claims on our assets that are superior to the claims of our common shareholders. If the value of our assets increases, then leveraging would cause the net asset value attributable to our common stock to increase more sharply than it would have had we not leveraged. Conversely, if the value of our assets decreases, leveraging would cause net asset value to decline more sharply than it otherwise would have had we not leveraged. Similarly, any increase in our income in excess of interest payable on the borrowed funds would cause our net income to increase more than it would without the leverage, while any decrease in our income would cause net income to decline more sharply than it would have had we not borrowed. Such a decline could reduce the amount available for common stock dividend payments. In addition, based on current market conditions, we believe Citibank may not extend the credit facility beyond its current maturity date in May 2010, and as a result, it was paid off in full in March 2010. We are actively seeking additional sources of liquidity, including sources of liquidity to repay our borrowings under the Citibank facility; however, given current market conditions, we cannot assure you that we will be able to secure additional liquidity on terms favorable to us or at all. If that occurs, we may decline to underwrite lower yielding loans in order to conserve capital until credit conditions in the market become more favorable, or we may be required to dispose of assets when we would not otherwise do so, and at prices which may be below the net book value of such assets in order for us to repay indebtedness on a timely basis. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $382,522,000 of outstanding indebtedness, which had a weighted average borrowing cost of 3.50% at December 31, 2009, and our wholly-owned unconsolidated portfolio companies, primarily Medallion Bank, had $371,719,000 of outstanding indebtedness at a weighted average borrowing cost of 1.85%. Consumer lending by Medallion Bank carries a higher risk of loss and could be adversely affected by an economic downturn. The 2004 acquisition of our consumer loan portfolio, and the subsequent commencement of lending operations in this line of business, represents an entry into the relatively new market of consumer lending for us. Although the purchased portfolio was seasoned, and Medallion Bank’s management has considerable experience in originating and managing consumer loans, we cannot assure you that these loans will perform at their historical levels as expected under Medallion Bank’s management. By its nature, lending to consumers that have blemishes on their credit reports carries with it a higher risk of loss. Although the net interest margins should be higher to compensate us for this increased risk, the current economic downturn could result in higher loss rates and lower returns than expected, and could affect the profitability of the consumer loan portfolio. We are dependent upon our key investment personnel for our future success. We depend on the diligence, skill, and network of business contacts of the investment professionals we employ for sourcing, evaluating, negotiating, structuring, and monitoring our investments. Our future success will also depend, to a significant extent, on the continued service and coordination of our senior management team, particularly, Alvin Murstein, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Andrew M. Murstein, our President, and Larry D. Hall, our Chief Financial Officer. The departure of Messrs. Murstein or Mr. Hall, or any member of our senior management team, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objective. 19 Table of Contents We operate in a highly regulated environment which may constrain our ability to grow our business. The 1940 Act imposes numerous constraints on the operations of business development companies. For example, business development companies are required to invest at least 70% of their total assets in qualifying assets, primarily securities of “eligible portfolio companies” (as defined under the 1940 Act), cash, cash equivalents, US government securities, and other high quality debt investments that mature in one year or less. Our regulatory requirements may hinder our ability to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities and, as a result, achieve our investment objective. In addition, we rely upon several exemptive orders from the SEC permitting us to consolidate our financial reporting and operate our business as presently conducted. Our failure to satisfy the conditions set forth in those exemptive orders could result in our inability to rely upon such orders or to cause the SEC to revoke the orders which could result in material changes in our financial reporting or the way in which we conduct our business. Furthermore, any failure to comply with the requirements imposed on business development companies by the 1940 Act could cause the SEC to bring an enforcement action against us. If we do not remain a business development company, we might be regulated as a closed-end investment company under the 1940 Act, which would further significantly decrease our operating flexibility. On February 27, 2009, Medallion Bank issued and sold, and the US Treasury purchased under the TARP Capital Purchase Program, or the CPP, (1) 11,800 shares of Medallion Bank’s Fixed Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A, and (2) a warrant, which was immediately exercised, to purchase up to 590 shares of Medallion Bank’s Fixed Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $11,800,000 in cash. On December 22, 2009, Medallion Bank issued and sold, and the US Treasury purchased under the CPP, (1) 9,698 shares of Medallion Bank’s Fixed Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series C, and (2) a warrant, which was immediately exercised, to purchase up to 55 shares of Medallion Bank’s Fixed Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series D, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $9,698,000 in cash. The US Congress, through the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, or the EESA, and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, or the ARRA, has imposed a number of restrictions and limitations on the operations of CPP participants. The final rule promulgated pursuant to Section 111 of the EESA, as amended by the ARRA, prescribes certain standards for compensation and corporate governance for CPP participants (which the Company believes to include parent companies such as the Company). The rules and regulations applicable to CPP participants continue to evolve and their scope, timing and effect cannot be predicted. Regulations governing our operation as a business development company will affect our ability to, and the way in which, we raise additional capital. Our business may periodically require capital. We may acquire additional capital from the following sources: Senior Securities and Other Indebtedness. We may issue debt securities or preferred stock, and/or borrow money from banks or other financial institutions, which we refer to collectively as senior securities, up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. If we issue senior securities, including debt or preferred stock, we will be exposed to additional risks, including the following: • Under the provisions of the 1940 Act, we are permitted, as a business development company, to issue senior securities only in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% after each issuance of senior securities. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this test. If that happens, we may be restricted from issuing additional debt, may be limited in making distributions on our stock, and may be required to sell a portion of our investments and, depending on the nature of our leverage, to repay a portion of our debt at a time when such sales and/or repayments may be disadvantageous. • Any amounts that we use to service our debt or make payments on preferred stock will not be available for dividends to our common shareholders. • It is likely that any senior securities or other indebtedness we issue will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. Additionally, some of these securities or other indebtedness may be rated by rating agencies, and in obtaining a rating for such securities and other indebtedness, we may be required to abide by operating and investment guidelines that further restrict operating and financial flexibility. • We and, indirectly, our shareholders will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities and other indebtedness. • Preferred stock or any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences, and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock, including separate voting rights, and could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control to the detriment of the holders of our common stock. Additional Common Stock. We are not generally able to issue and sell our common stock at a price below net asset value per share. We may, however, sell our common stock, warrants, options, or rights to acquire our common stock, at a price below the current net asset value of the common stock if our Board of Directors determines that such sale is in our best interests and that of our shareholders, and our shareholders approve such sale. In any such case, the price at which our securities are to be issued and sold may 20 Table of Contents not be less than a price which, in the determination of our Board of Directors, closely approximates the market value of such securities (less any distributing commission or discount). We may also make rights offerings to our shareholders at prices per share less than the net asset value per share, subject to applicable requirements of the 1940 Act. If we raise additional funds by issuing more common stock or senior securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, our common stock, the percentage ownership of our shareholders at that time would decrease and they may experience dilution. Moreover, we can offer no assurance that we will be able to issue and sell additional equity securities in the future, on favorable terms or at all. If our primary investments are deemed not to be qualifying assets, we could be deemed to be in violation of the 1940 Act. As a business development company, we are not permitted to acquire any assets other than “qualifying assets” unless, at the time of such acquisition, at least 70% of our total assets are qualifying assets. Our investment in Medallion Bank may constitute an ineligible investment. As of December 31, 2009, up to 25% of our total assets were invested in ineligible investments. At the end of each fiscal quarter, we may take proactive steps to prospectively preserve investment flexibility in the next quarter which is assessed against our total assets at our most recent quarter end. We can accomplish this in many ways including purchasing US Treasury bills or other investment-grade debt securities, and closing out our position on a net cash basis subsequent to quarter end. However, if such proactive measures are ineffective and our primary investments are deemed not to be qualifying assets, we could be deemed in violation of the 1940 Act, which could have a material effect on our business. We will be subject to corporate-level income tax if we are unable to qualify as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code. To obtain and maintain RIC tax treatment under the Code, we must meet the following annual distribution, income source, and asset diversification requirements. • The annual distribution requirement for a RIC will be satisfied if we distribute to our shareholders on an annual basis at least 90% of our net ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any. Because we use debt financing, we are subject to certain asset coverage ratio requirements under the 1940 Act and financial covenants under loan and credit agreements that could, under certain circumstances, restrict us from making distributions necessary to satisfy the distribution requirement. If we are unable to obtain cash from other sources, we could fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment and thus become subject to corporate-level income tax. • The income source requirement will be satisfied if we obtain at least 90% of our income for each year from dividends, interest, gains from the sale of stock or securities or similar sources. • The asset diversification requirement will be satisfied if we meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each quarter of our taxable year. Failure to meet those requirements may result in our having to dispose of certain investments quickly in order to prevent the loss of RIC status. Because most of our investments will be in private companies, and therefore will be relatively illiquid, any such dispositions could be made at disadvantageous prices and could result in substantial losses. If we do not qualify as a RIC for more than two consecutive years, and then seek to requalify and elect RIC status, we would be required to recognize gain to the extent of any unrealized appreciation on our assets unless we make a special election to pay corporate-level tax on any such unrealized appreciation recognized during the succeeding 10-year period. Absent such special election, any gain we recognize would be deemed distributed to our shareholders as a taxable distribution. If we fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment for any reason and are subject to corporate income tax, the resulting corporate taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution and the amount of our distributions. In addition, the asset coverage and distribution requirements impose significant cash flow management restrictions on us and limit our ability to retain earnings to cover periods of loss, provide for future growth, and pay for extraordinary items. Additionally, we could fail to satisfy the requirement that a RIC derive at least 90% of its gross income from qualifying sources, with the result that we would not qualify as a RIC. Qualification as a RIC is made on an annual basis and, although we and some of our subsidiaries have qualified in the past, we cannot assure you that we will qualify for such treatment in the future. The Code’s diversification requirements may limit our ability to expand our business. To qualify as a RIC, not more than 25% of the value of our total assets may be invested in the securities, other than US government securities or securities of other RICs, of any one issuer. As of December 31, 2009, our largest investment subject to this test was our investment in Medallion Bank, representing 24% of our RIC assets. No other investments were more than 5% of our RIC assets. We will continue to monitor the levels of this and any other investment concentrations in conjunction with the diversification tests. 21 Table of Contents We may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income. For federal income tax purposes, we will include in taxable income certain amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as original issue discount, which may arise if we receive warrants in connection with the origination of a loan or possibly in other circumstances, or contractual payment-in-kind interest, which represents contractual interest added to the loan balance and due at the end of the loan term. Such original issue discount or increases in loan balances as a result of payment-in-kind interest will be included in income before we receive any corresponding cash payments. We also may be required to include in income certain other amounts that we will not receive in cash. Since, in certain cases, we may recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income, we may have difficulty meeting the annual distribution requirement necessary to achieve and maintain RIC tax treatment under the Code. Accordingly, we may have to sell some of our investments at times and/or at prices we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital, or reduce new investment originations for this purpose. If we are not able to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment and thus become subject to corporate-level income tax. Our SBIC subsidiaries may be unable to meet the investment company requirements, which could result in the imposition of an entity-level tax. Some of our subsidiaries are subject to the SBIA. Our SBIC subsidiaries that are also RICs are prohibited by the SBIA from making the distributions necessary to qualify as a RIC. Each year, in order to comply with the SBA regulations and the RIC distribution requirements, we must request and receive a waiver of the SBA’s restrictions. While the current policy of the SBA’s Office of SBIC Operations is to grant such waivers if the SBIC makes certain offsetting adjustments to its paid-in capital and surplus accounts, we cannot assure you that this will continue to be the SBA’s policy or that our subsidiaries will have adequate capital to make the required adjustments. If our subsidiaries are unable to obtain a waiver, compliance with the SBA regulations may result in loss of RIC status and a consequent imposition of an entity-level tax. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. We compete for investments with other business development companies and other investment funds as well as traditional financial services companies such as commercial banks and credit unions. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical, and marketing resources than we do. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments. These characteristics could allow our competitors to consider a wider variety of investments, establish more relationships, and offer better pricing and more flexible structuring than us. We may lose investment opportunities if we do not match our competitors’ pricing, terms, and structure. If we are forced to match our competitors’ pricing, terms, and structure, we may not be able to achieve acceptable returns on our investments or may bear substantial risk of capital loss. Furthermore, many of our competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a business development company. We cannot assure you that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time. Changes in interest rates may affect our cost of capital and net investment income. Because we borrow to fund our investments, a portion of our income is dependent upon the difference between the interest rate at which we borrow funds and the interest rate at which we invest these funds. A portion of our investments, such as taxi medallion loans, will have fixed interest rates, while a portion of our borrowings will likely have floating interest rates. As a result, a significant change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our net investment income. In periods of rising interest rates, our cost of funds could increase, which would reduce our net investment income. We may hedge against interest rate fluctuations by using standard hedging instruments, subject to applicable legal requirements. These activities may limit our ability to participate in the benefits of lower interest rates with respect to the hedged portfolio. Adverse developments resulting from changes in interest rates or hedging transactions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Also, we will have to rely on our counterparties to perform their obligations under such hedges. We depend on cash flow from our subsidiaries to make dividend payments and other distributions to our shareholders. We are primarily a holding company, and we derive most of our operating income and cash flow from our subsidiaries. As a result, we rely heavily upon distributions from our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to make dividend payments and other 22 Table of Contents distributions to our shareholders. Funds are provided to us by our subsidiaries through dividends and payments on intercompany indebtedness, but we cannot assure you that our subsidiaries will be in a position to continue to make these dividend or debt payments. Furthermore, as a condition of its approval by its regulators, Medallion Bank is required to maintain a 15% capital ratio, which may inhibit its ability to declare and pay dividends, which are further restricted by the US Treasury to $4,000,000 per year. Medallion Bank’s use of brokered deposit sources for its deposit-gathering activities may not be available when needed. Medallion Bank relies on the established brokered deposit market to originate deposits to fund its operations. While Medallion Bank has developed contractual relationships with a diversified group of investment brokers, and the brokered deposit market is well developed and utilized by many banking institutions, conditions could change that might affect the availability of deposits. If the capital levels at Medallion Bank fall below the “well-capitalized” level, or if Medallion Bank experiences a period of sustained operating losses, the cost of attracting deposits from the brokered deposit market could increase significantly, and the ability of Medallion Bank to raise deposits from this source could be impaired. Medallion Bank’s ability to manage its growth to stay within the “well-capitalized” level, and the capital level currently required by the FDIC, which is also considerably higher than the level required to be classified as “well-capitalized”, is critical to Medallion Bank’s retaining open access to this funding source. A decrease in prevailing interest rates may lead to more loan prepayments, which could adversely affect our business. Our borrowers generally have the right to prepay their loans upon payment of a fee ranging from 30 to 120 days interest for standard commodity loans, and for higher amounts, as negotiated, for larger more custom loan arrangements. A borrower is likely to exercise prepayment rights at a time when the interest rate payable on the borrower’s loan is high relative to prevailing interest rates. In a lower interest rate environment, we will have difficulty re-lending prepaid funds at comparable rates, which may reduce the net interest income that we receive. When this occurs, we will generally reinvest these proceeds in temporary investments, pending their future investment in new portfolio companies. These temporary investments will typically have substantially lower yields than the debt being prepaid, and we could experience significant delays in reinvesting these amounts. Any future investment in a new portfolio company may also be at lower yields than the debt that was repaid. As a result, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if a substantial number of our portfolio companies elect to prepay amounts owed to us and we are not able to reinvest the proceeds for comparable yields in a timely fashion. Additionally, prepayments could negatively impact our return on equity, which could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. Our investment portfolio is, and will continue to be, recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by our management and approved by our Board of Directors and, as a result, there is, and will continue to be, uncertainty as to the value of our portfolio investments. Under the 1940 Act, we are required to carry our portfolio investments at market value or, if there is no readily available market value, at fair value as determined by our management and approved by our Board of Directors. Unlike other lending institutions, we are not permitted to maintain a general reserve for anticipated losses. Instead, we are required by the 1940 Act to specifically value each individual investment and record an unrealized gain or loss for any asset we believe has increased or decreased in value. Typically, there is not a public market for most of the investments in which we have invested and will generally continue to invest. As a result, we value our investments on a quarterly basis based on a determination of their fair value made in good faith and in accordance with the written guidelines approved by our Board of Directors. The types of factors that may be considered in determining the fair value pricing of our investments include the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company’s earnings and its ability to make payments on its indebtedness, the markets in which the portfolio company does business, comparison to publicly traded companies, discounted cash flow, and other relevant factors. Because such valuations, and particularly valuations of private securities and private companies, are inherently uncertain, the valuations may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates. As a result, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these investments existed. Our net asset value could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of our investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon the disposal of such securities. Considering these factors, we have determined that the fair value of our portfolio is below its cost basis. As of December 31, 2009, our net unrealized depreciation on investments other than in controlled subsidiaries, foreclosed properties, and other assets was $4,612,000 or 0.96% of our investment portfolio. The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business. We generally make investments in private companies. Substantially all of these securities are subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or are otherwise less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we had previously recorded our investments. We may also face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a portfolio company to the extent that we have material non-public information regarding such portfolio company. 23 Table of Contents In addition, the illiquidity of our loan portfolio and investments may adversely affect our ability to dispose of loans at times when it may be advantageous for us to liquidate such portfolio or investments. In addition, if we were required to liquidate some or all of the investments in the portfolio, the proceeds of such liquidation may be significantly less than the current value of such investments. Because we borrow money to make loans and investments, our net operating income is dependent upon the difference between the rate at which we borrow funds and the rate at which we invest these funds. As a result, there can be no assurance that a significant change in market interest rates will not have a material adverse effect on our interest income. In periods of sharply rising interest rates, our cost of funds would increase, which would reduce our net operating income before net realized and unrealized gains. We use a combination of long-term and short-term borrowings and equity capital to finance our investing activities. Our long-term fixed-rate investments are financed primarily with short-term floating-rate debt, and to a lesser extent by term fixed-rate debt. We may use interest rate risk management techniques in an effort to limit our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. Such techniques may include various interest rate hedging activities to the extent permitted by the 1940 Act. We have analyzed the potential impact of changes in interest rates on net interest income. Assuming that the balance sheet were to remain constant and no actions were taken to alter the existing interest rate sensitivity, and including the impact on Medallion Bank, a hypothetical immediate 1% increase in interest rates would have positively impacted net increase in net assets resulting from operations as of December 31, 2009 by approximately $1,149,000 on an annualized basis, compared to a negative impact of $1,702,000 at December 31, 2008, and the impact of such an immediate increase of 1% over a one year period would have been ($1,943,000) at December 31, 2009, compared to ($2,831,000) for December 31, 2008. Although management believes that this measure is indicative of our sensitivity to interest rate changes, it does not adjust for potential changes in credit quality, size, and composition of the assets on the balance sheet, and other business developments that could affect net increase in net assets resulting from operations in a particular quarter or for the year taken as a whole. Accordingly, no assurances can be given that actual results would not differ materially from the potential outcome simulated by these estimates. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly results. We could experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors, including our ability to make investments in companies that meet our investment criteria, the interest rate payable on the debt securities we acquire, the level of our expenses, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets, and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may affect any market for our common stock, impact the businesses in which we invest, and harm our operations and profitability. Terrorist attacks may harm our results of operations and your investment. We cannot assure you that there will not be further terrorist attacks against the US or US businesses. Such attacks or armed conflicts in the US or elsewhere may impact the businesses in which we invest directly, or indirectly by undermining economic conditions in the United States. In addition, a substantial portion of our business is focused in the New York City metropolitan area, which suffered a terrorist attack in 2001. Another terrorist attack in New York City could severely impact our results of operations. Losses resulting from terrorist attacks are generally uninsurable. Our financial condition and results of operations will depend on our ability to manage growth effectively. Our ability to achieve our investment objective will depend on our ability to grow, which will depend, in turn, on our management team’s ability to identify, evaluate, and monitor, and our ability to finance and invest in, companies that meet our investment criteria. Accomplishing this result on a cost-effective basis will be largely a function of our management team’s handling of the investment process, its ability to provide competent, attentive, and efficient services, and our access to financing on acceptable terms. In addition to monitoring the performance of our existing investments, members of our management team and our investment professionals may also be called upon to provide managerial assistance to our portfolio companies. These demands on their time may distract them or slow the rate of investment. In order to grow, we will need to hire, train, supervise, and manage new employees. However, we cannot assure you that any such employees will contribute to the success of our business. Any failure to manage our future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents Acquisitions may lead to difficulties that could adversely affect our operations. By their nature, corporate acquisitions entail certain risks, including those relating to undisclosed liabilities, the entry into new markets, operational, and personnel matters. We may have difficulty integrating acquired operations or managing problems due to sudden increases in the size of our loan portfolio. In such instances, we might be required to modify our operating systems and procedures, hire additional staff, obtain and integrate new equipment, and complete other tasks appropriate for the assimilation of new business activities. We cannot assure you that we would be successful, if and when necessary, in minimizing these inherent risks or in establishing systems and procedures which will enable us to effectively achieve our desired results in respect of any future acquisitions. Our ability to enter into transactions with our affiliates is restricted. The 1940 Act restricts our ability to knowingly participate in certain transactions with our affiliates. These restrictions limit our ability to buy or sell any security from or to our affiliates, or engage in “joint” transactions with our affiliates, which could include investments in the same portfolio company (whether at the same or different times). With respect to controlling or certain closely affiliated persons, we will generally be prohibited from engaging in such transactions absent the prior approval of the SEC. With respect to other affiliated persons, we may engage in such transactions only with the prior approval of our independent directors. Our Board of Directors may change our operating policies and strategies without prior notice or shareholder approval, the effects of which may be adverse. Our Board of Directors has the authority to modify or waive our current operating policies and strategies without prior notice and without shareholder approval. We cannot predict the effect any changes to our current operating policies and strategies would have on our business, operating results, and value of our stock. However, the effects might be adverse, which could negatively impact our ability to pay you dividends and cause you to lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Investments Lending to small businesses involves a high degree of risk and is highly speculative. Lending to small businesses involves a high degree of business and financial risk, which can result in substantial losses and should be considered speculative. Our borrower base consists primarily of small business owners that may have limited resources and that are generally unable to obtain financing from traditional sources. There is generally no publicly available information about these small business owners, and we must rely on the diligence of our employees and agents to obtain information in connection with our credit decisions. In addition, these small businesses often do not have audited financial statements. Some smaller businesses have narrower product lines and market shares than their competition. Therefore, they may be more vulnerable to customer preferences, market conditions, or economic downturns, which may adversely affect the return on, or the recovery of, our investment in these businesses. Our portfolio is and may continue to be concentrated in a limited number of portfolio companies and industries, which will subject us to a risk of significant loss if any of these companies defaults on its obligations to us or by a downturn in the particular industry. Our portfolio is and may continue to be concentrated in a limited number of portfolio companies and industries. As of December 31, 2009, investments in New York City taxi medallion loans represented approximately 75% of our managed taxi medallion loans. Beyond the asset diversification requirements associated with our qualification as a RIC, we do not have fixed guidelines for diversification, and while we are not targeting any specific industries, our investments are, and could continue to be, concentrated in relatively few industries. As a result, the aggregate returns we realize may be adversely affected if a small number of investments perform poorly or if we need to write down the value of any one investment. Additionally, a downturn in any particular industry in which we are invested could also negatively impact the aggregate returns we realize. If we are unable to continue to diversify geographically, our business may be adversely affected if the New York City taxicab industry experiences a sustained economic downturn. A significant portion of our loan revenue is derived from New York City medallion loans collateralized by New York City taxicab medallions. An economic downturn in the New York City taxicab industry could lead to an increase in defaults on our medallion loans. We cannot assure you that we will be able to sufficiently diversify our operations geographically. 25 Table of Contents An economic downturn such as what we are currently experiencing could result in certain of our commercial and consumer loan customers experiencing declines in business activities and/or personal resources, which could lead to difficulties in their servicing of their loans with us, and increasing the level of delinquencies, defaults, and loan losses in our commercial and consumer loan portfolios. Changes in taxicab industry regulations that result in the issuance of additional medallions or increases the expenses involved in operating a medallion could lead to a decrease in the value of our medallion loan collateral. Every city in which we originate medallion loans, and most other major cities in the US, limits the supply of taxicab medallions. This regulation results in supply restrictions that support the value of medallions. Actions that loosen these restrictions and result in the issuance of additional medallions into a market could decrease the value of medallions in that market. If this were to occur, the value of the collateral securing our then outstanding medallion loans in that market could be adversely affected. We are unable to forecast with any degree of certainty whether any other potential increases in the supply of medallions will occur. In New York City, Chicago, Boston, and in other markets where we originate medallion loans, taxicab fares are generally set by government agencies. Expenses associated with operating taxicabs are largely unregulated. As a result, the ability of taxicab operators to recoup increases in expenses is limited in the short term. Escalating expenses can render taxicab operations less profitable, could cause borrowers to default on loans from us, and could potentially adversely affect the value of our collateral. A significant portion of our loan revenue is derived from loans collateralized by New York City taxicab medallions. According to New York City TLC data, over the past 20 years New York City taxicab medallions have appreciated in value from under $100,000 to $775,000 for corporate medallions and $584,000 for individual medallions. However, for sustained periods during that time, taxicab medallions have declined in value. Since December 31, 2007, the value of New York City taxicab medallions increased by approximately 37% for individual medallions and 29% for corporate medallions. Our portfolio companies may incur debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, our investments in such companies. We invest primarily in senior secured loans, junior secured loans, and subordinated debt issued by small- to mid-sized companies. Our portfolio companies may have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, the debt in which we invest. By their terms, such debt instruments may entitle the holders to receive payment of interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments with respect to the debt instruments in which we invest. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization, or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution. After repaying such senior creditors, such portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to us. In the case of debt ranking equally with debt instruments in which we invest, we would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization, or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company. There may be circumstances where our debt investments could be subordinated to claims of other creditors or we could be subject to lender liability claims. Even though we may have structured most of our investments as senior loans, if one of our portfolio companies were to go bankrupt, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which we actually provided managerial assistance to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might recharacterize our debt investment and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to that of other creditors. We may also be subject to lender liability claims for actions taken by us with respect to a borrower’s business or instances where we exercise control over the borrower. It is possible that we could become subject to a lender’s liability claim, including as a result of actions taken in rendering significant managerial assistance. We may not control many of our portfolio companies. We may not control many of our portfolio companies, even though we may have board representation or board observation rights, and our debt agreements may contain certain restrictive covenants. As a result, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company in which we invest may make business decisions with which we disagree, and the management of such company may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve our interests as debt investors. We may not realize gains from our equity investments. Certain investments that we have made in the past and may make in the future include warrants or other equity securities. In addition, we may from time to time make non-control, equity co-investments in companies in conjunction with private equity sponsors. Our goal is ultimately to realize gains upon our disposition of such equity interests. However, the equity interests we 26 Table of Contents receive may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. We also may be unable to realize any value if a portfolio company does not have a liquidity event, such as a sale of the business, recapitalization or public offering, which would allow us to sell the underlying equity interests. Our investments in special purpose acquisition companies, or SPACs, is forfeited. The initial public offering of units in our first SPAC, Sports Properties Acquisition Corp., (Sports Properties) was consummated in January, 2008. Sports Properties had 24 months from the date of its prospectus to complete a business combination, which did not occur. As a result, we have fully written off our investment of $6,961,000. We also agreed to indemnify Sports Properties upon Sports Properties liquidation for all claims of any vendors, service providers, or other entities that are owed money by Sports Properties for services rendered, or contracted for, or products sold to Sports Properties, or the claims of any target businesses to the extent that Sports Properties fails to obtain valid and enforceable waivers from such vendors, service providers, prospective target businesses, or other entities in order to protect the amounts held in Sports Properties’ trust account. As a result, we lost the amount of capital we invested in Sports Properties, and we may also be liable to Sports Properties under those indemnification obligations. At December 31, 2009, the SPAC’s liabilities exceeded its cash on hand by $1,581,000. The SPAC intends to negotiate these liabilities downwards, seeking forbearance from those associated with a failed deal. However, since the results of such negotiations cannot be anticipated, the Company has accrued $1,582,000 to cover the SPAC’s shortfall. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 