Item1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent in our business. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included in this report. In addition to the risks and uncertainties described below, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these identified or other risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability and affect the value of our assets. Like other financial institutions, we are subject to interest rate risk. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience imbalances in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities and the relationships of various interest rates to each other. Over any defined period of time, our interest-earning assets may be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa. In addition, the individual market interest rates underlying our loan and deposit products may not change to the same degree over a given time period. In any event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, our earnings may be negatively affected. In addition, loan volume and quality and deposit volume and mix can be affected by market interest rates. Changes in levels of market interest rates could materially adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, origination volume and overall profitability. Interest rates have recently been at historically low levels. However, since June 30, 2004, the U.S. Federal Reserve has increased its target for the federal funds rate thirteen times, from 1.00% to 4.25%. While these short-term market interest rates (which we use as a guide to price our deposits) have increased, longer-term market interest rates (which we use as a guide to price our longer-term loans) have not. This “flattening” of the market yield curve has had a negative impact on our interest rate spread and net interest margin to date. If short-term interest rates continue to rise, and if rates on our deposits and borrowings continue to reprice upwards faster than the rates on our long-term loans and investments, we would experience further compression of our interest rate spread and net interest margin, which would have a negative effect on our profitability. We principally manage interest rate risk by managing our volume and mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively. If we are unable to manage interest rate risk effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. - 12 - Table of Contents Changes in the level of interest rates also may negatively affect our ability to originate real estate loans, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which ultimately affect our earnings. An increase in loan prepayments may adversely affect our profitability. Prepayment rates are affected by consumer behavior, conditions in the real estate and other financial markets, general economic conditions and the relative interest rates on our fixed-rate and adjustable-rate mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities. Changes in prepayment rates are therefore difficult for us to predict. We recognize our deferred loan origination costs and premiums paid in originating these loans by adjusting our interest income over the contractual life of the individual loans. As prepayments occur, the rate at which net deferred loan origination costs and premiums are expensed accelerates. The effect of the acceleration of deferred costs and premium amortization may be mitigated by prepayment penalties paid by the borrower when the loan is paid in full within a certain period of time which varies between loans. If prepayment occurs after the period of time when the loan is subject to a prepayment penalty, the effect of the acceleration of premium and deferred cost amortization is no longer mitigated. We may not be able to reinvest prepayments on loans or mortgage-backed securities at rates comparable to the prepaid instrument particularly in period of declining interest rates. An inadequate allowance for loan losses would reduce our earnings. We are exposed to the risk that our borrowers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans will not be sufficient to assure full repayment. Credit losses are inherent in the lending business and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Volatility and deterioration in the economy may also increase our risk for credit losses. We evaluate the collectibility of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for loan losses that we believe is adequate based upon such factors as: • the risk characteristics of various classifications of loans; • general portfolio trends relative to asset and portfolio size; • potential credit and geographic concentrations; • delinquency trends and nonaccrual levels; • historical loss and recovery experience and risks associated with changes in economic, social and business conditions; • the amount and quality of the collateral; • the views of our regulators; and • the underwriting standards in effect when the loan is made. If our evaluation is incorrect and borrower defaults cause losses exceeding our allowance for loan losses, our earnings could be materially and adversely affected. We cannot assure you that our allowance will be adequate to cover loan losses inherent in our portfolio. We may experience losses in our loan portfolio or perceive adverse trends that require us to significantly increase our allowance for loan losses in the future, which would also reduce our earnings. In addition, the Bank’s regulators, as an integral part of their examination process, may require us to make additional provisions for loan losses. - 13 - Table of Contents Our income producing property loans involve higher principal amounts and expose us to a greater risk of loss than one-to-four family residential loans. At December 31, 2005, we had $2.0 billion of loans secured by income producing properties, both commercial and multi-family residential, representing 83.1% of our total real estate loans and 80.2% of our gross loan portfolio. The income generated from the operation of the property securing the loan is generally considered by us to be the principal source of repayment on this type of loan. The income producing property lending in which we engage typically involves larger loans to a single borrower and is generally viewed as exposing the lender to a greater risk of loss than one-four family residential lending because these loans generally are not fully amortizing over the loan period, but have a balloon payment due at maturity. A borrower’s ability to make a balloon payment typically will depend on being able to either refinance the loan or timely sell the underlying property. Income producing property values are also generally subject to greater volatility than residential property values. The liquidation values of income producing properties may be adversely affected by risks generally incident to interests in real property, such as: • changes or continued weakness in general or local economic conditions; • changes or continued weakness in specific industry segments; • declines in real estate values; • declines in rental, room or occupancy rates in hotels, apartment complexes or commercial properties • increases in other operating expenses (including energy costs); • the availability of refinancing at lower interest rates or better loan terms; • changes in governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies, including rent control ordinances, environmental legislation and taxation; • increases in interest rates, real estate and personal property tax rates, and • other factors beyond the control of the borrower or the lender. We generally originate and acquire income producing property loans primarily to be held in our portfolio to maturity. Because the resale market for this type of loan is less liquid than the well-established secondary market for residential loans, should we decide to sell our income producing property loans, we may incur losses on any sale. The unseasoned nature of many of the loans we originated as part of our small balance multi-family real estate loan platform, along with our limited experience in originating these loans nationwide, may lead to additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs, which would hurt our profits. The national expansion of our small balance multi-family real estate loan platform has led to an increase in the number of these types of loans in our portfolio. Many of these loans are unseasoned and have not been subjected to unfavorable economic conditions. We have limited experience in originating these types of loans outside the State of California and as a result do not have a significant payment history pattern with which to judge future collectibility. As a result, it is difficult to predict the future performance of this part of our real estate loan portfolio. These loans may have delinquency or charge-off levels above our historical experience, which could adversely affect our profitability. Our construction loans are based upon estimates of costs and value associated with the complete project. These estimates may be inaccurate. We originate construction loans for income producing properties, as well as for single family home construction. At December 31, 2005, construction loans totaled $302.9 million, or 11.9% of gross loans receivable. Construction lending involves additional risks because funds are advanced upon the security of the project, which is of uncertain value prior to its completion. There are also risks associated with the timely completion of the construction activities for their allotted costs, as a number of factors can result in delays and cost overruns, and the time needed to stabilize income producing properties or to sell residential tract developments. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs, as well as the market value of the completed project and the effects of governmental regulation of real property, it is relatively difficult to evaluate accurately the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio. As a result, construction loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property or refinance the indebtedness, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. If our appraisal of the value of the completed project proves to be overstated, we may have inadequate security for the repayment of the loan upon completion of construction of the project and may incur a loss. - 14 - Table of Contents Our real estate lending also exposes us to the risk of environmental liabilities. In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third persons for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Repayment of our entertainment finance loans is primarily dependent on revenues from distribution contracts. Through ICBEF, a division of the Bank, we originate entertainment finance loans to independent producers of film and television on a senior secured basis. Although these loans are typically collateralized by a mortgage of copyright, security agreements and assigned sales contracts, the primary source of repayment is the revenue received by the borrower from the licensing of distribution rights. For this reason, our credit decisions are based in part on the creditworthiness and reputation of distributors and sales agents who have contracted to distribute the films. In many instances, the distribution contracts provide for multiple payments payable at certain milestones (such as execution of contract, commencement of principal photography or completion of principal photography). The maturity date of the loan is generally six to nine months after completion of the production. To the extent a distributor fails to make payment upon completion of the film, or the predicted level of revenue is less than expected, we may incur a loss if rights cannot be resold for the same amount or other loan collateral cannot cover required loan payments. Negative events in certain geographic areas, particularly California, could adversely affect us. Although we have significantly increased the geographic diversification of our loan portfolio in the last two years, our real estate loans remain heavily concentrated in the State of California, with approximately 59.2% of our real estate loans as of December 31, 2005 secured by collateral and made to borrowers in that state. In addition, as of that date, approximately 9.0% and 5.6% of our real estate loans were secured by collateral and made to borrowers in the States of Arizona and Texas, respectively. A worsening of economic conditions in California or in any other state in which we have a significant concentration of borrowers could have a material adverse effect on our business, by reducing demand for new financings, limiting the ability of customers to repay existing loans, and impairing the value of our real estate collateral and real estate owned properties. Real estate values are affected by various other factors, including changes in general or regional economic conditions, governmental rules or policies and natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornados and hurricanes. Our wholesale funding sources may prove insufficient to replace deposits and support our future growth. We must maintain sufficient funds to respond to the needs of depositors and borrowers. As a part of our liquidity management, we use a number of funding sources in addition to core deposit growth and repayments and maturities of loans and investments. As we continue to grow, we are likely to become more dependent on these sources, which include brokered certificates of deposit, repurchase agreements, federal funds purchased and Federal Home Loan Bank advances. Adverse operating results or changes in industry conditions could lead to an inability to replace these additional funding sources at maturity. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our profitability would be adversely affected. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect our profitability. The banking and financial services industry is very competitive. Legal and regulatory developments have made it easier for new and sometimes unregulated competitors to compete with us. Consolidation among financial service providers has resulted in fewer very large national and regional banking and financial institutions holding a large accumulation of assets. These institutions generally have significantly greater resources, a wider geographic presence or greater accessibility. Our competitors sometimes are also able to offer more services, more favorable pricing or greater customer convenience than we do. In addition, our competition has grown from new banks and other financial services providers that target our existing or potential customers. As consolidation continues among large banks, we expect additional institutions to try to exploit our market. - 15 - Table of Contents Technological developments have allowed competitors including some non-depository institutions, to compete more effectively in local markets and have expanded the range of financial products, services and capital available to our target customers. If we are unable to implement, maintain and use such technologies effectively, we may not be able to offer products or achieve cost-efficiencies necessary to compete in our industry. In addition, some of these competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and lower cost structures. We rely heavily on the proper functioning of our technology. We rely on our computer systems, and outside servicers providing technology, for much of our business, including recording our assets and liabilities. If our computer systems or outside technology sources fail, are not reliable or there is a breach of security, our ability to maintain accurate financial records may be impaired, which could materially affect our operations and financial condition. We are dependent upon the services of our management team. We are dependent upon the ability and experience of a number of our key management personnel who have substantial experience with our operations, the financial services industry and the markets in which we offer our services. It is possible that the loss of the services of one or more of our senior executives or key managers would have an adverse effect on our operations. Our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, manage and retain other qualified personnel as we grow. We cannot assure you that we will continue to attract or retain such personnel. Terrorist activities could cause reductions in investor confidence and substantial volatility in real estate and securities markets. It is impossible to predict the extent to which terrorist activities may occur in the United States or other regions, or their effect on a particular security issue. It is also uncertain what effects any past or future terrorist activities and/or any consequent actions on the part of the United States government and others will have on the United States and world financial markets, local, regional and national economics, and real estate markets across the United States. Among other things, reduced investor confidence could result in substantial volatility in securities markets, a decline in general economic conditions and real estate related investments and an increase in loan defaults. Such unexpected losses and events could materially affect our results of operations. We are subject to extensive regulation that could restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business. Bank holding companies and California-charted commercial banks operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to supervision and examination by federal and state regulatory agencies. We are subject to the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and to regulation and supervision by the FRB. Imperial Capital Bank is subject to regulation and supervision by the FDIC, and DFI. The cost of compliance with regulatory requirements may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Federal and state laws and regulations govern numerous matters including: changes in the ownership or control of banks and bank holding companies; maintenance of adequate capital and the financial condition of a financial institution; permissible types, amounts and terms of extensions of credit and investments; permissible non-banking activities; the level of reserves against deposits; and restrictions on dividend payments. The FDIC and DFI possess cease and desist powers to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law by banks subject to their regulation, and the FRB possesses similar powers with respect to bank holding companies. These and other restrictions limit the manner in which we may conduct our business and obtain financing. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. - 16 - Table of Contents Item 