RISK FACTORS Economic, Political, Social, and Regulatory Risk Uncertainty in the global economy, financial markets, and in political conditions could have material negative impact on our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. Our customers’ willingness to invest in acquiring and implementing our products generally varies with economic and political conditions as well as any periods of disruption or volatility in global financial markets. A global economic crisis, a U.S. or euro area recession, or the current euro area debt crisis could have a negative impact on SAP. In the regions in which we do business and the industries in which our customers operate, economic uncertainty or 14 Table of Contents Part I Item 3 volatility in financial markets could have negative effects, including: • General reluctance to invest in IT • Decreased customer demand for our software and services, including delayed, canceled, and smaller orders • Customers’ inability to obtain credit on acceptable terms, or at all, to finance purchases of our software and services • Increased incidence of default and insolvency of customers, business partners, and key suppliers • Increased default risk, which may lead to significant write-downs in the future • Greater pressure on the prices of our products and services • Pressure on our operating margin Economic, financial market, or political instability could have a material negative impact on our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows, and could also exacerbate the other risks we describe in this report. Our international business activities subject us to numerous and potentially conflicting regulatory requirements, and the associated risks could harm our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. We currently market our products and services in more than 120 countries in the Americas, APJ, and EMEA regions. Sales in these countries are subject to numerous risks inherent in international business operations. Among others, these risks include: • Conflict and overlap among different tax regimes • Possible tax constraints impeding business operations in certain countries • Expenses associated with the customization of our products on a local level and transacting business in compliance with local regulatory requirements • Operational difficulties in countries with a high corruption perception index • Protectionist trade policies • Demands of works councils and labor unions, and immigration law requirements, in different countries • Data privacy and access by foreign authorities to customer, partner, or employee data As we expand further into new regions and markets, these risks could intensify. One or more of these factors could negatively impact our operations globally or in one or more countries or regions. This could result in significant negative impact to our reputation and our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. Social and political instability caused, for example, by terrorist attacks, civil unrest, war or international hostilities, pandemic disease outbreaks, or natural disasters could have a significant negative impact on our business. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war, civil and political unrest (such as that in the Middle East and North Africa), pandemic disease outbreaks, or natural disasters (such as the earthquakes in Japan) could have a significant negative impact on the related economy or beyond. An event that results, for example, in the loss of significant numbers of employees or in the disruption of operations at our headquarters or other key locations could affect our ability to provide normal business services and to generate the expected income. That could lead to a significant negative impact on our customers and their investment decisions. This could in turn lead to a significant negative impact on our reputation and on our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. 15 Table of Contents Part I Item 3 Market Risks If our established customers do not buy additional software products, renew maintenance agreements, or purchase additional professional services, this could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. In 2011, we continued to offer a wide range of support services. We continue to depend materially on the success of our support portfolio and on our ability to deliver high-quality services. Traditionally, our large installed customer base generates additional new software, maintenance, consulting, and training revenue. If existing customers cancel or do not renew their maintenance contracts, accept alternative offerings from other vendors, or decide not to buy additional products and services, this would have a material negative impact on our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. Our market share and profit may decline due to intense competition, consolidation, and technological innovation in the software industry. The software industry continues to evolve rapidly, due to competition, consolidation, and technological innovation. As a result, the market for our products and services is intensely competitive. Over the last decade, we have diversified from our large enterprise resource planning (ERP) offerings to new products and services, like on-device, cloud, and in-memory computing, which exposes us to competitors varying in size, geographic location, and specialty. New development models and new delivery and licensing models, such as software as a service (SaaS), platform as a service (PaaS), business process outsourcing (BPO), and cloud computing, enable competitors to offer integrated packaged solutions that compete with ours. SaaS providers and other participants in the growing SaaS ecosystem for applications also compete with SAP for segment share. Cloud computing is driving fast adoption of Web-based business models. As a result, it is easier for new entrants to orchestrate or own end-to-end value chains and to impact our key growth markets. Aggressive tactics by mobile device platform providers and database providers could impact the market potential for our mobile apps and in-memory computing and could cut us off from potential revenue sources. In addition, competitors may gain market share because of acquisitions. Current and potential competitors are establishing or may in the future establish or extend cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to better address their customers’ needs. This increased competition could result in increased price pressure, cost increases, and loss of market share and therefore have a significant negative impact on our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. Business Strategy Risks Demand for our new products may not develop as planned and our strategy for new markets, new business models, and new consumption models may not be successful. Our strategy centers on innovating on our stable core products and services, and developing on-premise, cloud, and mobile solutions. We focus on continuous innovation through new business and consumption models, by enhancing our technology, by expanding our partner ecosystem, and by creating the infrastructure for volume business. The demand for, and customers’ acceptance of, new products, technologies, and services we introduce are subject to uncertainty. Despite our efforts, demand for our products, technologies, and services may fail to develop as planned, and this could have a material negative impact on our business, financial position, profit, or cash flows. In addition, entering new market segments exposes us to the risks associated with developing and launching new products and services. For more information, see the Product Risks section. 16 Table of Contents Part I Item 3 If we fail to develop new relationships and enhance existing relationships with channel partners, software suppliers, system integrators, value-added resellers, and independent software vendors (ISVs) that contribute to the success of our products and services, our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows may be adversely impacted. A fundamental pillar of our success is a solid partner ecosystem. We have entered into cooperation agreements with channel partners and leading software and hardware vendors. Most of these agreements are of relatively short duration and are nonexclusive. The parties concerned typically maintain similar arrangements with our competitors, and some are our competitors. Additionally, we maintain a network of ISVs that develop their own business applications for the SAP NetWeaver technology platform. We are still exposed to risks related to our third-party relationships, such as that the relevant counterparties might not: • Devote sufficient resources to promote, sell, support, and integrate their products within our portfolio • Comply with applicable regulations, resulting in delayed, disrupted, or terminated sales and services • Renew their agreements with us at all or on terms acceptable to us • Provide high-quality products and services If one or more of these risks materialize, the marketing of and demand for our products and services may be adversely impacted, and we may not be able to compete successfully with other software vendors. This could harm our reputation or adversely impact our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. Human Capital Risks If we do not effectively manage our geographically dispersed workforce, our business may not operate efficiently, and this could have a negative impact on our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. Our success is dependent on appropriate alignment of our workforce planning process and location strategy with our general strategy. Changes in headcount and infrastructure needs could result in a mismatch between our expenses and revenue. It is critical that we manage our internationally dispersed workforce effectively, taking short and long term workforce and skill requirements into consideration. Our failure to do so could hinder our ability to operate our business efficiently, which could have a negative impact on our financial position, profit, and cash flows. If we are unable to attract and retain managers and employees with specialized knowledge and technology skills, we might not be able to manage our operations effectively or develop successful new products and services. Our highly qualified employees and managers provide the foundation for our continued success. Competition in our industry for highly skilled and specialized personnel and leaders is intense. In certain regions and specific technology and product areas, we have set ambitious growth targets (for example, in China). If we are unable to attract well-qualified personnel, or if our highly skilled and specialized personnel leave SAP and good replacements are not available, we may not be able to manage our operations effectively or develop successful new products and services as planned. This is particularly true as we continue to introduce new and innovative technology offerings and expand our business in emerging markets. Hiring such personnel may also expose us to claims by other companies seeking to prevent their employees from working for a competitor. 17 Table of Contents Part I Item 3 Organizational and Governance-Related Risks Corporate governance laws and regulatory requirements in Germany, the United States, and elsewhere have become much more stringent. As a stock corporation domiciled in Germany with securities listed in Germany and the United States, we are subject to German, U.S., and other governance-related regulatory requirements. The regulatory requirements have become significantly more stringent in recent years, and some legislation, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, is being applied more rigorously. The rules are highly complex, and there can be no assurance that we will not be held in breach of regulatory requirements if, for example, one or more employees behave fraudulently or negligently, or if we fail to comply with certain formal documentation requirements. Any related allegations of wrongdoing against us, whether merited or not, could have a material negative impact on our reputation as well as on the trading price of our ordinary shares and American depositary receipts (ADRs). Failure on our part to implement our sustainability strategy in a way that meets customer, partner, or other stakeholder expectations or generally accepted sustainability standards could harm our reputation and have a negative impact on our results of operations and our business. For SAP, sustainability means the holistic management of environmental, social, and economic risks and opportunities. We have identified sustainability risks in three major areas: • Functionality of our software • Sustainability in our solutions and green IT • Accessibility and security of our products • Privacy and data protection in connection with the use of SAP products (For more information, see the Product Risks section.) • SAP’s own sustainable operations • Energy management and other environmental issues like carbon management, water use, and waste • Business conduct • Human capital management, including health, safety, diversity, employee satisfaction, and talent attraction and retention (For more information, see the Human Capital Risks section.) • The ethical behavior of suppliers and partners • Customer satisfaction • Social investment • Education • Role models • Economic opportunity If our sustainability strategy and operations, which are described in our Sustainability Report at www.sapsustainabilityreport.com, are not sufficient to meet the expectations of our customers, investors, and partners, or generally accepted sustainability standards, this could harm our reputation and have an adverse impact on our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. Principal shareholders may be able to exert control over our future direction and operations. If SAP AG’s principal shareholders and the holdings of entities controlled by them vote in the same manner, this could delay, prevent or facilitate a change in control of SAP or other significant changes to SAP AG or its capital structure. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related-Party Transactions — Major Shareholders” for further information. 18 Table of Contents Part I Item 3 U.S. judgments may be difficult or impossible to enforce against us or our Board members. Currently, except for Bill McDermott and Vishal Sikka, all members of SAP AG’s Executive Board and all members of the Supervisory Board are non-residents of the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of SAP and our Board members are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States upon non-U.S. resident persons or SAP or to enforce against non-U.S. resident persons judgments obtained in U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States. In addition, awards of punitive damages in actions brought in the United States or elsewhere may be unenforceable in Germany. Communication and Information Risks We may not be able to prevent unauthorized disclosure of information that is subject to regulatory requirements, or are trade secrets, and such disclosure may harm our business and reputation. Confidential communications and information about sensitive subjects, such as our future strategies, technologies, and products; mergers and acquisitions; unpublished financial results; or customer, employee, or other personal data could be inadvertently or prematurely disclosed. Such disclosure may require notification of multiple regulatory agencies and the data owner, where appropriate, which may damage our market position, reduce future revenue, or lead to fines and penalties, any of which could have a significant negative impact on our business, reputation, financial position, profit, and cash flows. Financial Risks Our sales are subject to quarterly fluctuations and our sales forecasts may not be accurate, which could negatively impact our profit margin. Our revenue and operating results can vary and have varied in the past, sometimes substantially, from quarter to quarter. Our revenue in general, and in particular our software revenue, is difficult to forecast for a number of reasons, including: • The relatively long sales cycles for our products • The large size and extended timing of individual license transactions • The introduction of new licensing and deployment models such as on-demand and subscription models • The timing of the introduction of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors • Changes in customer budgets • Decreased software sales that could have a significant negative impact on related maintenance revenue • Licensing models that require the recognition of revenue over an extended period of time • Seasonality of a customer’s technology purchases • Limited visibility into the ability of acquired companies to accurately predict their sales pipelines and the likelihood that the projected pipeline will convert favorably into sales • Other general economic, social, and market conditions, such as the global economic crisis and the current difficulties for countries with large debt Because many of our customers make their IT purchasing decisions near the end of calendar quarters, and with a significant percentage of those decisions being made during the fourth quarter, even a small delay in purchasing decisions could have a significant negative impact on our revenue results for a given year. Our dependence on large transactions has decreased in recent years with a trend towards an increased number of transactions coupled with a decrease in deal size. However, the loss or delay of one or a few large sales, which are still characteristic of 19 Table of Contents Part I Item 3 the large enterprise segment, could have a significant negative impact on our results. We use a “pipeline” system to forecast sales and trends in our business. Pipeline analysis informs and guides our business planning, budgeting, and forecasting, but pipeline estimates do not necessarily consistently correlate to revenue in a particular quarter. The reliability of our plans, budgets, and forecasts may therefore be compromised. Because our operating expenses are based upon anticipated revenue levels and a high percentage of our expenses are relatively fixed in the near term, any shortfall in anticipated revenue or delay in revenue recognition could result in significant variations in our results of operations from quarter to quarter or year to year. Continued deterioration in global economic conditions would make it increasingly difficult for us to accurately forecast demand for our products and services, and could cause our revenue, results of operations and cash flows to fall short of our expectations and public forecasts. That could have a significant negative impact on our stock price. To the extent any future expenditure fails to generate the anticipated increase in revenue, our quarterly or annual operating results may be subject to a significant negative impact and may vary significantly from preceding or subsequent periods. External factors may impact our liquidity and increase the default risk associated with and the valuation of our financial assets and trade receivables. An economic downturn could have a significant negative impact on our future liquidity. We use global centralized financial management to control liquid assets, interest, and currencies. The primary aim is to maintain liquidity in the Group at a level that is adequate to meet our obligations. Our total group liquidity was €5.6 billion on December 31, 2011. This position is supported by our strong operating cash flows, of which a large part is recurring, and by credit facilities on which we can draw if necessary. However, an economic downturn could increase the default risk associated with our total group liquidity. That could have a significant negative impact on the valuation of our financial assets. SAP’s investment policy with regard to total Group liquidity is set out in our internal treasury guideline document, which is a collection of uniform rules that apply globally to all companies in the Group. Among its stipulations, it requires that with limited exceptions we invest only in assets and funds rated A- or better. The weighted average rating of our total group liquidity is in the range A to A-. We continue to pursue a policy of cautious investment characterized by wide portfolio diversification with a variety of counterparties, predominantly short-term investments, and standard investment instruments. There can be no assurance that the prescribed measures will be successful or that uncertainty in global economic conditions will not have a significant negative impact on our business, financial position, and profit. Management’s use of estimates could affect our financial position, profit, and cash flows. To comply with IFRS, management is required to make many judgments, estimates, and assumptions. The facts and circumstances on which management bases these estimates and judgments, and management’s judgment regarding the facts and circumstances, may change from time to time and this could result in significant changes in the estimates, with a significant negative impact on our financial position, profit, or cash flows. For more information, see the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements section, Note (3c). Current and future accounting pronouncements and other financial reporting standards, especially but not only concerning revenue recognition, may have a significant negative impact on the financial results we present. We regularly monitor our compliance with all of the financial reporting standards that are 20 Table of Contents Part I Item 3 applicable to us and any new pronouncements that are relevant to us. As a result, we might be required to change our accounting policies, particularly concerning revenue recognition, to alter our business models so that it reflects new or amended financial reporting standards, or to restate our published financial statements. We cannot exclude the possibility that this may have a significant negative impact on our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. For a summary of significant accounting policies, see the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements section, Note (3). Because we conduct operations throughout the world, our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows may be affected by currency and interest rate fluctuations. Our Group-wide management reporting and our external financial reporting are both in euros. Nevertheless, a significant portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than the euro. Approximately 69% of our revenue in 2011 was attributable to operations outside the euro area and was translated into euros. Consequently, period-over-period changes in the euro rates for particular currencies can significantly affect our reported revenue and income. In general, appreciation of the euro relative to another currency has a negative effect while depreciation of the euro relative to another currency has a positive effect. Variable-interest balance-sheet items are also subject to changes in interest rates, so there is a risk that these balance-sheet items may result in an adverse impact on our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. For more information about our currency and interest-rate risks and our related hedging activity, see the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements section, Notes (25) and (26). The cost of using derivative instruments to hedge share-based payment plans may exceed the benefits of hedging them. We use derivative instruments to reduce the impact of our share-based payment plans on our income statement and to limit future expense associated with those plans. We decide case by case whether and to what extent we should hedge this risk. The expense of hedging the share-based payment plans could exceed the benefit achieved by hedging them or that a decision to leave the plans materially unhedged might prove disadvantageous. The market price for our ADRs and ordinary shares may be volatile. The trading prices of our ADRs and ordinary shares have experienced and may continue to experience significant volatility in response to various factors including, but not limited to: • the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • technological innovation by us or our competitors; • quarterly variations in our results of operations or results that fail to meet our or our financial analysts’ expectations; • the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • changes in revenue and revenue growth rates on a consolidated basis or for specific geographic areas, business units, products or product categories; • changes in our externally communicated outlook or credit rating; • changes in our capital structure, for example due to the potential future issuance of addition debt instruments; • general market conditions specific to particular industries; • litigation to which we are a party; • general and country specific economic or political conditions (particularly wars, terrorist attacks, etc.); 21 Table of Contents Part I Item 3 • proposed and completed acquisitions or other significant transactions by us or our competitors; and • general market conditions. Many of these factors are beyond our control. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to shareholder lawsuits including securities class action litigation. Any such lawsuits against us, with or without merit, could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management’s attention and resources, resulting in a decline in our results of operations and our stock price. Project Risks Implementation of SAP software often involves a significant commitment of resources by our customers and is subject to a number of significant risks over which we often have no control. A core element of our business is the successful implementation of software solutions to enable our customers to make their business a best-run business. The implementation of SAP software is led by SAP, by partners, by customers, or by a combination thereof. Depending on various factors, such as the complexity of solutions, the customer’s implementation needs or the resources required, SAP faces a number of different risks. For example, trained consultants might not be immediately available to assist customers in the implementation of our products, the features of the implemented software might not meet customers’ expectations or the software might not fit the business model of the customer, customer-specific factors may destabilize the implementation of the software, or customers and partners might not implement the measures offered by SAP to safeguard against functional and technical risks. As a result of these and other risks, some of our customers have incurred significant implementation costs in connection with the purchase and installation of SAP software products. Also, some customers’ implementations have taken longer than planned. We cannot guarantee that we can reduce or eliminate protracted installation or significant third-party consulting costs, that shortages of trained consultants will not occur, or that our costs will not exceed the agreed-upon fees on fixed-price contracts. Unsuccessful customer implementation projects could result in claims from customers, harm SAP’s reputation, and cause a loss of future revenues. Product Risks We use technologies under license from third parties. The loss of the right to use technologies could delay implementation of our products or force us to pay higher license fees. We have taken numerous third-party technologies under license and incorporated them into our products and we depend on those technologies in the aggregate. There can be no assurance that the licenses for these third-party technologies will not be terminated, that the licenses will be available in the future on terms acceptable to us, or that we will be able to obtain third-party software licenses for future products. Changes to or the loss of third-party licenses could lead to a material increase in the cost of licensing, or that SAP software products may become unusable or materially reduced in their functional scope. As a result, we could incur additional development or license costs to ensure the continued functionality of our products. The risks increase where we acquire a company or a company’s intellectual property assets that have been subject to third-party technology licensing and product standards less rigorous than our own. 22 Table of Contents Part I Item 3 If we are unable to keep up with rapid technological innovations and the expectations of our customers, we may not be able to compete as effectively as our competitors. Our future success continues to depend on our ability to enhance and expand our existing products, technology, and services and keep pace with technological developments (including evolving cybersecurity threats). It also depends on our ability to introduce new products, technologies, and services that are accepted in the market and that satisfy changing customer requirements. We might not be successful in bringing new solutions, solution enhancements, and services to market before our competitors, and we might not be able to generate enough revenue to offset the significant research and development costs we incur. Moreover, we might not anticipate and develop technological improvements or succeed in adapting our products to technological change, changing regulatory requirements, emerging industry standards, and changing customer requirements. Finally, we might not succeed in producing high-quality products, enhancements, and releases in a timely and cost-effective manner to compete with applications and other technologies offered by our competitors. Undetected defects or delays in the introduction of new products and product enhancements may result in increased costs to us and reduced demand for our products. To achieve customer acceptance, our new products and product enhancements often require long development and testing periods. Development work is subject to various risks. For example, scheduled market launches could be delayed, or products might not completely satisfy our stringent quality standards, meet market needs or the expectations of customers, or comply with local standards and requirements. New products may contain undetected defects or they may not be mature enough to process large volumes of data. In some circumstances, we might not be in a position to rectify such defects or entirely meet the expectations of customers. As a result, we might be faced with customer claims for cash refunds, damages, replacement software, or other concessions. The risk of defects and their adverse consequences could increase as we seek to introduce a variety of new software products simultaneously. Significant undetected defects or delays in introducing new products or product enhancements could affect market acceptance of SAP software products, and adversely impact our reputation, business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. The use of SAP software products by customers in business-critical applications and processes and the relative complexity and technical interdependency of our software products create a risk that customers or third parties may pursue warranty, performance, or other claims against us for actual or alleged defects in SAP software products, in our provision of services, or in our application hosting services. We have in the past been, and may in the future be, subject to warranty, performance, or other similar claims. Although our contracts generally contain provisions designed to limit our exposure due to actual or alleged defects in SAP software products or in our provision of services, these provisions may not cover every eventuality or be effective under the applicable law. Regardless of its merits, any claim could entail substantial expense and require the devotion of significant time and attention by key management personnel. Publicity surrounding such claims could affect our reputation and the demand for our software. Our technology strategy may not succeed or customers may not adopt our technology platform offering. Our technology strategy centers on the SAP NetWeaver technology platform, the Sybase Unwired Platform, and our on-demand platform. Its success depends on the convergence of our platforms and their 23 Table of Contents Part I Item 3 integration with our in-memory database technology. It also relies on our ability to maintain a dynamic network of ISVs developing their own business applications using our platform technology. As with any open platform design, the greater flexibility provided to customers to use data generated by non-SAP software might reduce customer demand to select and use certain SAP software products. If our technology platform strategy is not well received by customers, if competitors develop superior technology, or if our solutions have significant defects, this could have an adverse impact on our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. Cybersecurity Risks Undetected security flaws in our software or our proprietary systems or those of our third-party service and software providers may be exploited by other persons, which could damage SAP or our customers and significantly impact our financial position, profit, cash flows, and reputation. Our core processes, such as software development, sales and marketing, customer service, financial transactions, and cloud services rely on our IT infrastructure and applications. Malicious software, sabotage, cyber incidents, natural disasters, or the failure of an underlying technology (such as the Internet) could cause an outage of our infrastructure, which could lead to a substantial denial of service and ultimately to production downtime, recovery costs, and customer claims. This could have a significant negative impact on our business, financial position, profit, or cash flows. We are to a substantial extent dependent on the exchange of a wide range of information over our publicly available infrastructure. Specifically, our products and services, including our cloud offerings, rely on this infrastructure and our applications. We have implemented a number of measures designed to ensure the security of our information, IT resources, and other assets. Nonetheless, unauthorized users could gain access to our systems through cyber-attacks and steal, use without authorization, and sabotage our intellectual property and confidential data. Any breach of our IT security, misuse, or theft could lead to loss of production, to recovery costs, or to litigation brought by customers or business partners, which could have a significant negative impact on our business, financial position, profit, cash flows, and reputation. There is a danger of industrial espionage, cyber-attacks, misuse, or theft of information or assets, or damage to assets by trespassers in our facilities or by people who have gained authorized access to our facilities, systems, or information. Such cybersecurity breaches, misuse, or other disruptions could jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems as well as the computer systems of our customers, service providers, or business partners. Such misuse could potentially lead to the leakage of confidential information, improper use of our systems and networks, manipulation and destruction of data, defective products, production downtimes, and supply shortages. This could lead to significant claims for damages against us. Additionally, despite testing prior to their release, our products may contain security flaws, particularly when first introduced or when new versions are released. Because technologies used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Actual or alleged defects could expose us to product liability claims and warranty claims, and harm our reputation, and that could impact our future sales of products and services. Our products include security features that are intended to protect the privacy and integrity of our customers’ data. We devote significant resources to training our personnel and addressing security vulnerabilities through 24 Table of Contents Part I Item 3 engineering more secure products, continuously enhancing security and reliability features in our products and systems, deploying security updates to address security vulnerabilities, and improving our incident response time. In addition, we have implemented a variety of defense mechanisms intended to safeguard our infrastructure. Examples are firewalls, antivirus software, intrusion detection systems, and high-availability landscapes — including our development and quality infrastructures. We adhere to several best practices, many of which are regularly certified. However, we cannot guarantee that these measures will be adequate to prevent serious impairment of our business operations. A data security breach could have a significant negative impact on SAP and our customers. SAP products and services, including those used by our customers on the Internet, rely on our IT infrastructure and applications. Unauthorized users could gain access to our systems through cyber-attacks and introduce backdoors or steal, use without authorization, and sabotage our intellectual property and confidential data. A breach of our IT security could lead to loss of production, to recovery costs, or to litigation brought by customers or business partners, which could have a significant negative impact on our business, financial position, reputation, profit, and cash flows. We continuously employ IT security programs to manage identified risks and monitor whether these measures, including firewalls, intrusion detection and anti-virus applications are adequate to prevent serious impairment of our business operations as the method and variety of cyber-attacks are rapidly escalating and changing. Additionally, as noted in the description of the previous risk, we adhere to several certified best practices. Other Operational Risks Third parties have claimed, and might claim in the future, that we infringe their intellectual property rights, which could lead to damages being awarded against us and limit our ability to utilize certain technologies in the future. We continue to believe that we will increasingly be subject to intellectual property infringement claims as the number of products in our industry segment grows, as we acquire companies, with increased use of third party code including open source code and as we expand into new industry segments with our products, resulting in greater overlap in the functional scope of products. Any claims, with or without merit, and negotiations or litigation relating to such claims, could preclude us from utilizing certain technologies in our products, be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, and require us to pay damages to third parties, stop selling or reconfigure our products and, under certain circumstances, pay fines and indemnify our customers. They could also require us to enter into royalty and licensing arrangements on terms that are not favorable to us, cause product shipment delays, subject our products to injunctions, require a complete or partial redesign of products, result in delays to our customers’ investment decisions, and damage our reputation. Software includes many components or modules that provide different features and perform different functions. Some of these features or functions may be subject to third-party intellectual property rights. The rights of another party could encompass technical aspects that are similar to one or more technologies in one or more of our products. Intellectual property rights of third parties could preclude us from using certain technologies in our products or require us to enter into royalty and licensing arrangements on unfavorable or expensive terms. 25 Table of Contents Part I Item 3 The software industry is making increasing use of open source software in its development work on solutions. We also integrate certain open source software components from third parties into our software. Open source licenses may require that the software code in those components or the software into which they are integrated be freely accessible under open source terms. Third-party claims may require us to make freely accessible under open source terms a product of ours or non-SAP software upon which we depend. In addition to open source, SAP continues to expand its participation in standards organizations and increase the use of standards in its products. Participation in standards organizations may require licensing of SAP’s intellectual property to contributors to the standard or to all standards implementers, including competitors, on a nondiscriminatory basis in accordance with licensing terms defined by standards organizations. Within the software-related standards field, there is a trend toward expanding the scope of licensing obligations and narrowing an intellectual property owner’s right to revoke a license if sued by a licensee. This could further reduce our ability to use intellectual property related to standards. Use of patents inadvertently licensed through standards could expose SAP to third-party claims. Consequently, compliance with open source or certain standards could have a material negative impact on our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. Claims and lawsuits against us could have a material negative impact on our business, financial position, profit, cash flows, and reputation. Claims and lawsuits are brought against us, including claims and lawsuits involving businesses we have acquired. Adverse outcomes to some or all of the claims and lawsuits pending against us might result in the award of significant damages or injunctive relief against us that could negatively impact our ability to conduct our business. The outcome of litigation and other claims or lawsuits is intrinsically uncertain. Management’s view of the litigation may also change in the future. Actual outcomes of litigation and other claims or lawsuits could differ from the assessments made by management in prior periods, which could result in a material negative impact on our business, financial position, profit, cash flows, and reputation. For more information, see the discussion of our legal liability risks in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements section, Note (24). We might not acquire and integrate companies effectively or successfully and our strategic alliances might not be successful. To expand our business, we have in the past made acquisitions of businesses, products, and technologies. We expect to continue to make such acquisitions in the future. Management’s negotiation of potential acquisitions and alliances and integration of acquired businesses, products, or technologies demands time, focus, and resources of management and of the workforce. Acquisitions carry many additional risks. These include, among others: • The selection of the wrong integration model for the acquired company • The failure to integrate the acquired business and its different business and licensing models • The failure to integrate the acquired technologies or products with our current products and technologies • The loss of key personnel of the acquired business • Material unknown liabilities and contingent liabilities of acquired companies, including legal, tax, intellectual property, or other significant liabilities that may not be detected by the due diligence process 26 Table of Contents Part I Item 3 • Debt incurrence or significant cash expenditures • Difficulties in implementing, restoring, or maintaining internal controls, procedures, and policies • Negative impact on relationships with customers, partners, or third-party providers of technology or products • Difficulties in integrating the acquired company’s accounting, human resource, and other administrative systems • Legal and regulatory constraints • Practices or policies of the acquired company that may be incompatible with our compliance requirements In addition, acquired businesses might not perform as anticipated, resulting in charges for the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets on our statements of financial position. Such charges may have a significant negative impact on operating margins and profit. We have entered into, and expect to continue to enter into, alliance arrangements for a variety of purposes, including the development of new products and services. There can be no assurance that any such products or services will be successfully developed or that we will not incur significant unanticipated liabilities in connection with such arrangements. We may not be successful in overcoming these risks and we may therefore not benefit as anticipated from acquisitions or alliances. We may not be able to obtain adequate title to or licenses in, or to enforce, intellectual property. Protecting and defending our intellectual property is key to our success. We use a variety of means to identify and monitor potential risks and to protect our intellectual property. These include applying for patents, registering trademarks and other marks and copyrights and rights of authorship, taking certain action to stop copyright and trademark infringement, entering into licensing, confidentiality, and nondisclosure agreements, and deploying protection technology. Despite our efforts, there can be no assurance that we can prevent third parties from obtaining, using, or selling without authorization what we regard as our proprietary technology and information. All of these measures afford only limited protection, and our proprietary rights could be challenged, invalidated, held unenforceable, or otherwise affected. Some intellectual property may be vulnerable to disclosure or misappropriation by employees, partners, or other third parties. There can also be no assurance that third parties will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. Also, it may be possible for third parties to reverse-engineer or otherwise obtain and use technology and information that we regard as proprietary. Accordingly, we might not be able to protect our proprietary rights against unauthorized third-party copying or utilization, which could have a significant negative impact on our competitive position and our financial position, and result in reduced sales. Any legal action we bring to enforce our proprietary rights could be costly, distract management from day-to-day operations, and lead to claims against us, which could have a significant negative impact on our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. Such actions by us could also involve enforcement against a partner or other third party, which may have a significant negative effect on our ability, and our customers’ ability, to use that partner’s or other third parties’ products. In addition, the laws and courts of certain countries may not offer effective means to enforce our intellectual property rights. We may not be able to protect our critical information or assets or safeguard our business operations against disruption. As a global software business, we are to a substantial extent dependent on the exchange of a wide range of information and on the availability of the infrastructure we use. In 2011, we implemented a number of additional measures designed to ensure the security of our 27 Table of Contents Part I Item 3, 4 information, IT resources, and other assets. Nonetheless, there is still a danger of industrial espionage, cyber-attacks, misuse, or theft of information or assets, or damage to assets by trespassers in our facilities or by people who have gained authorized access to our facilities, systems, or information. Any misuse, theft, or breach of security could have a significant negative impact on our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to prevent claim settlements from adversely impacting our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. We continue to maintain and manage insurance coverage against a diverse portfolio of risks. Our objective is to ensure that financial effects of occurrences are excluded or minimized to the extent practicable at reasonable cost. Despite these measures, certain categories of risks are still not currently insurable at reasonable cost. Even if we obtain insurance, our coverage may be subject to exclusions that limit or prevent our indemnification under the policies. Further, we cannot guarantee the ability of the insurance companies to meet their liabilities from claims. If these risks materialize, it may have a negative impact on our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. We may incur losses in connection with venture capital investments. We plan to continue investing in technology businesses through our subsidiary SAP Ventures. Many of these enterprises currently generate net losses and require additional capital outlay from their investors. Changes to planned business operations have in the past, and also may in the future, affect the performance of companies in which SAP holds investments, and that could negatively affect the value of our investments. Moreover, for tax purposes, the use of capital losses and impairments of equity securities is often restricted, which may adversely affect our effective tax rate. 