RISK FACTORS Economic Risks A downturn in the economic conditions in the regions in which we operate, in the software markets in those regions or in our customers’ specific industries has in the past resulted, and may in the future result, in a significant fluctuation of demand for our products, causing our revenues and profitability to suffer. Implementation of SAP software products can constitute a major portion of our customers’ overall corporate budget, and the amount customers are willing to invest in acquiring and implementing SAP products and the timing of our customers’ investments have tended to vary due to economic or financial crises or other business conditions. A recession or slow or weak economic recovery of technology and software markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, operating results or cash flows. In particular, our profitability and cash flows may be significantly adversely affected by adverse economic conditions in Europe or the United States because we derive a substantial portion of our revenue from software licenses and services in those geographic regions. One important feature of our long-term strategy for growth is to increase our offerings for the small and midsize enterprise segment. A slowdown in growth, recession, or slow or weak economic recovery could inhibit 11 Table of Contents the creation and financial strength of those businesses and thereby delay or prevent altogether that key element of our growth strategy. See “Item 4. Information About SAP — Business by Region” for information on the regions in which we operate and “Item 4. Information About SAP — Revenue by Industry Sector” for information on the industries in which our customers operate. Social and political instabilities including those caused by terrorist attacks, the risk of war or international hostilities as well as the risk of pandemic disease outbreaks could adversely impact our business. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war as well as the risk of pandemic disease outbreaks and natural disasters could have a negative impact on the world economy, contribute to a climate of economic and political uncertainty and affect our and our customers’ revenue growth and investment decisions over an extended period of time. Furthermore, such occurrences could make business continuity and business travel more difficult, thus interfering with customers’ decision making processes and our ability to sell products and provide services to them. Because we expect to continue to expand globally, we may face specific economic and regulatory challenges that we may not be able to meet. Our products and services are currently marketed in over 120 countries in the Europe, Middle East and Africa (“EMEA”), North America and Latin America (“Americas”) and Asia Pacific Japan (“APJ”) regions. Sales in these regions are subject to risks inherent in international business activities, including, in particular: • general economic or political conditions in each country or region; • the overlap of differing tax structures; • the management of an organization spread over various jurisdictions; • exchange rate fluctuations; and • regulatory constraints such as export restrictions, regulation of the Internet, and additional requirements for the design and for the distribution of software and services. Other general risks associated with international operations include import and export licensing requirements, trade restrictions, changes in tariff and freight rates and travel and communication costs. There can be no assurance that our international operations will continue to be successful or that we will be able to effectively manage the increased level of international operations. Market Risks Consolidation in the software industry may result in instability of software demand and stronger peer companies in the long term. The entire IT sector, including the software industry, has in recent years experienced a period of consolidation through mergers and acquisitions. Although consolidations in the industry may create market opportunities for remaining players, uncertainty among potential customers about future IT investment plans can also result which can cause longer sales cycles for us. Also, consolidated companies may emerge as stronger competitors with more resources, a larger customer base and a wider variety of product offerings than what we have. 12 Table of Contents Due to intense competition, our market share and financial performance could suffer. The software industry is intensely competitive. As part of our business strategy, over the last few years we have focused our efforts in areas where demand is expected to grow more rapidly. In particular, we have been focusing on the completion of our enterprise service-oriented architecture road map, customer relationship management on-demand solutions, solutions for small and midsize enterprises such as our new SAP Business ByDesign on-demand solution, as well as industry-tailored solutions for specific industries such as retail and financial services. Our expansion from traditional large enterprise resource planning (ERP) product offerings exposes us to different competitors in size, geographic location and specialty. Current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase the ability of their products to address customer needs better than we do. Competition, with respect to pricing, product quality and functionalities/features, and consulting and support services, could increase substantially and result in price reductions, cost increases or loss of segment share. The continuing trend towards outsourcing business processes to external providers (business process outsourcing, or “BPO”) could result in increased competition for us with systems integrators, consulting firms, telecommunications firms, computer hardware and software vendors and other IT service providers. The software application delivery model often referred to as “SaaS,” or software as a service, is becoming popular particularly in the mid-market due to its low initial cost requirements and Web-based operability. Our on-demand solutions, including the newly introduced SAP Business ByDesign targeted for midsize enterprises, face strong competition in this SaaS arena. In response to competition, we have been required in the past, and may be required in the future, to furnish additional discounts or other concessions to customers or otherwise modify our pricing practices. These developments have impacted and may increasingly negatively impact our revenue and earnings. Our future revenue is dependent in part upon our installed customer base continuing to license additional products, renew maintenance agreements and purchase additional professional services. Our large installed customer base has traditionally generated additional new software, maintenance, consulting and training revenues. Some of the recently developed or planned SAP offerings are geared towards substantially expanding the scope of potential users within our installed customer base such as our business user solutions — tools and applications designed to help companies organize and manage information to optimize everyday business activities and improve the way employees work. Examples include Duet, a joint solution offering developed with Microsoft Corporation, and various BI (business intelligence) solutions by SAP as well as Business Objects, which we acquired in the first quarter of 2008. We believe that such offerings pose an opportunity for us to continue to generate revenue from existing customers. If we are unable to enhance our existing products and services or develop new products according to market needs in a timely manner, customers may not necessarily license additional SAP products or contract for additional services or maintenance in the future, in which case our revenues could decrease and our operating results could be adversely affected. Strategic Planning Risks Demand for our newly introduced products such as SAP Business ByDesign targeted for midsize companies may not develop as planned and our midmarket strategy with the new business model may not be successful. We are investing significant resources in further developing and marketing new and enhanced products and services. Demand and customer acceptance for recently introduced products and services are subject to a high level of uncertainty. 13 Table of Contents Targeting midsize companies with our new SAP Business ByDesign solution has been a key part of our strategy. To that end, expanding our network of business partners and creating the infrastructure for volume business are of great importance. To tap potential business in the lower midmarket, we have spent approximately €125 million in 2007 in sales channels, process, infrastructure, and human resources, all oriented toward new customer relationships and a larger, diversified partner ecosystem. We consider the offering of our newly architectured solution, SAP Business ByDesign, to be a new business model for us in contrast to our traditional software solution offerings because of its different approach to market and different product appeal to a large mass of midsize companies who have traditionally not considered purchasing an integrated business application to support their core business functions. For example, SAP Business ByDesign allows personalized online trials before purchase and is designed for rapid deployment with ready-to-use functionality and preconfigured business processes. Despite our efforts, demand for these products and services may not develop, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations or cash flows. Our failure to develop new relationships and enhance existing relationships with third-party distributors, software suppliers, system integrators and value-added resellers that help sell our services and products may adversely affect our revenues. We have entered into agreements with a number of leading computer software and hardware suppliers and other technology providers to cooperate and ensure that certain of the products produced by such suppliers are compatible with SAP software products. We have also supplemented our consulting and support services (in the areas of product implementation, training and maintenance) through alliance partnerships with third-party hardware and software suppliers, systems integrators, and consulting firms. Most of these agreements and alliances are of relatively short duration and non-exclusive. In addition, we have established relationships relating to the resale of certain of our software products by third parties. These third parties include value-added resellers and, in the area of application hosting services, certain computer hardware vendors, systems integrators and telecommunications providers. Our growth strategy includes commencing and maintaining relationships with independent software vendors and value added resellers for our products targeted at small and midsize enterprises. There can be no assurance that these third parties or business partners, most of whom have similar arrangements with our competitors and some of whom also produce their own standard application or technology integration software in competition with us, will continue to cooperate with us when such agreements or partnerships expire or are up for renewal. In addition, there can be no assurance that such third parties or partners will provide high-quality products or services or that actions taken or omitted to be taken by such parties will not adversely affect us. The failure to obtain high-quality products or services or to renew such agreements or partnerships could adversely affect our ability to continue to develop product enhancements and new solutions that keep pace with anticipated changes in hardware and software technology and telecommunications, or could adversely affect our ability to penetrate target markets and consequently the demand for our software products. Human Capital Risks If we were to lose the services of members of management and employees or fail to attract new personnel who possess specialized knowledge and technology skills, we may not be able to manage our operations effectively or develop new products and services. Our operations could be adversely affected if senior managers or other skilled personnel were to leave and qualified replacements were not available. Competition for managerial and skilled personnel in the software industry remains intense. Especially as we embark on the introduction of new and innovative technology offerings, we are relying on being able to build up and maintain a specialized workforce with deep technological 14 Table of Contents know-how to ensure an optimal implementation of such new technologies in accordance with our clients’ demands. Such personnel in certain regions (including the United States, Europe and India) are in short supply. We expect continued increases in compensation costs in order to attract and retain senior managers and skilled employees, especially in times of strong economic growth. Most of our current employees, with the exception of selected managers, are subject to employment agreements or conditions that do not contain post-employment noncompete provisions and, in the case of most of our existing employees outside of Germany, permit the employees to terminate their employment on relatively short notice. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be able to attract and retain the personnel we require to develop and market new and enhanced products and to market and service our existing products and conduct our operations successfully. Further, our recruiting of personnel may expose us to claims from other companies seeking to prevent their employees from working for a competitor. If we do not effectively manage our growth, our existing personnel and systems may be strained and our business may not operate efficiently. We have a history of rapid growth and will need to effectively manage our future growth to be successful. In the past years, we experienced an industry-wide trend in customer spending away from a lower volume of very large contracts to a higher volume of smaller contracts. In order to support our future growth, we expect to continue in the long-term to incur significant costs to increase headcount in key areas of our business, explore and/or enter new markets and build infrastructure ahead of anticipated revenue. We increased our headcount by 10% in 2006 and by 12% in 2007. There can be no assurance that significant increases in employees and infrastructure will lead to growth in revenue or operating results in the future. Also, there is no assurance that we will be able to meet these increased staffing needs by increasing headcount in lower cost countries such as India or China due to, for example, increased competition for skilled workers in such countries. As a result, our operating margin and revenue figures per employee could decline. In addition, the ability to control costs could adversely affect revenue, profitability and cash flow in the future. Organizational and Governance-related Risks Principal shareholders may be able to exert control over our future direction and operations. As of March 14, 2008, the beneficial holdings of SAP AG’s principal shareholders and the holdings of entities controlled by them constituted in the aggregate approximately 29% of the outstanding ordinary shares of SAP AG. If SAP AG’s principal shareholders and the holdings of entities controlled by them vote in the same manner, it may have the effect of delaying, preventing or facilitating a change in control of SAP or other significant changes to SAP AG or its capital structure. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related-Party Transactions — Major Shareholders.” Sales of ordinary shares by principal shareholders could adversely affect the price of our capital stock. The sale of a large number of ordinary shares by any of the principal shareholders and related entities could have a negative effect on the trading price of our ADSs or our ordinary shares. We are not aware of any restrictions on the transferability of the shares owned by any of the principal shareholders or related entities. We are subject to significantly increased governance-related regulatory requirements both in Germany and the United States SAP AG as a stock corporation domiciled in Germany and listed in Germany and the United States is subject to governance-related regulatory requirements under both jurisdictions. These standards are among the highest standards worldwide and have grown considerably in the past few years. In the United States, the 15 Table of Contents Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires the establishment, ongoing assessment and certification of an effective system of internal control over financial reporting accompanied by stringent documentation efforts for companies and their external auditors. Also in the United States, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act requires not only accurate books and records, but also sufficient controls, policies and processes to ensure business is conducted without the influence of bribery and corruption on an international scale. Since the German federal government issued the “10-point program to strengthen corporate integrity and investor protection” in February 2003, various new legislation was passed to improve investor protection, transparency and shareholder democracy. Given the high level of complexity of these laws there can be no assurance that we will not be held in breach of certain regulatory requirements, for example, through fraudulent or negligent behavior of individual employees, our failure to comply with certain formal documentation requirements or otherwise. Any corresponding accusation against us, whether merited or not, may have a material adverse impact on our reputation as well as the trading price of our ordinary shares and ADSs. U.S. judgments may be difficult or impossible to enforce against us or our Board members. SAP AG is a stock corporation organized under the laws of Germany. Currently, except for John Schwarz, all members of SAP AG’s Executive Board and all members of the Supervisory Board are non-residents of the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of SAP and such persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States upon non-U.S. resident persons or us or to enforce against non-U.S. resident persons judgments obtained in U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States. In addition, awards of punitive damages in actions brought in the United States or elsewhere may be unenforceable in Germany. Communication and Information Risks We may not be able to prevent harmful information leakage about future strategies, technologies and products. We have established a range of security standards and organizational communication protocols to help ensure that internal, confidential communications and information about sensitive subjects such as our future strategies, technologies and products are not improperly or prematurely disclosed to the public. There is no guarantee that the established protective mechanisms will work in every case. SAP’s competitive position could be considerably compromised if confidential information about the future direction of our product development or other strategies became public knowledge. Our IT security measures may be breached or compromised and we may sustain unplanned IT system unavailability. We rely on encryption, authentication technology and firewalls to provide security for confidential information transmitted to and from us over the Internet. Anyone who circumvents our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our services or operations. The Internet is a public network, and data is sent over this network from many sources. In the past, computer viruses and software programs that disable or impair computers have been distributed and have rapidly spread over the Internet. Computer viruses could be introduced into our systems or those of our customers or suppliers, which could disrupt our network or make it inaccessible to customers or suppliers. Our security measures may be inadequate to prevent security breaches, and our business would be harmed if we do not prevent them. In addition, we may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches and to alleviate problems caused by breaches as well as by any unplanned unavailability of our internal IT systems generally for other reasons. 16 Table of Contents Wide acceptance of the use of Web-based transactions may be hindered due to privacy concerns. Consumers have significant concerns about secure transmissions of confidential information, especially financial information, over public networks like the Internet. This remains a significant obstacle to general acceptance of e-commerce and certain aspects of our business. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments could result in compromises or breaches of security such as those that have generated widespread media attention. Continued high-profile cases of inadvertent and unauthorized disclosure of personal information could have the effect of substantially reducing the use of the Web for commerce and communications and therefore could adversely impact our long-term strategy for growth. Financial Risks Because we conduct our operations throughout the world, our results of operations may be affected by currency fluctuations. Although the euro has been our financial and reporting currency since January 1, 1999, a significant portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than the euro. Approximately 66% of our consolidated revenue in 2007 was attributable to operations in non-euro member states and translated into euro. As a consequence, period-to-period changes in the average exchange rate in a particular currency can significantly affect reported revenue and operating results. In general, appreciation of the euro relative to another currency has a negative effect on reported results of operations, while depreciation of the euro has a positive effect, although such effects may be short term in nature. Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar, the Japanese yen, the British pound, the Swiss franc, the Canadian dollar, and the Australian dollar have historically provided the greatest exposure to our risk of currency fluctuations. As our business in emerging markets such as India and China continues to experience strong growth, these countries’ respective currencies are growing in importance as well. We continually monitor our exposure to currency risk and pursue a company-wide foreign exchange risk management policy. We have in the past and expect to continue in the future to at least partly hedge such risks with certain financial instruments. There can be no assurance that our hedging activities, if any, will be effective. See “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk — Foreign Currency Risk.” Our sales are subject to quarterly fluctuations and our sales forecast may not be accurate. Our revenue and operating results can vary and have varied in the past, sometimes substantially, from quarter to quarter. Our revenue in general, and in particular our software revenue, is difficult to forecast for a number of reasons, including: • the relatively long sales cycles for our products; • the size and timing of individual license transactions; • the timing of the introduction of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • changes in customer budgets; • seasonality of a customer’s technology purchases; and • other general economic and market conditions. As many of our customers make and plan their IT purchasing decisions at or near the end of calendar quarters and a significant percentage of those decisions are made during the fourth quarter, even a small delay in purchasing decisions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. While our dependence on single, large scale sales transactions has decreased in recent years due to a relative increase in the number of 17 Table of Contents license transactions concluded by SAP, mainly attributable to SAP’s strengthened focus on the small and midsize enterprises (SME) segment, there can be no assurance that our results will not be adversely affected by the loss or delay of one or a few large sales, which continue to occur especially in the large enterprise segment. We use a “pipeline” system, a common industry practice, to forecast sales and trends in our business. Our sales personnel monitor the status of proposals, including the date when they estimate that a customer will make a purchase decision and the potential revenue from the sale. While this pipeline analysis may provide us with some guidance in business planning, budgeting and forecasting, these pipeline estimates may not consistently correlate to revenue in a particular quarter and could cause us to improperly plan, budget or forecast. Because our operating expenses are based upon anticipated revenue levels and because a high percentage of our expenses are relatively fixed in the near term, any shortfall in anticipated revenue or delay in recognition of revenue could result in significant variations in our results of operations from quarter to quarter or year to year. We increased over the recent years, and plan to continue to increase throughout 2008, the following expenditures: • expansion of our operations; • research and development directed towards new products and product enhancements; and • development of new distribution and resale channels, particularly for small and midsize enterprises. Such increases in expenditures will depend, among other things, upon ongoing results and evolving business needs. To the extent such expenses precede or are not subsequently followed by increased revenue, our quarterly or annual operating results would be materially adversely affected and may vary significantly from preceding or subsequent periods. Our revenue mix may vary and may negatively affect our profit margins. We generally license our software products for an upfront license fee based on the number and types of users or other applicable metrics. Maintenance fees are typically established based on a specified percentage of the license fee. Variances or slowdowns in our licensing activity may negatively impact our current and future revenue from maintenance and services since such maintenance and services revenues typically follow and are dependent upon software sales. Historically, the profit margin from our services arrangements is lower than that of our software sales. Any decrease in the percentage of our total revenue derived from software licensing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We have introduced new licensing models such as on-demand and subscription models which typically result in revenue being recognized over time. Although revenue from such new models is still relatively insignificant, we expect it to grow in the future. A significant portion of the related cost of developing, marketing and providing our solutions to customers under such new models could be incurred prior to the recognition of revenue, thus impacting our profit margin in the short term. The cost of derivative instruments for hedging of the STAR Plan may exceed the benefits of those arrangements. Under our stock appreciation rights plan (the “STAR Plan”), stock appreciation rights (“STARs”) are granted to eligible employees of SAP. The STARs are normally granted in the first quarter of each year and generally give the participants the right to a portion of the appreciation in the market price of the ordinary shares for the relevant measurement period. We have entered into in the past, and may enter into in the future, derivative instruments to hedge all or a portion of the anticipated cash flows in connection with the STARs in the event cash payments to participants are required as a result of an increase in the market price of the ordinary shares. We believe hedging anticipated cash flows in connection with the STARs limits the potential exposure associated with the STAR Plan, including potentially significant cash outlays and resulting compensation 18 Table of Contents expense. There can be no assurance, however, that the benefits achieved from hedging our STAR Plan will exceed the related costs. Management’s use of estimates may affect our results of operations and financial position. Our financial statements are based upon the accounting policies as described in Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements in “Item 18. Financial Statements.” Such policies require management to make significant estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses. Facts and circumstances which management uses in making estimates and judgments may change from time to time and may result in significant variations, including adverse effects on our results of operations or financial position. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Critical Accounting Policies.” Revenue recognition accounting pronouncements and interpretations may adversely affect our reported results of operations. We continuously review our compliance with all new and existing revenue recognition accounting pronouncements. Depending upon the outcome of these ongoing reviews and the potential issuance of further accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations, we may be required to modify our reported results, revenue recognition policies or business practices, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our revenue recognition policies are described in Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements in “Item 18. Financial Statements.” The market price for our ADSs and ordinary shares may remain volatile. The trading prices of our ADSs and ordinary shares have experienced and may continue to experience significant volatility. The current trading prices of the ADSs and the ordinary shares reflect certain expectations about the future performance and growth of SAP, particularly on a quarterly basis. However, our revenue can vary, sometimes substantially, from quarter to quarter, causing significant variations in operating results and in growth rates compared to prior periods. Any shortfall in revenue or earnings from levels projected by us quarterly or from projections made by securities analysts could have an immediate and significant adverse effect on the trading prices of the ADSs or the ordinary shares in any given period. Additionally, we may not be able to confirm our projections of any such shortfalls until late in the quarter or following the end of the quarter because license agreements are often executed late in a quarter. Finally, the stock prices for many companies in the software sector have experienced wide fluctuations, which have often not been directly related to an individual company’s operating performance. The trading prices of our ADSs and ordinary shares may fluctuate in response to various factors including, but not limited to: • the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • technological innovation by us or our competitors; • quarterly variations in our results of operations; • changes in revenue and revenue growth rates on a consolidated basis or for specific geographic areas, business units, products or product categories; • speculation in the press or financial community; • general market conditions specific to particular industries; • general and country specific economic or political conditions (particularly wars, terrorist attacks, etc.); and • proposed and completed acquisitions or other significant transactions by us or our competitors. 19 Table of Contents Many of these factors are beyond our control. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to shareholder lawsuits including securities class action litigation. Any such lawsuits against us, with or without merit, could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management’s attention and resources. Project Risks Customer implementation and installation of our products involves significant resources and is subject to significant risks. Implementation of SAP software is a process that often involves a significant commitment of resources by our customers and is subject to a number of significant risks over which we have little or no control. Some of our customers have incurred significant third-party consulting costs and experienced protracted implementation times in connection with the purchase and installation of SAP software products. We believe that these costs and delays were due in many cases to the fact that, in connection with the implementation of the SAP software products, these customers conducted extensive business re-engineering projects involving complex changes relating to business processes within the customers’ own organizations. However, criticisms regarding these additional costs and protracted implementation times have been directed at us, and there have been, from time to time, shortages of our trained consultants available to assist customers in the implementation of our products. In addition, the success of new SAP software products introduced by us may be adversely impacted by the perceived or actual time and cost to implement the SAP software products. We cannot provide assurances that protracted installation times or criticisms of us will not continue, that shortages of our trained consultants will not occur, or that our costs to perform installation projects will not exceed the fees we receive when fixed fees are charged by us. Product Risks Undetected errors, shortcomings in our security features or delays in new products and product enhancements may result in increased costs to us and delayed demand for our products. To achieve customer acceptance, our new products and product enhancements can require long development and testing periods, which may result in delays in scheduled introduction. Generally, first releases are licensed to a controlled group of customers after a validation process. Such new products and product enhancements may contain a number of undetected errors or “bugs” when they are first released. As a result, in the first year following the introduction of certain releases, we work with our early customers to correct such errors. There can be no assurance, however, that all such errors can be corrected to the customer’s satisfaction, with the result that certain customers may bring claims for cash refunds, damages, replacement software or other concessions. The risks of errors and their adverse consequences may increase as we seek to introduce simultaneously a variety of new software products. Significant undetected errors or delays in introducing new products or product enhancements may affect market acceptance of SAP software products, and any such events could have a material adverse effect on SAP’s financial condition, cash flow, results of operations and reputation. The use of SAP software products by customers in business-critical applications and processes and the relative complexity of some of our software products create the risk that customers or other third parties may pursue warranty, performance or other claims against us in the event of actual or alleged failures of SAP software products, the provision of services or application hosting. We have in the past been, and may in the future continue to be, subject to such warranty, performance or other similar claims. In addition, certain of our Internet browser-enabled products include security features that are intended to protect the privacy and integrity of customer data. Despite these security features, our products may be vulnerable to break-ins and similar problems caused by Internet users, such as hackers bypassing firewalls and 20 Table of Contents misappropriating confidential information. Such break-ins or other disruptions could jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through the computer systems of our customers. Addressing problems and claims associated with such actual or alleged failures could be costly and have a material impact on our operations. Although our agreements generally contain provisions designed to limit our exposure as a result of actual or alleged failures of SAP software products or the provision of services, such provisions may not cover every eventuality or be effective under applicable law. Any claim, regardless of its merits, could entail substantial expense and require the devotion of significant time and attention by key management personnel. The accompanying publicity of any claim, regardless of its merits, could adversely affect the demand for our software. If we are unable to keep up with rapid technological changes, we may not be able to compete effectively. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to: • continue to enhance and expand our existing products and services; • provide best-in-class business solutions and services; and • develop and introduce new products and provide new services that satisfy increasingly sophisticated customer requirements, that keep pace with technological developments and that are accepted in the market. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in anticipating and developing product enhancements or new solutions and services to adequately address changing technologies and customer requirements or that we will be able to generate enough revenues to offset the significant research and development costs we incur in bringing these products and services to the market. We may fail to anticipate and develop technological improvements, to adapt our products to technological change, changing country-specific regulatory requirements, emerging industry standards and changing customer requirements or to produce high-quality products, enhancements and releases in a timely and cost-effective manner in order to compete with applications and other technologies offered by our competitors. We depend on technology licensed to us by third parties, and the loss of this technology could delay implementation of our products or force us to pay higher license fees. We license numerous third-party technologies that we incorporate into our existing products, on which, in the aggregate, we may be substantially dependent. There can be no assurance that the licenses for such third-party technologies will not be terminated or that we will be able to license third-party software for future products. In addition, we may be unable to renegotiate acceptable third-party license terms to reflect changes in our pricing models. While we do not believe that one individual technology we license is material to our business, changes in or the loss of third-party licenses could lead to a material increase in the costs of licensing or to SAP software products becoming inoperable or their performance being materially reduced, with the result that we may need to incur additional development or licensing costs to ensure continued performance of our products. Our SAP NetWeaver platform strategy may not succeed or may make certain of our products less desirable. Since the introduction of SAP NetWeaver, we have been executing on our application platform vision. While we remain an enterprise application provider, the objectives of our platform strategy are to decrease the cost of integration, enable process flexibility and innovation, and help build the so-called ecosystem of partners. 21 Table of Contents With solutions built on the SAP NetWeaver platform, we are targeting to enhance our position in the enterprise software industry by extending core applications. To promote a broad adoption of the SAP NetWeaver platform, we are working with certified third-party independent software vendors (ISVs) using SAP NetWeaver as a basis to develop and offer their own certified solutions. To the extent that we cannot attract a sufficient number of capable ISVs delivering high-quality solutions based on the platform, the desired market penetration of SAP NetWeaver may not be achieved. Any ISV-developed solutions with significant errors may reflect negatively on our reputation and thus indirectly impede our own business operations. In addition, as with any open platform design, the greater flexibility provided to customers to use data generated by non-SAP software may reduce customer demand to elect and use certain of our software products. The failure to receive acceptance from customers of the SAP NetWeaver platform, development by competitors of superior technology or significant errors in the solution could have a material adverse impact on our revenues, earnings and results of operations. See Item 4. “Information about SAP — Description of the Business — Evolution of SAP Solutions” for a more detailed description of SAP NetWeaver. Other Operational Risks If we acquire other companies, we may not be able to integrate their operations effectively and, if we enter into strategic alliances, we may not work successfully with our alliance partners. In order to complement or expand our business, we have made and expect to continue to make acquisitions of additional businesses, products and technologies, and have entered into, and expect to continue to enter into, a variety of alliance arrangements. Our current strategy for growth includes, but is not limited to, the acquisition of companies with the aim of strengthening our geographic reach, broadening our offerings in particular industries, or complementing our technology portfolio. Our acquisitions of Business Objects in January 2008 and OutlookSoft Inc. in 2007 are examples of such endeavors. Management’s negotiation of potential acquisitions or alliances, and management’s integration of acquired businesses, products or technologies could divert its time and resources. In addition, risks commonly encountered in such transactions include: • inability to successfully integrate the acquired business, including integrating different business and licensing models; • inability to integrate the acquired technologies or products with our current products and technologies; • potential disruption of our ongoing business; • inability to retain key technical and managerial personnel of the acquired business; • dilution of existing equity holders caused by capital stock issuances to the stockholders of acquired companies; • assumption of unknown material liabilities of acquired companies; • incurrence of debt or significant cash expenditure; • difficulty in implementing or maintaining controls, procedures and policies; • potential adverse impact on our relationships with partner companies or third-party providers of technology or products; • impairment of relationships with employees and customers; • regulatory constraints; and 22 Table of Contents • problems with product quality, product architecture, legal contingencies, product development issues or other significant risks that may not be detected through the due diligence process. In addition, acquisitions of additional businesses may require an immediate charge to income for any in-process research and development costs of companies being acquired and amortization costs related to certain tangible and intangible assets that are acquired. Ultimately, certain acquired businesses may not perform as anticipated, resulting in charges for the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets. Such write-offs and amortization charges may have a significant negative impact on operating margins and net income in the quarter in which the business combination is completed and subsequent periods. In addition, we have entered and expect to continue to enter into alliance arrangements for a variety of purposes including the development of new products and services. There can be no assurance that any such products or services will be successfully developed or that we will not incur significant unanticipated liabilities in connection with such arrangements. We may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with any such transactions and may therefore not be able to receive the intended benefits of those acquisitions or alliances. We may incur losses in connection with venture capital investments. We have acquired and expect to continue to acquire equity interests in or make advances to technology-related companies, many of which currently generate net losses and may require additional funding from their investors. It is possible that changes in market conditions, the performance of companies in which we hold investments or to which we have made advances or other factors may negatively impact our results of operations and financial position or our ability to recognize gains from the sale of equity securities. Additionally, under German tax laws capital losses or write-downs of equity securities are not tax deductible, which may negatively impact our effective tax rate, cash flows and net income going forward. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Critical Accounting Policies — Impairment Assessments.” We may not be able to adequately obtain, enforce, or protect intellectual property rights. We seek to protect our proprietary rights through a combination of applicable trade secret, copyright, patent and trademark laws, license and non-disclosure agreements and technical measures. All of these measures afford only limited protection and may be challenged, invalidated, held unenforceable, or otherwise circumvented. Some proprietary rights may be vulnerable to disclosure or misappropriation by employees, partners, or other third parties. Despite our efforts, there can be no assurance that these protections will be adequate to prevent third parties from obtaining, using, or selling what we regard as our proprietary information without authorization. There can also be no assurance that third parties will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. Also, it may be possible for third parties to reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to protect our proprietary rights against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which could adversely affect our competitive position and result in reduced sales. Any legal action we bring to enforce our proprietary rights could be costly, distract management from day-to-day operations, and lead to claims against us, which could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, such enforcement actions could involve a partner or vendor and adversely affect our ability, and the ability of our customers, to access that partner or vendor’s products. In addition, the laws and courts of certain countries may not offer effective means to enforce our intellectual property rights. Third parties may claim we infringe their intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance that, in the future, proprietary rights of third parties will not (a) preclude us from utilizing certain technologies in our products, (b) require us to pay damages to third parties, partners, or customers, or (c) enter into royalty and licensing arrangements on terms that are not favorable to us. Third parties have claimed and may claim in the future that we have infringed their intellectual property rights. Our 23 Table of Contents software products have been, and we believe will increasingly be, subject to such claims as the number of products in our industry segment grows, as we expand our products into new industry segments and as the functionality of products overlap. Any claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays, subject our products to an injunction, require a complete or partial re-design of the relevant product, result in delays by customers in making spending decisions or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. Additionally, the use of open-source software has become more prevalent in the development of software solutions in the software industry. Accordingly, we are selectively embedding in our software certain third-party open-source software components, which include software code subject to their respective open-source licenses that may require that the code be freely transferable. There can be no assurance that, in the future, a third party will not assert that our products or third-party software we deploy must be made publicly available under the terms of an open-source license, resulting in the loss of our proprietary advantage in the affected product. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to avoid negative impacts on our financial position or results of operations resulting from the settlement of claims. We maintain extensive insurance coverage for protection against many risks of liability. The extent of insurance coverage is regularly reviewed and is modified if we deem it necessary. Our goal of insurance coverage is to ensure that the financial effects, to the extent practicable at reasonable cost, resulting from risk occurrences are excluded or limited. Despite these measures, certain categories of risks are not currently insurable at reasonable cost. Even where we obtain insurance, our coverage is subject to exclusions that may limit or prevent our ability to recover under those policies. Further, there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain desired coverage at reasonable rates, or that such coverage will be available to us at all. Any failure to obtain or recover under insurance policies may result in a significant adverse impact on our financial position or results of operations. We are subject to claims and lawsuits against us that may result in adverse outcomes. We are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits. Adverse outcomes in some or all of the claims pending against us may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. While management currently believes that resolving all of these matters, individually or in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse impact on our financial position or results of operations, litigation and other claims are by their nature subject to uncertainties, and management’s view of these matters may change in the future. Actual outcomes of litigation and other claims may differ from the judgments made by management in prior periods, which could result in a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. See Note 24 to our consolidated financial statements in “Item 18. Financial Statements.” 