Risk factors, as outlined below, provide additional information related to risks associated with competition in the mortgage banking industry. Employees As of March 31, 2008, we had a total of 137 full-time and part-time employees compared to 827 employees at December 31, 2007. Management believes that relations with its employees are good. We are not a party to any collective bargaining agreements. Revisions in Policies and Strategies Our board of directors has approved our investment and operating policies and strategies. Our board of directors has delegated asset/liability management to the Asset/Liability Committee, or "ALCO," which reports to the board of directors at least quarterly. See a further discussion of ALCO in Item 7. "Management's Discussion of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Item 7A. "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk." Any of our policies, strategies and activities may be modified or waived by our board of directors without stockholder consent. Developments in the market, which affect the policies and strategies mentioned herein or which change our assessment of the market, may and has caused our board of directors to revise our policies and financing strategies. As previously mentioned the Company has had to make strategic adjustments to adapt to the current market conditions. These adjustments include discontinuing the majority of the Company's operations, the reduction of personnel and the elimination of facilities. The Company continues to evaluate strategic alternatives that will be in the best interest of the Company's stakeholders. 15 ITEM 1.A. RISK FACTORS Some of the following risk factors relate to a discussion of our assets. For additional information on our asset categories refer to Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," as well as the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. Risks Related To Our Businesses If we are unable to generate sufficient liquidity we may be unable to conduct our operations as planned. If we cannot generate sufficient liquidity, we may be unable to grow our operations, grow our asset base, maintain our current interest rate risk management policies and pay dividends. We have traditionally derived our liquidity from the following primary sources: •financing facilities provided to us by others to acquire or originate mortgage assets; •whole loan sales and securitizations of acquired or originated mortgages; •our issuance of equity and debt securities; •excess cash flow from our long-term mortgage portfolio; and •earnings from operations. We cannot assure you that any of these alternatives will be available to us, or if available, that we will be able to negotiate favorable terms. Currently, the Company derives substantially all of its liquidity from the excess cash flows from the long-term mortgage portfolio. During 2007, almost all of our finance facilities (except for two facilities) were satisfied or expired, we have been unable to sell many loans in the secondary market, and we did not raise any capital through the issuance of new securities. We have negative shareholders' equity, which could adversely affect our financial condition and otherwise adversely impact our business and growth prospects. As of December 31, 2007, we had a shareholders' deficit of $1.1 billion, which means our total liabilities exceed our total assets. The existence of a shareholders' deficit may affect our ability to continue to pay scheduled distributions on our preferred stock, limit our ability to obtain future debt or equity financing, and cause regulatory issues as it could effect our state mortgage licenses. If we are unable to obtain financing in the future, it could have a negative effect on our operations and our liquidity. Our ability to generate cash flows from operations and to make scheduled distributions on our outstanding preferred stock and debt will depend on our future financial performance and particularly our ability to realize the value of our investment portfolio. Our future performance will be affected by a range of economic, competitive, legislative, operating and other business factors, many of which we cannot control, such as general economic and financial conditions in our industry or the economy at large. A significant reduction in operating cash flows resulting from further deterioration in the mortgage industry, changes in economic conditions, or other events could increase the need for additional or alternative sources of liquidity and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects and our ability to satisfy our obligations. If we are unable to satisfy our obligations, we will be forced to adopt an alternative strategy that may include actions such as, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing indebtedness or seeking equity capital. We cannot assure you that any of these alternative strategies could be effected on satisfactory terms, if at all, or that they would yield sufficient funds for continuing operations. Current and anticipated deterioration in the housing market may continue to adversely effect our results of operations by resulting in lower loan prices and increased loss severities During the second half of 2007, the mortgage industry and the residential housing market continued to deteriorate as home prices declined. The difficulty that arose as a result of this deterioration has spread across 16 various mortgage sectors, including the market in which we operate. A continued decline, or a lack of increase in real estate values, may result in additional increases in delinquencies and losses on our mortgage inventory both held for sale and held for investment. Deterioration and decline in the housing industry also adversely affected sales in the secondary mortgage market as investors had, and may continue to have, concerns about mortgage payment defaults thereby adversely decreasing the price in the secondary market of loans that we hold. Furthermore, changes in market conditions have caused us to re-evaluate our strategy regarding certain assets that have had, and may continue to result in, additional valuation adjustments relating to our loan portfolio and real estate owned. If market conditions continue to deteriorate, we may need to continue to reassess the market value of loans held for sale, the loss severities of loans in default and the net realizable value of our real estate owned, which may result in additional write-offs in the future, and future margin calls. We have received a significant amount of margin calls from our lenders and may continue to receive margin calls due to the current market environment. Although we intend to satisfy these margin calls, we cannot make any assurances we will satisfy margin calls received in the future. Developments in the residential mortgage market have, and may continue to adversely affect our business operations and the market value of our assets. The residential mortgage market has encountered difficulties which have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect the performance or market value of our assets. Delinquencies and losses with respect to residential mortgage loans generally have increased and may continue to increase. A continued decline or a lack of increase in those values may result in additional increases in delinquencies and losses on residential mortgage loans generally, especially with respect to second homes and investor properties, and with respect to any residential mortgage loans where the aggregate loan amounts (including any subordinate loans) are close to or greater than the related property values. Another factor that may have contributed to, and may in the future result in, higher delinquency rates is the increase in monthly payments on adjustable rate mortgage loans. Any increase in prevailing market interest rates may result in increased payments for borrowers who have adjustable rate mortgage loans. Moreover, with respect to hybrid mortgage loans after their initial fixed rate period, and with respect to mortgage loans with a negative amortization feature which reach their negative amortization cap, borrowers may experience a substantial increase in their monthly payments even without an increase in prevailing market interest rates. Furthermore, in connection with the deterioration in the residential mortgage market, several government agencies have established task forces to review the mortgage lending industry. In 2008, in his testimony before the U.S. Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs, the Chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission stated that the SEC has established an agency-wide task force to look at the accounting and disclosure by mortgage companies, including securitizations of mortgage loans. During 2008, pursuant to informal requests from the SEC, we have provided certain information to, and answered questions from, the SEC about our business operations and related accounting policies and methodology. Any actions by governmental agencies that would limit our current and future operations may have an adverse affect on our ability to operate our business. These general market conditions have continued to affect our business operations and the performance of our mortgage loans. We have operated under waivers provided by lenders with respect to certain covenants on our credit facilities. A failure to obtain such waivers can result in the lender's ability to accelerate repayment. Our reverse repurchase agreement and warehouse facility contain numerous representations, warranties and covenants, including requirements to maintain a certain minimum net worth, to maintain minimum equity ratios, to maintain our REIT status, to maintain certain profitability levels and other customary debt covenants. Events of default under these facilities can constitute a material breach of representations and warranties and as such allows the lenders to pursue certain remedies which may constitute a cross default under other agreements. Such acts may cause us to lose the ability to access these financing facilities or to lose the right to a timely liquidation of any assets on such facilities. We have received a waiver under our warehouse facility, but we are in default under our reverse repurchase facility and we are in discussions with the lender. There can be no assurance that we can continue to obtain waivers and as such the lenders will have the right to accelerate our repayment obligations which may have an adverse impact on our ability to be profitable and to maintain liquidity. 17 Current conditions in the secondary market could materially impact our finances, earnings and our business operations As a result of the unprecedented uncertainty and disruption in the capital markets and secondary mortgage markets we are making changes in our business strategies and operations. The reduced liquidity and investor demand for mortgage loans and mortgage backed securities, and the increased yield requirements for such instruments, may continue or get worse in the future. The current disruption in that market caused by, among other things, an increased default rate on residential mortgage loans, an increase in the number of ratings downgrades with respect to bonds issued in connection with securitization of loans, the lack of liquidity in the bond market and the financial condition of many companies that typically participate in this market have negatively affected our ability to sell our loans on terms and conditions that will be profitable to us at all. Recent increased delinquencies and losses with respect to residential mortgage loans, may cause us to recognize additional losses, which would further adversely affect our operating results, liquidity, financial condition, business prospects and ability to continue as a going concern. The residential mortgage market has continued to encounter difficulties which have adversely affected our performance. During the past year, delinquencies and losses with respect to residential mortgage loans generally increased and may continue to increase. For the year ended December 31, 2007, loans that we own that were 60 or more days delinquent consisted of 14.6% of the total mortgage loans. In addition, residential property values in many states declined or remained stable, after extended periods during which those values appreciated. A sustained decline or a lack of increase in those values may result in additional increases in delinquencies and losses on residential mortgage loans generally, especially with respect to any residential mortgage loans where the aggregate loan amounts (including any subordinate loans) are close to or greater than the related property values. Another factor that may have contributed to, and may in the future result in, higher delinquency rates is the increase in monthly payments on adjustable rate mortgage loans. Any increase in prevailing market interest rates may result in increased payments for borrowers who have adjustable rate mortgage loans. Moreover, with respect to option ARM mortgage loans with a negative amortization feature which reach their negative amortization cap, borrowers may experience a substantial increase in their monthly payment even without an increase in prevailing market interest rates. Compounding this issue, the current lack of appreciation in residential property values, increased interest rates and the adoption of tighter underwriting standards throughout the mortgage loan industry may adversely affect the ability of borrowers to refinance these loans and default, particularly borrowers facing a rest of the monthly payment to a higher amount. To the extent that delinquencies or losses continue to increase for these or other reasons, the value of our mortgage securities, and the remaining mortgage loans held for sale will be further reduced, which will adversely affect our operating results, liquidity, cash flow, financial condition, business prospects and ability to continue as a going concern. Any significant margin calls under our financing facilities would adversely affect our liquidity and may adversely affect our financial results. Our financing facilities contain numerous representations, warranties and covenants, including requirements to maintain a certain minimum net worth, to maintain minimum equity ratios, to maintain our REIT status, and other customary debt covenants. Events of default under these facilities include material breaches of representations and warranties, failure to comply with covenants, material adverse effects upon or changes in our business, assets, or financial condition, and other customary matters. Events of default under certain of our facilities also include termination of our status as servicer with respect to certain securitized loan pools and failure to maintain profitability over consecutive quarters. The Company has consistently been in breach of these covenants, which may require an acceleration of the debt at the discretion of the lender. Additionally, as the loans collateralizing the warehouse lines reduce in value the Company may be required to provide additional cash to the lender, and the inability of the Company to provide the additional funds could accelerate the debt obligations. 18 The New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") has notified us that we are not in compliance with its continued listing criteria. If we are delisted by the NYSE, the price and liquidity of our common stock and Preferred Stock will be negatively affected. On November 28, 2007, we received notice from NYSE Regulation, Inc. stating that we are not in compliance with the NYSE's continued listing standard related to maintaining a consecutive thirty day average closing stock price of over $1.00 per common share. Under NYSE rules, we have six months to bring our share price and average price back above $1.00, during which time our common stock and preferred stock will continue to be listed and traded on the NYSE, subject to ongoing reassessment by NYSE Regulation. If the share price and average price are not above $1.00 at the expiration of the six-month period, then the NYSE will commence suspension and delisting procedures. In addition, even if such minimum price is achieved and maintained, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to meet the NYSE's other qualitative or quantitative listing standards for continued listing. The NYSE has informed us that it will continue to monitor share price levels and that it reserves the right to take more immediate listing action in the event that the stock trades at levels that are viewed as "abnormally low" on a sustained basis or based on other qualitative factors. On April 1, 2008 we received notification from the NYSE that the failure to timely file annual and interim reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission may subject us to suspension and delisting procedures. We cannot assure you that the NYSE will maintain our listing in the future. In the event that our common stock is delisted by the NYSE, or if it becomes apparent to us that we will be unable to meet the NYSE's continued listing criteria in the foreseeable future, we may seek to have our stock listed or quoted on another national securities exchange or quotation system. However, we cannot assure you that, if our common stock is listed or quoted on such other exchange or system, the market for our common stock will be as liquid as it has been on the NYSE. As a result, if we are delisted by the NYSE or transfer our listing to another exchange or quotation system, the market price for our common stock may become more volatile than it has been historically. Representations and warranties made by us in our loan sales and securitizations may subject us to liability. In connection with our loan sales to third parties and our prior securitizations, we transfer mortgages acquired and originated by us to the third parties or into a trust in exchange for cash and, in the case of a securitized mortgage, residual certificates issued by the trust. The trustee, purchaser, bondholder, or other entities involved in the issuance of the seurities (which may include bond insurers) may have recourse to us with respect to the breach of the representations, and warranties made by us at the time such mortgages are transferred or when the securities are sold. While we may have recourse to our customers for any such breaches, there can be no assurance of our customers' abilities to honor their respective obligations. Also, we previously engaged in bulk whole loan sales pursuant to agreements that generally provide for recourse by the purchaser against us in the event of a breach of one of our representations or warranties, any fraud or misrepresentation during the mortgage origination process, or upon early default on such mortgage. We attempt to limit the potential remedies of such purchasers to the potential remedies we receive from the customers from whom we acquired or originated the mortgages. However, in some cases, the remedies available to a purchaser of mortgages from us may be broader or extend longer than those available to us against the sellers of the mortgages and should a purchaser enforce its remedies against us, we are not always able to enforce whatever remedies we have against our customers. Furthermore, if we discover, prior to the sale or transfer of a loan, that there is any fraud or misrepresentation with respect to the mortgage and the originator fails to repurchase the mortgage, then we may not be able to sell the mortgage or we may have to sell the mortgage at a discount. In the ordinary course of our business, we may be subject to claims made against us by borrowers, purchasers of our loans, or bondholders, insurers, trustees or other entities involved in the issuance of the securities in our securitizations arising from, among other things, losses that are claimed to have been incurred as a result of alleged breaches of fiduciary obligations, misrepresentations, errors and omissions of our employees, officers and agents (including appraisers), incomplete documentation and our failure to comply with various laws and regulations applicable to our business. Any claims asserted against us may result in legal expenses or liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. 19 If we fail to maintain effective systems of internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, which could cause current and potential shareholders to lose confidence in our financial reporting, adversely affect the trading price of our securities or harm our operating results. Effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company. Any failure to develop or maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures could harm our reputation or operating results, or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. We cannot be certain that our efforts to improve or maintain our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures will be successful or that we will be able to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to develop or maintain effective controls or difficulties encountered in their implementation or other effective improvement of our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures could harm our operating results, or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we are unable to adequately establish or maintain our internal control over financial reporting, our external auditors will not be able to issue an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In the past, we have reported, and may discover in the future, material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Due to the reported material weakness in the assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2007 and our auditors issued an adverse opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. During 2007, as the market for our industry continued to deteriorate we reevaluated the need to maintain an internal control environment consistent with previous periods. This evaluation led to the reduction and/or change in certain controls that are not deemed to be applicable to the current business process and reporting. We are also in the process of reevaluating the need for information technology systems that we have used in the past to conduct business and report results. Even with the reduced number of internal controls we have experienced some deficiencies in our internal controls environment. In addition, with less staff to maintain the information technology systems our risks with maintaining an adequate control IT environment has increased. Accordingly, the Company's management has identified a material weakness in the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting related to a shortage of resources in the accounting department required to close its books and records effectively at each reporting date, obtain the necessary information from operational departments to complete the work necessary to file its financial reports timely and failure to timely identify and remediate accounting errors. Ineffective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities or affect our ability to access the capital markets and could result in regulatory proceedings against us by, among others, the SEC. In addition, a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting, which may lead to deficiencies in the preparation of financial statements, could lead to litigation claims against us. The defense of any such claims may cause the diversion of management's attention and resources, and we may be required to pay damages if any such claims or proceedings are not resolved in our favor. Any litigation, even if resolved in our favor, could cause us to incur significant legal and other expenses or cause delays in our public reporting. Such events could harm our business, affect our ability to raise capital and adversely affect the trading price of our securities. We face risks related to our recent accounting restatements. In 2004, we reported a restatement to previously issued financial statements. More recently, in February 2007, we reported that we had discovered accounting errors in previously reported Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Earnings. These errors related to the presentation of deferred charge as a non-interest expense amount compared to the restated presentation as a component of income tax expense. We also reported restated amounts in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows to eliminate certain non-cash items related to intercompany transactions and the redesignation of loans from held-for-sale to held-for-investment. The restatement of our financial statements could lead to litigation claims and/or regulatory proceedings against us. The defense of any such claims or proceedings may cause the diversion of management's attention and resources, and we may be required to pay damages if any such claims or proceedings are not 20 resolved in our favor. Any litigation or regulatory proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could cause us to incur significant legal and other expenses. We also may have difficulty raising equity capital or obtaining other financing, such as lines of credit or otherwise. We may not be able to effectuate our current operating strategy. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could harm our business and reputation and cause the price of our securities to decline. Our use of second mortgages exposes us to greater credit risks. Our security interest in the property securing second mortgages is subordinated to the interest of the first mortgage holder and typically the second mortgages have a higher combined LTV ratio than do our first mortgages. If the borrower experiences difficulties in making senior lien payments or if the value of the property is equal to or less than the amount needed to repay the borrower's obligation to the first mortgage holder upon foreclosure, our second mortgage loan may not be repaid. Also, our senior security interests may be affected if there are junior liens resulting in higher CLTV loans which borrowers have no perceived equity and could result in our senior liens defaulting. Increased levels of early prepayments of mortgages may accelerate our amortization expenses and decrease our net interest income and cash flows. Mortgage prepayments generally increase on our ARMs when fixed mortgage interest rates fall below the then-current interest rates on outstanding ARMs or fully indexed ARMs. Prepayments on mortgages are also affected by the terms and credit grades of the mortgages, their interest rate reset date, conditions in the financial markets, housing appreciation and general economic conditions. If we acquire mortgages at a premium and they are subsequently prepaid, we must expense the unamortized premium at the time of the prepayment. We could possibly lose the opportunity to earn interest at a higher rate over the expected life of the mortgage. Also, if prepayments on mortgages increase when interest rates are declining, our net interest income may decrease. If prepayment rates differ from our projections, we may experience a change in net earnings due to a change in the ratio of derivatives to the related mortgages. This may result in a reduction of cash flows from our mortgage loans net of financing costs as we have a higher percentage of derivative costs related to these mortgages than originally projected. We generally acquired mortgages on a servicing released basis, meaning we acquired both the mortgages and the rights to service them. This strategy required us to pay a higher purchase price or premium for the mortgages. If the mortgages that we acquired at a premium prepay faster than originally projected GAAP requires us to write down the remaining capitalized premium amounts at a faster speed than was originally projected, which would decrease our current net interest income. Recent decreases to interest rates could reduce our future cash flows. As a result of the recent cuts to the federal funds rate by the federal reserve, the rate charged by other lenders on mortgages could decrease, causing higher quality borrowers' to refinance, leaving the Company with a higher percentage of delinquent borrowers, and reduced cash flows from the mortgage portfolio. We may experience reduced net earnings or losses if our liabilities re-price at different rates than our assets. Our principal source of revenue is net interest income or net interest spread from our long-term mortgage portfolio, which is the difference between the interest we earn on our interest earning assets and the interest we pay on our interest bearing liabilities. The rates we pay on our borrowings are independent of the rates we earn on our assets and may be subject to more frequent periodic rate adjustments. Therefore, we could experience a decrease in net earnings or a loss because the interest rates on our borrowings could increase faster than the interest rates on our assets, if the increased borrowing costs are not offset by reduced cash payments on derivatives recorded in other non-interest income. If our net interest spread becomes negative, we will be paying more interest on our borrowings than we will be earning on our assets and we will be exposed to a risk of loss. Additionally, the rates paid on our borrowings and the rates received on our assets may be based upon different indices. Our long-term mortgage portfolio includes mortgages that are one-, three- and six-month LIBOR and one-year LIBOR hybrid ARMs. These are mortgages with fixed interest rates for an initial period of time, after 21 which they begin bearing interest based upon short-term interest rate indices and adjust periodically. We generally funded mortgages with adjustable interest rate borrowings having interest rates that are indexed to short-term interest rates, typically one-month LIBOR, and adjust periodically at various intervals. To the extent that there is an increase in the interest rate index used to determine our adjustable interest rate borrowings and it increases faster than the indices used to determine the rates on our assets (i.e., the increase is not offset by a corresponding increase in the rates at which interest accrues on our assets) or is not offset by various cash payments on interest rate derivatives that we have in place at any given time, our net earnings will decrease or we will have net losses. Additionally, the Company has commenced a policy to modify loans either reducing the interest rates, waiving accrued and unpaid interest or deferring accrued interest to help minimize delinquencies and maximize recoveries on loans. Although we believe in the long run this is beneficial to the Company, the modification of loans to defer the re-pricing will cause the Company to experience a reduction in expected cash flows. ARMs typically have interest rate caps, which limit interest rates charged to the borrower during any given period. Our borrowings are not subject to similar restrictions. As a result, in a period of rapidly increasing interest rates, the interest rates we pay on our borrowings could increase without limitation, while the interest rates we earn on our ARMs would be capped. If this occurs, our net interest spread could be significantly reduced or we could suffer a net interest loss if not offset by a decrease in the cash payments on interest rate derivatives that we have in place at any given time. Our operating results will be affected by the results of our interest rate risk management activities. To mitigate interest rate risks associated with our long-term investment operations, we have entered into transactions designed to limit our exposure to interest rate risks. To mitigate the interest rate risks associated with adjustable rate borrowings, we attempt to match the interest rate sensitivities of our ARMs with the associated financing liabilities. Management determines the nature and quantity of derivative transactions based on various factors, including market conditions. While we believe that we properly manage our interest rate risk on an economic and tax basis, we have elected not to achieve hedge accounting, as established by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB," under the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, or "SFAS 133," for our interest rate risk management activities in our financial statements. The effect of not applying hedge accounting means that our interest rate risk management activities may result in significant volatility in our quarterly net earnings as interest rates go up or down. It is possible that there will be periods during which we will incur losses on derivative transactions that may result in net losses, as was the case in the year ended December 31, 2007 and 2006. In addition, our derivative transactions may not offset the risk of adverse changes in our net interest margins. To maintain REIT status, we must follow certain rules and meet certain tests. In doing so, our flexibility to manage our operations may be reduced. For instance: •Because we must distribute the majority of our earnings to shareholders in the form of dividends, we have a limited amount of capital available to internally fund our growth. •If we make frequent asset sales to persons deemed customers, we could be viewed as a "dealer," and thus subject to 100% prohibited transaction taxes or other entity level taxes on income from such transactions. •Compliance with the REIT income and asset rules may limit the type or extent of hedging that we can undertake. •Our ability to own non-real estate related assets and earn non-real estate related income is limited. Our ability to own equity interests in other entities is limited. If we fail to comply with these limits, we may be forced to liquidate assets on short notice on unfavorable terms to maintain our REIT status. •The need to comply with the REIT gross income and asset tests may cause us to acquire assets that are qualifying real estate assets for purposes of the REIT requirements that are not part of our overall business strategy and might not otherwise be the best investment alternative for us. •Our ability to invest in taxable subsidiaries is limited under the REIT rules. Maintaining compliance with this limit could require us to constrain the growth of our taxable REIT subsidiaies in the future. 22 •Meeting minimum REIT dividend distribution requirements could reduce our liquidity. We may be required to make distributions to stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Earning non-cash REIT taxable income could necessitate our selling assets, incurring debt, or raising new equity in order to fund dividend distributions. •In order to avoid the 100% prohibited transactions tax, which are transactions that are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, but including any mortgage loans, held in inventory primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business, we may choose not to engage in certain sales of loans other than through a taxable REIT subsidiary, and may limit the structures we utilize for our securitization transaction even though such sales or structures might otherwise be beneficial for us. In addition, this prohibition may limit our ability to restructure our investment portfolio of mortgage-related assets from time to time even if we believe that it would be in our best interest to do so. We may be subject to losses on mortgages for which we did not obtain credit enhancements. We did not obtain credit enhancements such as mortgage pool or special hazard insurance for all of our mortgages and investments. Generally, we required mortgage insurance on any first mortgage with an LTV ratio greater than 80 percent. During the time we hold mortgages for investment, we are subject to risks of borrower defaults and bankruptcies and special hazard losses that are not covered by standard hazard insurance. If a borrower defaults on a mortgage that we hold, we bear the risk of loss of principal to the extent there is any deficiency between the value of the related mortgaged property and the amount owing on the mortgage loan and any insurance proceeds available to us through the mortgage insurer. In addition, since defaulted mortgages, which under our financing arrangements are mortgages that are generally 60 to 90 days delinquent in payments, may be considered ineligible collateral under our borrowing arrangements, we could bear the risk of being required to own these mortgages without the use of borrowed funds until they are ultimately liquidated or possibly sold at a loss. Our mortgage loans expose us to greater credit risks and defaults. We were an acquirer and originator of Alt-A mortgages and commercial loans. These are mortgages that generally may not qualify for purchase by government-sponsored agencies such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Our operations may be negatively affected due to our investments in these mortgages. Credit risks associated with these mortgages may be greater than those associated with conforming mortgages. Lower levels of liquidity may cause us to hold loans or other mortgage-related assets supported by these loans that we otherwise would not hold. By doing this, we assume the potential risk of increased delinquency rates and/or credit losses as well as interest rate risk. Additionally, the combination of different underwriting criteria and higher rates of interest leads to greater risk, including higher prepayment rates and higher delinquency rates and /or credit losses. We also have loans that are interest only and option-ARM loans that allow a borrower to pay only the stated interest or less than the stated interest, respectively, attributable to their loan for a set period of time. If there is a decline in real estate values borrowers may default on these types of loans since they have not reduced their principal balances, which, therefore, could exceed the value of their property. In addition, a reduction in property values would also cause an increase in the CLTV or LTV ratio for that loan which could have the effect of reducing the value of the property collateralized by that loan, reducing the borrowers' equity in their homes to a level that would increase the risk of default. Our commercial and multifamily mortgages may expose us to increased lending risks. Our commercial and multifamily mortgages have higher risks than mortgages secured by single family residential real estate because repayment of the mortgages often depends on the successful operations and the income stream of the borrowers. Furthermore, commercial mortgages typically involve larger mortgage balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgages. Loans to non-conforming borrowers may expose us to a higher risk of delinquencies, foreclosures and losses. Our market included borrowers who may have been unable to obtain mortgage financing from conventional mortgage sources. Mortgages made to such borrowers generally entail a higher risk of delinquency and higher losses than mortgages made to borrowers who utilize conventional mortgage sources. Delinquency, foreclosures and losses generally increase during economic slowdowns or recessions. The actual risk of delinquencies, 23 foreclosures and losses on mortgages made to our borrowers are higher under current economic conditions than those in the past. Our borrowings and use of substantial leverage may cause losses. Our use of securitized mortgages may expose our operations to credit losses. Retaining mortgages as collateral for securities exposes our operations to greater credit losses than does the use of other securitization techniques that are treated as sales because, as the equity holder in the security, we are allocated losses from the liquidation of defaulted loans first, prior to any other security holder. Although our liability under a collateralized mortgage obligation is limited to the collateral used to create the collateralized mortgage obligation, we generally are required to make a cash equity investment to fund collateral in excess of the amount of the securities issued in order to obtain the appropriate credit ratings for the securities being sold, and therefore obtain the lowest interest rate available, on the securitized mortgages. If we experience greater credit losses than expected on the pool of loans subject to the securitized mortgage, the value of our equity investment will decrease and we may have to increase the allowance for loan losses on our financial statements. If we default under our financing facilities, we may be forced to liquidate collateral at less than favorable prices. If we default under our financing facilities, our lenders could force us to liquidate the collateral. If the value of the collateral is less than the amount borrowed, we could be required to pay the difference in cash. Furthermore, if we default under one facility, it would generally cause a default under our other facilities. If we were to declare bankruptcy, our reverse repurchase agreements may obtain special treatment and our creditors would then be allowed to liquidate the collateral without any delay. On the other hand, if a lender with whom we have a reverse repurchase agreement declares bankruptcy, we might experience difficulty repurchasing our collateral, or enforcing our claim for damages, and it is possible that our claim could be repudiated and we could be treated as an unsecured creditor. If this occurs, our claims would be subject to significant delay and we may receive substantially less than our actual damages or nothing at all. If we are forced to liquidate, we may have few unpledged assets for distribution to unsecured creditors. We have pledged a substantial portion of our assets to secure the repayment of securitized mortgage borrowings issued in securitizations and our financing facilities. The cash flows we receive from our investments that have not yet been distributed or used to acquire mortgages or other investments may be the only unpledged assets available to our unsecured creditors if we were liquidated. The geographic concentration of our mortgages increases our exposure to risks in those areas. We do not set limitations on the percentage of our long-term mortgage portfolio composed of properties located in any one area (whether by state, zip code or other geographic measure). Concentration in any one area increases our exposure to the economic and natural hazard risks associated with that area. A majority of our mortgage acquisitions and originations, long-term mortgage portfolio and finance receivables are secured by properties in California and, to a lesser extent, Florida. California and Florida have experienced, and may experience in the future, an economic downturn in past years and they have also suffered the effects of certain natural hazards. Furthermore, if borrowers are not insured for natural disasters, which are typically not covered by standard hazard insurance policies, then they may not be able to repair the property or may stop paying their mortgages if the property is damaged. This would cause increased foreclosures and decrease our ability to recover losses on properties affected by such disasters. This would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We are a defendant in purported class action lawsuits and may not prevail in these matters. Class action lawsuits and regulatory actions alleging improper marketing practices, abusive loan terms and fees, disclosure violations, improper yield spread premiums and other matters are risks faced by all mortgage originators, particularly those in the Alt-A and subprime market. We are a defendant in purported class actions pending in different states. Some of the class actions allege generally that the loan originator improperly charged 24 fees in violation of various state lending or consumer protection laws in connection with mortgages that we acquired while others allege that our lending practice was a statutory violation, an unlawful business practice, an unfair business practice or a breach of a contract. Although the suits are not identical, they generally seek unspecified compensatory damages, punitive damages, pre- and post-judgment interest, costs and expenses and rescission of the mortgages, as well as a return of any improperly collected fees. In 2006 and in 2007, several purported class action complaints have been filed against us and our executive officers and certain directors. The complaints, which are brought on behalf of persons who acquired common stock through the open market or through the Company 401K plan, generally allege violations of the federal securities laws due to allegedly false and misleading statements or omissions, related to the Company's financial condition and future prospects. We may incur defense costs and other expenses in connection with the class action lawsuits, and we cannot assure you that the ultimate outcome of these or other actions will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. In addition to the expense and burden incurred in defending this litigation and any damages that we may suffer, our management's efforts and attention may be diverted from the ordinary business operations in order to address these claims. If the final resolution of this litigation is unfavorable to us, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows might be materially adversely affected if our existing insurance coverage is unavailable or inadequate to resolve the matters. We believe we have meritorious defenses to the actions and intend to defend against them vigorously; however, an adverse judgment in any of these matters could have a material adverse effect on us. Our delinquency ratios and our performance may be adversely affected by the performance of parties who service or sub-service our mortgages. We sell or contract with third-parties for the servicing of all mortgages, including those in our securitizations. Our operations are subject to risks associated with inadequate or untimely servicing. Poor performance by a servicer may result in greater than expected delinquencies and losses on our mortgages. A substantial increase in our delinquency or foreclosure rate could adversely affect our ability to access the capital and secondary markets for our financing needs. Also, with respect to mortgages subject to a securitization, greater delinquencies would adversely impact the value of our equity interest, if any, we hold in connection with that securitization. In a securitization, relevant agreements permit us to be terminated as servicer or master servicer under specific conditions described in these agreements. If, as a result of a servicer or sub-servicer's failure to perform adequately, we were terminated as master servicer of a securitization, the value of any master servicing rights held by us would be adversely affected. We are exposed to environmental liabilities, with respect to properties that we take title to upon foreclosure, that could increase our costs of doing business and harm our results of operations. In the course of our activities, we may foreclose and take title to residential properties and become subject to environmental or mold liabilities with respect to those properties. The laws and regulations related to mold or environmental contamination often impose liability without regard to responsibility for the contamination. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with mold or environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. Moreover, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based upon damages and costs resulting from mold or environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant mold or environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be significantly harmed. We are subject to risks of operational failure that are beyond our control. Substantially all of our operations are located in Irvine, California. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage and interruption from fire, flood, telecommunications failure, break-ins, earthquake and similar events. Our operations may also be interrupted by power disruptions, including rolling black-outs implemented in California due to power shortages. We do not have alternative power sources in all of our locations. Furthermore, our security mechanisms may be inadequate to prevent security breaches to our computer systems, including from computer viruses, electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. Such security breaches or operational failures could expose us to liability, impair our operations, result in losses, and harm our reputation. 25 A material difference between the assumptions used in the determination of the value of our residual interests and our actual experience would cause us to write down the value of these securities and could harm our financial position. Investments in residual interest and subordinated securities are much riskier than investments in senior mortgage-backed securities because these subordinated securities bear all credit losses prior to the related senior securities. The risk associated with holding residual interest and subordinated securities is greater than holding the underlying mortgage loans directly due to the concentration of losses attributed to the subordinated securities. The value of residual interests represents the present value of future cash flows expected to be received by us from the excess cash flows created in the securitization transaction. In general, future cash flows are estimated by taking the coupon rate of the loans underlying the transaction less the interest rate paid to the investors, less contractually specified servicing and trustee fees, and after giving effect to estimated prepayments and credit losses. We estimate future cash flows from these securities and value them utilizing assumptions based in part on projected discount rates, delinquency, mortgage loan prepayment speeds and credit losses. It is extremely difficult to validate the assumptions we use in valuing our residual interests. Even if the general accuracy of the valuation model is validated, valuations are highly dependent upon the reasonableness of our assumptions and the predictability of the relationships which drive the results of the model. Such assumptions are complex as we must make judgments about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. If our actual experience differs from our assumptions, we could be required to reduce the value of these securities. Furthermore, if our actual experience differs materially from these assumptions, our cash flow, financial condition, results of operations and business prospects may be harmed, including an adverse affect on the amount of dividend payments that are made on our common stock. Deteriorating mortgage market conditions have had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on our earnings and financial condition. Beginning in the second quarter of 2007, the mortgage industry and the residential housing market were adversely affected as home prices declined and delinquencies increased, particularly in the sub-prime mortgage industry. The difficulty that arose as a result of this has spread across various mortgage sectors, including the market in which we operate. These markets are currently experiencing unprecedented disruptions, which have had, and continue to have, an adverse impact on the Company's earnings and financial condition. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2007, the Company had a net loss of $2.1 billion and estimated taxable loss of $136.0 million. The secondary and securitization mortgage markets have significantly reduced its purchasing of loans, to almost none, making it extremely difficult to sell non-conforming mortgage loans and securities backed by non-conforming mortgage loans to investors, which have led to significant margin calls, reducing the Company's cash position. In addition, because housing prices have declined and lenders tightened underwriting guidelines, making it more difficult to refinance, defaults and credit losses increased; which further exacerbated home price depreciation and credit losses. As a result, nonconforming mortgage loans have not performed up to historical expectations and the fair value of non-conforming mortgage loans has deteriorated. At December 31, 2007, the Company's had REOs with a net relizeable value of $412.2 million and the long-term mortgage portfolio included 14.6% of mortgage loans that were 60 days or more delinquent, including continuing and discontinued operations. These conditions, which increase the cost and reduce the availability of debt, may continue or worsen in the future. As a result of the Company's inability to sell or securitize non-conforming loans, the Company has discontinued funding loans. The Company has discontinued substantially all of its mortgage operations, commercial operations, retail operations and all of its warehouse lending operations. As a further result of the deteriorating market conditions, the Company experienced frequent margin calls, was in default on several repurchase facilities, and either terminated or allowed facilities to lapse leaving the Company with two available finance facilities. The Company can not make any assurances that it will not receive future margin calls, that it will be able to satisfy those margin calls, or that it will be able to obtain any future waivers of non-compliance on those facilities. If overall market conditions continue to deteriorate and result in additional substantial declines in the value of the assets, which we use to collateralize our secured borrowing arrangements, sufficient capital may not be available to support the continued ownership of our investments, requiring certain assets to be sold at a loss. The further deterioration of the mortgage market has had, and may continue to have, a material adverse impact on our earnings and financial condition. 26 Loss of our current executive officers or other key management could significantly harm our business. We depend on the diligence, skill and experience of our senior executives, including our chief executive officer, president and chief operating officer. We believe that our future results will also depend in part upon our attracting and retaining highly skilled and qualified management. We seek to compensate our executive officers, as well as other employees, through competitive salaries, bonuses and other incentive plans, but there can be no assurance that these programs will allow us to retain key management executives or hire new key employees. The loss of our chief executive officer, president, or other senior executive officers and key management could have a material adverse impact on our operations because other officers may not have the experience and expertise to readily replace these individuals. Our prior chief financial officer recently resigned from the Company effective November 30, 2007 and we have appointed an interim Chief Financial Officer. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. Furthermore, in light of our present financial condition, no assurance can be given that we will retain these and other executive officers and key management personnel. To the extent that one or more of our top executives or other key management personnel are no longer employed by us, our operations and business prospects may be adversely affected. The loss of, and changes in, key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our outstanding Preferred Stock have the following risks: Continued payment of dividends on our preferred stock may decrease our cash flow and prevent us from implementing new strategies for the Company. We currently have outstanding 2,000,000 and 4,470,600 shares of 9.375% Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, liquidation preference $25.00 per share ("Series B Preferred Stock") and 9.125% Series C Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, liquidation preference $25.00 per share ("Series C Preferred Stock" and together with the Series B Preferred Stock, the "Preferred Stock") , respectively. The Preferred Stock ranks senior to our common stock with respect to the payment of distributions and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up. The holders of the Series B Preferred Stock and Series C Preferred Stock are entitled to cumulative quarterly dividends equal to 9.375% and 9.125% of the $25.00 liquidation preference (equivalent to $2.34375 and $2.28125 annually per share), respectively. Dividends on the Preferred Stock accrue whether or not current payment of dividends is prohibited, whether or not we have earnings, whether or not there are funds legally available for the payment of such dividends and whether or not such dividends are declared. We may not redeem the Series B Preferred Stock and C Preferred Stock prior to May 28, 2009 and November 23, 2009, respectively, except in limited circumstances to preserve our status as a REIT. The Series B Preferred Stock and Series C Preferred Stock currently receive quarterly dividends of $0.58594 and $0.57031 per share, respectively, and have a minimum liquidation preference of $25.00 per share, or an aggregate of approximately $162.1 million per year. The continued payment and accrual of these dividends may prevent the Company from implementing new strategies in the current market environment, thereby, hindering our growth prospects. The continued accrual and payment of the preferred stock dividends may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and operations. Failure to pay dividends on our preferred stock would allow the preferred stock holders to elect members to our Board of Directors. Our Preferred Stock generally have no voting rights. However, if we do not pay dividends on any outstanding Preferred Stock for six or more quarterly periods (whether or not consecutive), holders of the Preferred Stock voting as a class, will be entitled to elect two additional directors to the Company's board of directors to serve until all unpaid dividends have been paid or declared and set apart for payment, provided that any such directors, if elected, must not cause us to violate the corporate governance requirement of the NYSE that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors. The Preferred Stock has liquidation preference over our common stock holders, which could decrease or eliminate the assets available for distribution. Upon the voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of our affairs, each share of the Preferred Stock will receive, before any payments are made to the holders of our common stock and any other series of our preferred stock that we may issue ranking junior to the Preferred Stock as to liquidation rights, $25.00 27 per share, plus in each case, a premium of $.50 per share up until May 28, 2009, in the case of the Series B Preferred Stock, and November 23, 2009, in the case of the Series C Preferred Stock, and accrued and unpaid dividends whether or not declared. If, upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of our affairs, the cash distributable among holders of Preferred Stock is insufficient to pay in full the liquidation preference of the Preferred Stock as described above, then our remaining assets (or the proceeds thereof) will be distributed among the holders of the Preferred Stock and any such other parity stock and in proportion to the amounts that would be payable on the Preferred Stock if all amounts payable thereon were paid in full. After payment of the full amount of the liquidating distributions, including the applicable premium, if any, to which they are entitled, the holders of the Preferred Stock will have no right or claim to any of our remaining assets. However, to the extent that all assets are used to pay the holders of the Preferred Stock, there may not be any assets available for distribution to the common stock holders upon a liquidation. Regulatory Risks Violation of various federal, state and local laws may result in losses on our loans. To the extent we originate and purchase mortgage loans in the future, applicable state and local laws generally regulate interest rates and other charges, require certain disclosure, and require licensing of the mortgage broker, lender and purchaser. In addition, other state and local laws, public policy and general principles of equity relating to the protection of consumers, unfair and deceptive practices and debt collection practices may apply to the origination, servicing and collection of our loans. Mortgage loans are also subject to federal laws, including: •the Federal Truth-in-Lending Act and Regulation Z promulgated there under, which require certain disclosures to the borrowers regarding the terms of the loans; •the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and Regulation B promulgated there under, which prohibit discrimination on the basis of age, race, color, sex, religion, marital status, national origin, receipt of public assistance or the exercise of any right under the Consumer Credit Protection Act, in the extension of credit; •the Fair Housing Act, which prohibits discrimination in housing on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, familial status, or handicap, in housing-related transactions; •the Fair Credit Reporting Act, which regulates the use and reporting of information related to the borrower's credit experience; •the Fair and Accurate Credit Transaction Act, which regulates credit reporting and use of credit information in making unsolicited offers of credit; •the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, which imposes requirements on all lenders with respect to their collection and use of nonpublic financial information and requires them to maintain the security of that information; •the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, which requires that consumers receive disclosures at various times and outlaws kickbacks that increase the cost of settlement services; •the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, which requires the reporting of public loan data; •the Telephone Consumer Protection Act and the Can Spam Act, which regulate commercial solicitations via telephone, fax, and the Internet; •the Depository Institutions Deregulation and Monetary Control Act of 1980, which preempts certain state usury laws; and •the Alternative Mortgage Transaction Parity Act of 1982, which preempts certain state lending laws which regulate alternative mortgage transactions. Violations of certain provisions of these federal and state laws may limit our ability to collect all or part of the principal of or interest on the loans and in addition could subject us to damages and could result in the mortgagors 28 rescinding the loans whether held by us or subsequent holders of the loans. In addition, such violations could cause us to be in default under our credit and repurchase facilities and could result in the loss of licenses held by us. Similarly, it is possible borrowers may assert that the loan forms we used or acquired, including forms for "interest-only" and "option-ARM" loans for which there is little standardization or uniformity, fail to properly describe the transactions they intended, or that our forms failed to comply with applicable consumer protection statutes or other federal and state laws. This could result in liability for violations of certain provisions of federal and state consumer protection laws and our inability to sell the loans and our obligation to repurchase the loans or indemnify the purchasers. New regulatory laws affecting the mortgage industry may affect our ability to reenter the mortgage markets The regulatory environmenst in which we previously operated, and continue to operate on a limited basis, have an impact on the activities in which we may engage. Changes to the laws, regulations or regulatory policies can affect whether and to what extent we may be able to reenter the mortgage markets and whether it can be done profitably. Some states and local governments and the Federal Government have enacted, or may enact laws, or regulations that restrict or prohibit some provisions in mortgages or some loan programs that we have previously participated in. As such we cannot be sure that in the future we will be able to engage in lending or mortgage activities that were similar to those we engaged or participated in the past and we might be at a competitive disadvantage which would affect our operations. We may be subject to fines or other penalties based upon the conduct of our independent brokers or correspondents. The mortgage brokers and correspondents from which we obtained mortgages have parallel and separate legal obligations to which they are subject. While these laws may not explicitly hold the originating lenders or an acquirer of the loan responsible for the legal violations of mortgage bankers and brokers, increasingly federal and state agencies have sought to impose such liability. Previously, for example, the United States Federal Trade Commission, or "FTC," entered into a settlement agreement with a mortgage lender where the FTC characterized a broker that had placed all of its loan production with a single lender as the "agent" of the lender; the FTC imposed a fine on the lender in part because, as "principal," the lender was legally responsible for the mortgage broker's unfair and deceptive acts and practices. The United States Justice Department, various state attorney generals, and other state officials have sought to hold subprime mortgage lenders responsible for the pricing practices of their mortgage bankers and brokers, alleging that the mortgage lender was directly responsible for the total fees and charges paid by the borrower under the Fair Housing Act even if the lender neither dictated what the mortgage banker could charge nor kept the money for its own account. Accordingly, we may be subject to fines or other penalties based upon the prior conduct of our independent mortgage bankers, brokers or correspondents. Our operations may be adversely affected if we are subject to the Investment Company Act. We intend to conduct our business at all times so as not to become regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. The Investment Company Act exempts entities that are primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate. In order to qualify for this exemption we must maintain at least 55 percent of our assets directly in mortgages, qualifying pass-through certificates and certain other qualifying interests in real estate. Our ownership of certain mortgage assets may be limited by the provisions of the Investment Company Act, should we ever be subject to the Act. If the SEC adopts a contrary interpretation with respect to these securities or otherwise believes we do not satisfy the above exception, we could be required to restructure our activities or sell certain of our assets. To insure that we continue to qualify for the exemption we may be required at times to adopt less efficient methods of financing certain of our mortgage assets and we may be precluded from acquiring certain types of higher-yielding mortgage assets. The net effect of these factors will be to lower our net interest income. If we fail to qualify for exemption from registration as an investment company, our ability to use leverage would be substantially reduced, and we would not be able to conduct our business as described. Our business will be materially and adversely affected if we fail to qualify for this exemption. 29 Regulation AB may create additional liabilities, costs and restrictions for our business. On December 15, 2004, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) approved the final regulations covering the registration, disclosure, communications, and reporting requirements for asset-backed securities ("Regulation AB"), which became effective January 1, 2006. The new rules contain several new disclosure requirements, including requirements to provide historical financial data with respect to either prior securitized pools of the same asset class or prior originations and information with respect to the background, experience and roles of the various transaction parties, including those involved in the origination, sale or servicing of the loans in the securitized pool. Moreover, annual assessments of compliance with enhanced servicing criteria by servicers and attestation reports from an independent registered public accounting firm must be obtained with respect to securitized pools of our mortgage loans. Securitizations. Our failure to provide the information required by Regulation AB could subject us to Securities Act liability either directly or indirectly through the indemnification provisions of the transaction documents related to a securitization of our mortgage loans. Furthermore, any failure to comply with the new reporting requirements for asset-backed securities under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, may result in the loss of eligibility to register our asset-backed securities on Form S-3 which would increase the costs of and limit our access to the public asset-backed securities market. Mortgage Loan Sales. As a result of the implementation of Regulation AB, our loan sale agreements with third parties may require us to provide certain information with respect to ourselves and historical information with respect to the performance of our mortgage loans to such purchasers. Our failure to provide this information with respect to any of our mortgage loan products may result in a breach of a contractual obligation for which we provide an indemnification. In addition, if we are not able to provide such information, the number of potential purchasers of our mortgage loans may be limited or the transaction sizes of sales of our mortgage loans may be limited, each of which may have an adverse effect on the price we receive for our mortgage loans. In the case of both securitizations and loan sales, compliance with Regulation AB will increase our cost of doing business as we are required to develop systems and procedures to ensure that we do not violate any aspect of these new requirements. Risks Related To Our Status as a REIT We may not pay dividends to stockholders. REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code generally require that we annually distribute to our stockholders at least 90 percent of all of our taxable income, exclusive of the application of any tax loss carry forwards that may be used to offset current period taxable income. These provisions restrict our ability to retain earnings and thereby generate capital from our operating activities. We may decide at a future date to terminate our REIT status, which would cause us to be taxed at the corporate levels and cease paying regular dividends. In addition, for any year that we do not generate taxable income, we are not required to declare and pay dividends to maintain our REIT status. For instance, due to losses incurred in 2000, we did not declare any dividends from November 2000 until September 2001 and we have not declared a common stock dividend since March 31, 2007. To date, a portion of our taxable income and cash flow has been attributable to our receipt of dividend distributions from the mortgage operations. The mortgage operations is not a REIT and is not, therefore, subject to the above-described REIT distribution requirements. IFC's board of directors, only comprised of executive officers of the Company, which is not the same as IMH's board of directors, may decide that the mortgage operations should cease making dividend distributions in the future. The IFC board of directors may be changed at the discretion of the board of directors of IMH. This would materially reduce the amount of our taxable income and in turn, would reduce the amount we would be required to distribute as dividends. We may generate taxable income in excess of cash income, which may reduce our liquidity. Our taxable income may substantially exceed our net income as determined based on GAAP because, for example, realized capital losses will be deducted in determining our GAAP net income, but may not be deductible in computing our taxable income. In addition, we may invest in assets that generate taxable income in excess of 30 economic income or in advance of the corresponding cash flow from the assets, referred to as phantom income. Although some types of phantom income are excluded in determining the 90% distribution requirement, we will incur corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax with respect to any phantom income items if we do not distribute those items on an annual basis. As a result of the foregoing, we may generate less cash flow than taxable income in a particular year. In that event, we may be required to use cash reserves, incur debt or liquidate non-cash assets at rates or times that we regard as unfavorable in order to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax in that year. If we fail to maintain our REIT status, we may be subject to taxation as a regular corporation. We believe that we have operated and intend to continue to operate in a manner that enables us to meet the requirements for qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service that we qualify as a REIT. Moreover, no assurance can be given that legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions will not significantly change the tax laws with respect to qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification. Our continued qualification as a REIT will depend on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational and stockholder ownership requirements on a continuing basis. If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates. We also may be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax. Unless we are entitled to relief under specific statutory provisions, we could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four taxable years following the year during which we were disqualified. Therefore, if we lose our REIT status, the funds available for distribution to stockholders would be reduced substantially for each of the years involved. Failure to qualify as a REIT could adversely affect the value of our securities. On October 22, 2004, President Bush signed the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the "2004 Act"), which, among other things, amends the rules applicable to REIT qualification. In particular, the 2004 Act provides that a REIT that fails the quarterly asset tests for one or more quarters will not lose its REIT status as a result of such failure if either (i) such failure is regarded as a de minimis failure under standards set out in the 2004 Act, or (ii) the failure is greater than a de minimis failure but is attributable to reasonable cause and not willful neglect. In the case of a greater than de minimis failure, however, the REIT must pay a tax and must remedy the failure within 6 months of the close of the quarter in which such failure occurred. In addition, the 2004 Act provides relief for failures of other tests imposed as a condition of REIT qualification, as long as such failures are attributable to reasonable cause and not willful neglect. A REIT would be required to pay a penalty of $50,000, however, in the case of each such failure. The above-described changes apply for taxable years of REITs beginning after the date of enactment. Potential characterization of distributions or gain on sale as unrelated business taxable income to tax-exempt investors. If (1) all or a portion of our assets are subject to the rules relating to taxable mortgage pools, (2) we are a "pension-held REIT," (3) a tax-exempt stockholder has incurred debt to purchase or hold our common stock, or (4) the residual REMIC interests we buy generate "excess inclusion income," then a portion of the distributions to and, in the case of a stockholder described in (3), gains realized on the sale of common stock by such tax-exempt stockholder may be subject to Federal income tax as unrelated business taxable income under the Internal Revenue Code. Classification as a taxable mortgage pool could subject us or certain of our stockholders to increased taxation. If we have borrowings with two or more maturities and, (1) those borrowings are secured by mortgages or mortgage-backed securities and, (2) the payments made on the borrowings are related to the payments received on the underlying assets, then the borrowings and the pool of mortgages or mortgage-backed securities to which such borrowings relate may be classified as a taxable mortgage pool under the Internal Revenue Code. If any part of our Company were to be treated as a taxable mortgage pool, then our REIT status would not be impaired, but a portion of the taxable income we recognize may, under regulations to be issued by the Treasury Department, be 31 characterized as "excess inclusion" income and allocated among our stockholders to the extent of and generally in proportion to the distributions we make to each stockholder. Any excess inclusion income would: •not be allowed to be offset by a stockholder's net operating losses; •be subject to a tax as unrelated business income if a stockholder were a tax-exempt stockholder; •be subject to the application of federal income tax withholding at the maximum rate (without reduction for any otherwise applicable income tax treaty) with respect to amounts allocable to foreign stockholders; and •be taxable (at the highest corporate tax rate) to us, rather than to our stockholders, to the extent the excess inclusion income relates to stock held by disqualified organizations (generally, tax-exempt companies not subject to tax on unrelated business income, including governmental organizations). Based on our analysis and advice of our tax counsel, we believe our existing financing arrangements do not create a taxable mortgage pool. We may be subject to possible adverse consequences as a result of limits on ownership of our shares. Our charter limits ownership of our capital stock (both common and preferred stock) by any single stockholder, including a corporation, to 9.5 percent of our outstanding shares (including in value) unless waived by the board of directors. By subjecting entities, such as corporations, to the ownership limitation, our charter is more restrictive than the requirements of the federal tax laws applicable to REITs, and thereby serves the dual purpose of helping us maintain our REIT status and protecting us from an unwanted takeover. Our board of directors may increase the 9.5 percent ownership limit. In addition, to the extent consistent with the REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, our board of directors may, pursuant to our articles of incorporation, waive the 9.5 percent ownership limit for a stockholder or purchaser of our stock. In order to waive the 9.5 percent ownership limit our board of directors must require the stockholder requesting the waiver to provide certain representations to the Company to ensure compliance with the REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. Our charter also prohibits anyone from buying shares if the purchase would result in us losing our REIT status. This could happen if a share transaction results in fewer than 100 persons owning all of our shares or in five or fewer persons, applying certain broad attribution rules of the Internal Revenue Code, owning more than 50 percent (by value) of our shares. If you or anyone else acquires shares in excess of the ownership limit or in violation of the ownership requirements of the Internal Revenue Code for REITs, we: •will consider the transfer to be null and void; •will not reflect the transaction on our books; •may institute legal action to enjoin the transaction; •will not pay dividends or other distributions with respect to those shares; •will not recognize any voting rights for those shares; •may redeem the shares; and •will consider the shares held in trust for the benefit of a charitable beneficiary as designated by us. The trustee shall sell the shares held in trust and the owner of the excess shares will be entitled to the lesser of: (a)the price paid by the owner; (b)if the owner did not purchase the excess shares, the closing price for the shares on the national securities exchange on which IMH is listed on the day of the event causing the shares to be held in trust; or (c)the price received by the trustee from the sale of the shares. 32 Notwithstanding the above, our charter contains a provision which provides that nothing in the charter will preclude the settlement of transactions entered into through the facilities of the NYSE. Limitations on acquisition and change in control ownership limit. Our charter and bylaws, and Maryland corporate law contain a number of provisions that could delay, defer, or prevent a transaction or a change of control of us that might involve a premium price for holders of our capital stock or otherwise be in their best interests by increasing the associated costs and timeframe necessary to make an acquisition, making the process for acquiring a sufficient number of shares of our capital stock to effectuate or accomplish such a change of control longer and more costly. In addition, investors may refrain from attempting to cause a change in control because of the difficulty associated with such a venture because of the limitations. Risks Related To Ownership of Our Securities Our share prices have been and may continue to be volatile. Historically and recently, the market price of our securities has been volatile. The market price of our securities is likely to continue to be highly volatile and could be significantly affected by factors including: •the amount of dividends paid; •availability of liquidity in the securitization market; •loan sale pricing; •termination of financing agreements; •margin calls by warehouse lenders or changes in warehouse lending rates; •unanticipated fluctuations in our operating results; •prepayments on mortgages; •valuations of securitization related assets; •the effect of the restatement of our financial condition and results of operations; •mark to market adjustments related to the fair value of derivatives; •cost of funds; and •general market and mortgage industry conditions. During 2007, our common stock reached an intra-day high sales price of $9.11 on January 12, and an intra-day low sales price of $0.20 on December 26. As of March 31, 2008, our stock price closed at $1.27 per share. In addition, significant price and volume fluctuations in the stock market have particularly affected the market prices for the securities of mortgage companies such as ours. Furthermore, general conditions in the mortgage industry may adversely affect the market price of our securities. These broad market fluctuations have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect the market price of our securities. If our results of operations fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in a future quarter, the market price of our securities could also be materially adversely affected and we may experience difficulty in raising capital. Sales of additional common or preferred stock may adversely affect its market price. To sustain our growth strategy we intend to raise capital through the sale of equity. The sale or the proposed sale of substantial amounts of our common stock or preferred stock in the public market could materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock or other outstanding securities. We do not know the actual or perceived effect of these offerings, the timing of these offerings, the potential dilution of the book value or earnings per share of our securities then outstanding and the effect on the market price of our securities then outstanding. We also have shares reserved for future issuance under our 2001 Stock Plan. The sale of a large amount of shares or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price for our common stock or other outstanding securities. 33 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 