Item 1A. Risk Factors Factors That May Affect Future Results Many factors outside of our control could impact future financial results. While not an exhaustive list, the following important factors could cause our actual results for 2007 and beyond to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements we have made. International Business Risks We have manufacturing facilities in 6 countries spread across 4 hemispheres and we market and sell products in over 90 countries, many of which are third-world markets. Both our manufacturing operations and our sales, depending on their location, are subject to 1 or more of the following international business risks, including unsettled political and economic conditions; expropriation; import and export tariffs; regulatory controls and restrictions; monetary exchange controls; inflationary economies; changes in currency value; changes in business and income tax regulations and risks related to restrictions on repatriation of earnings or proceeds from liquidated assets of foreign subsidiaries. Tax and Repatriation Matters We are subject to various business and income tax laws in each of the countries in which we do business through wholly-owned subsidiaries and through affiliates. Although we believe we comply with the many business and income tax requirements of each of our operations, we are exposed to the possibility of changes in enacted laws and interpretations of laws which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Also, we evaluate our overall financing plans in the various jurisdictions in which we operate and manage international movements of cash from and amongst our foreign subsidiaries in a tax-efficient manner; however, an unanticipated international movement of funds due to unexpected changes in our business or in needs of the business could result in a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Market Risk As a multinational entity, we are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. We utilize a variety of practices to manage these market risks, including operating and financing activities and, where considered appropriate, utilizes derivative instruments. We use derivative instruments only for risk management purposes and not for trading or speculation. All derivative instruments we use are either exchange traded or are entered into with major financial institutions in order to reduce credit risk and risk of nonperformance by third parties. Foreign Currency Risk Changes in foreign currency exchange rates may have an impact on our operating profit. Since we transact business in many countries, some of our sale and purchase transactions are denominated in a currency other than the local currency of our operations. As a result, changes in exchange rates between the currencies in which the transaction is denominated versus the local currency of our operation into which the transaction is being recorded can impact the amount of local currency recorded for such transaction. This can result in more or less local currency revenue or cost related to such transaction, and thus have an effect on our operating profit. This "currency transaction risk" is mitigated partially in France since some of the revenue and expense transactions of our French subsidiaries are denominated in U.S. dollars, 11 providing a degree of natural hedging. Our Brazilian operations are more fully exposed to this "currency transaction risk." Additionally, changes in foreign currency exchange rates may have an impact on the amount reported in other income (expense), net. Once the above-indicated receivables and payables from the sale and purchase transactions have been recorded, to the extent currency exchange rates change prior to settlement of the balance, a gain or loss on the non-local currency denominated asset or liability balance may be experienced, in which case such gain or loss is included in other income (expense), net. We utilize forward and swap contracts and, to a lesser extent, option contracts to selectively hedge our exposure to foreign currency transaction risk when it is practical and economical to do so. The use of these contracts minimizes transactional exposure to exchange rate changes because the gains or losses incurred on the derivative instrument will offset, in whole or in part, the loss or gain on the underlying foreign currency exposure. These instruments are entered into with well-known money center banks, insurance companies or government agencies, collectively known as counterparties. Usually, these contracts extend for no more than 12 months. We believe that the foreign currency risks that would not be hedged were the counterparties to fail to fulfill their obligations under the contracts are minimal in view of the financial strength of the counterparties. Management of foreign currency transactional exposures changed during 2007 relative to management of Brazilian real to U.S. dollar transactions and we expect to continue to apply forward currency hedging in our Brazilian operations through 2008. As of December 31, 2007, a 10 percent unfavorable change in the exchange rate of our functional currencies and those of our subsidiaries against the prevailing market rates of non-local currencies involving our transactional exposures would have resulted in a net pre-tax loss of approximately $2.5 million. These hypothetical gains or losses on foreign currency contracts and transactional exposures are defined as the difference between the contract rates and the hypothetical exchange rates. While we believe the above loss resulting from the hypothetical unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates would be material to our results of operations, we reduce this risk by selectively hedging our exposure when it is practical and economical to do so. In addition to currency transaction risks, we are also exposed to "currency translation risk." Since the financial results of our foreign subsidiaries are determined in the local currency of each foreign subsidiary, these financial results are translated into U.S. dollars on a monthly basis in order to determine our consolidated financial results. A weakening of the U.S. dollar versus the local currency of the foreign subsidiary will have a favorable currency translation impact when positive financial results of that foreign subsidiary are translated to U.S. dollars. Our foreign currency translation effects typically offset to a significant degree the foreign currency transaction impacts in our operating results. Interest Rate Risk We hold a combination of variable- and fixed-rate debt consisting of short- and long-term instruments. We selectively hedge our exposure to interest rate increases on our variable rate long-term debt when it is practical and economical to do so. We utilize various forms of interest rate hedge agreements, including interest rate swap agreements and forward rate agreements. We utilize variable-to-fixed interest rate swap agreements, typically with contractual terms no longer than 24 months. Our strategy to manage exposure to interest rate changes did not change during 2007, and we do not expect any significant changes in our exposure to interest rate changes or in how such exposure is managed in the near future. Various outstanding interest-bearing instruments are sensitive to changes in interest rates. Interest rate changes would result in gains or losses in fair market value of fixed-rate debt due to differences between current market interest rates and the rates governing these instruments. With respect to our fixed-rate debt outstanding at December 31, 2007, a 10 percent change in interest rates would not result in a material change in the fair market value of such debt and with respect to our variable-rate debt outstanding at December 31, 2007, a 10 percent change in interest rates would result in a $0.4 million impact to our future annual pre-tax earnings. 12 Commodity Price Risk We are subject to commodity price risks, the most significant of which relates to the price of wood pulp, which is our largest single component of raw material cost. The per ton cost of wood pulp is cyclical in nature and more volatile than general inflation. During the period from January 2005 through December 2007, the U.S. list price of northern bleached softwood kraft pulp, or NBSK, a representative pulp grade that we use, ranged from a low of $580 per metric ton in January 2004 to a high of $870 per metric ton in December 2007. We normally maintain approximately 30 to 60 days of inventories to support our operations. As a result, there is a lag in the impact of changes in the per ton list price of wood pulp on our cost of products sold. Selling prices of our paper products are influenced, in part, by the market price for wood pulp, which is determined by worldwide industry supply and demand. Generally, over time, we have been able to increase our selling prices in response to increased per ton wood pulp costs and have generally reduced our selling prices when wood pulp costs have significantly declined. Increases in prices of wood pulp could adversely impact our earnings if selling prices are not increased or if such increases do not fully compensate for or trail the increases in wood pulp prices. We have not utilized derivative instruments to manage this risk. With respect to our commodity price risk, a hypothetical 10 percent change in per ton wood pulp prices would impact our future annual pre-tax earnings by approximately $8 million, assuming no compensating change in our selling prices. We believe that, while our exposure to commodity price risk is material to our results of operations, our customers understand such risk and over time changes in the price of wood pulp are typically reflected in selling prices. Energy Supply and Cost Volatility In France and in the United States, availability of energy is generally not expected to be an issue, although prices can fluctuate significantly based on variations in demand. In Brazil, where that country's production of electricity is heavily reliant upon hydroelectric plants, availability of electricity has been affected in the past by weather and rain variations. Our Brazilian business currently has a sufficient supply of energy to continue its current level of operation. Due to the competitive pricing in the markets for most of our products, we are typically unable to fully pass through higher energy costs to our customers. With respect to our purchased energy price risk, a hypothetical 10 percent change in per unit prices would impact our future annual pre-tax earnings by approximately $8 million, assuming no compensating change in our selling prices. Periodically, when we believe it is appropriate to do so, we enter into agreements to procure a portion of our energy for future periods in order to reduce the uncertainty of future energy costs. However, in recent years this has only marginally slowed the increase in energy costs due to the volatile changes in energy prices we have experienced. General Inflation and Selling Prices In addition to changes in wood pulp and energy costs discussed above, costs of our operations are also impacted by general inflation. Our main costs impacted by general inflation are wages and salaries, chemicals, employee benefit costs, primarily medical and pension expenses, and costs of insurance. Due to competitive pressures, we are not always able to pass along our cost increases through increased selling prices. Seasonality Sales of our products are not subject to seasonal fluctuations, except in the United States and Brazil. In the United States, customer shutdowns typically occur in July and December and typically have resulted in reduced net sales and operating profit during those 2 months. Additionally, the U.S. mills shut down equipment to perform additional maintenance during these months, resulting in higher product costs and 13 reduced operating profit. In Brazil, customer orders are typically lower in December due to a holiday season during much of January and February. Environmental Matters We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign environmental protection laws and regulations with respect to the environmental impact of air, water and other emissions from our mills as well as the disposal of solid waste generated by our operations. We believe we are operating in compliance with, or are taking action aimed at ensuring compliance with, such laws and regulations. While we have incurred in the past several years, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures in order to comply with these laws and regulations, such costs are not expected to materially affect our business or results of operations. However, there can be no assurance that a material adverse effect on our financial statements will not occur at some future time as a result of environmental matters. Additional information concerning environmental matters is disclosed in Note 8, Commitments and Contingencies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and in Part I, Item 3 "Legal Proceedings—Environmental Matters." Legal Proceedings Information concerning legal proceedings is disclosed in Note 8, Commitments and Contingencies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and in Part I, Item 3 "Legal Proceedings." In addition, we are involved in legal actions and claims arising in the ordinary course of business. Litigation is subject to many uncertainties and, while it is not possible to predict the outcome of the litigation pending against us, management believes that such actions and claims will be resolved without a material adverse effect on our financial statements. Reliance on Significant Customers Most of our customers are manufacturers of tobacco products located in more than 90 countries around the world. Two such customers have accounted for a significant portion of our net sales in each of the last several years, and the loss of 1 or both such customers, or a significant reduction in 1 or both of these customers' purchases, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. During periods of excess supply in our industry, a significant loss of business is an increased risk. Our largest customer, Philip Morris, is currently undergoing a restructuring, which effectively separated its domestic and international cigarette businesses. Philip Morris. During December 2006, we provided Philip Morris USA with a notice of phase-out of the Second Amended and Restated Agreement for Fine Paper Supply, or SSA, between the 2 companies, effective December 31, 2006. Under the phase-out terms of the SSA, we are obligated to supply up to 100 percent of Philip Morris USA's annual cigarette, base tipping and plug wrap paper requirements for 2008 at current selling prices, which are subject to potential increases. Philip Morris USA is obligated to purchase from us at least 50 percent of its annual cigarette and plug wrap paper requirements for 2008. Negotiations regarding ongoing supply continue. The phase-out currently expires on December 31, 2008, at which time neither company has any further obligation under the SSA. We also have an exclusive supply arrangement with Philip Morris USA for a jointly-developed banded cigarette paper that is used in LIP cigarettes. We produce banded cigarette paper in sufficient quantities to support Philip Morris USA's commercial sales of LIP cigarettes. The notification of phase-out of the SSA does not affect the supply agreement between us and Philip Morris USA concerning banded cigarette paper used to produce lower LIP cigarettes. Under this agreement, Philip Morris USA is obligated to purchase 100 percent of its requirements for banded cigarette papers for a minimum period of 7 years, and we are obligated to supply such product for a minimum of 13 years. Our Spotswood mill is presently the only facility in the world that is capable of producing these banded cigarette papers. 14 British American Tobacco. During the fourth quarter of 2007, we concluded negotiations with British American Tobacco Company, or BAT, concerning global supply of cigarette-related fine papers for the years 2008 through 2010. As a result of these negotiations, we expect to increase the volume of cigarette paper and tipping paper, both base and finished, sold to BAT during the next 3 years at pricing commensurate with current market conditions. Tobacco Products and Governmental Actions In recent years, governmental entities around the world, particularly in the United States and western Europe, have taken or have proposed actions that may have the effect of reducing consumption of tobacco products. Reports and speculation with respect to the possible harmful physical effects of cigarette smoking and use of tobacco products have been publicized for many years and, together with actions to restrict or prohibit advertising and promotion of cigarettes or other tobacco products, to limit smoking in public places and to increase taxes on such products, are intended to discourage the consumption of cigarettes and other such products. Domestic and western European cigarette consumption has declined, in part due to these actions, which, in turn, decreases demand for our products. In addition, litigation is pending against the major manufacturers of consumer tobacco products seeking damages for health problems allegedly resulting from the use of tobacco in various forms. It is not possible to predict the outcome of such litigation or what effect adverse developments in pending or future litigation may have on the tobacco industry, our financial liquidity or relationships with our suppliers. Proposed U.S. healthcare legislation, the U.S. State Children's Health Insurance Program, known as SCHIP legislation, could significantly raise federal excise taxes on all tobacco products if passed. Our sales volumes of cigarette papers and cigar wrapper and binder papers could be negatively impacted by increased federal excise taxes. In each of the years 2005 through 2007, approximately 90 percent of our net sales were from products used by the tobacco industry in the making and packaging of cigarettes or other tobacco products. We are unable to predict the effects that the above-described legal and governmental actions might have on our results of operations and financial condition. Restructuring Activities We began restructuring activities in 2006 in France and the United States that have become part of an overall effort to improve an imbalance between demand for our products and our paper production capacity as well as improve our profitability and the quality of our products. Restructuring of our existing operations involves issues that are complex, time-consuming and expensive and could significantly disrupt our business. The challenges involved in executing these restructuring plans include: •demonstrating to customers that the restructuring activities will not result in adverse changes in service standards or business focus; •consolidating administrative infrastructure and manufacturing operations and maintaining adequate controls throughout the execution of the restructuring; •preserving distribution, sales and other important relationships and resolving potential conflicts that may arise; •minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business activities; •maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees while implementing restructuring programs; •coordinating and combining operations, which may be subject to additional constraints imposed by collective bargaining agreements and local law and regulations; and •achieving the anticipated levels of cost savings and efficiency as a result of the restructuring. 15 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 