Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following are important factors that could materially impact the Company’s results of operations or financial condition as well as the trading price of common stock. We may amend or supplement the risk factors described below from time to time by other reports we file with the SEC. Risks Related to our Company Failure to complete the Merger could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition. On February 17, 2007, the Company entered into the Merger Agreement with Altra. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, the Company has agreed not to solicit or support any alternative acquisition proposals, subject to customary exceptions for us to respond to an unsolicited “superior proposal”, as defined in the Merger Agreement, in the exercise of the fiduciary duties of our Board of Directors. The Offer and Merger are subject to customary closing conditions, including receipt of required regulatory approvals and compliance by us with certain representations, warranties and covenants. In the event of termination of the Merger Agreement, including for our failure to comply with the closing conditions, we would be obligated to pay a termination fee of $4.5 million under certain circumstances, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition, because we have agreed to operate our business in the ordinary course until completion of the Merger, we may not pursue acquisition activity or explore new lines of business, which, in the event of a termination of the Merger Agreement, could have a material adverse effect on our future business prospects. Concentration of ownership among our existing executives, directors and principal stockholders may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions. Our executives, directors and principal stockholders beneficially own, in the aggregate, securities representing approximately 53% of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, these stockholders can exercise significant influence over our business policies and affairs, including the composition of our board of directors and any action requiring the approval of our stockholders, including the adoption of amendments to our certificate of incorporation and the approval of significant corporate transactions, including the Transactions. This concentration of ownership will limit other stockholders’ ability to influence corporate actions. We cannot assure that the interests of these stockholders will not conflict with other stockholders’ interests. In addition, other stockholders’ interests may conflict with these stockholders in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships, including the timing and manner of any sales or distributions by these stockholders of all or any portion of their ownership interest in the Company, and the evaluation of, and activities concerning, business opportunities that may be presented to the Company, its directors and any affiliates associated with TB Wood’s. The price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. Historically, the market price of our common stock has fluctuated over a wide range. In fiscal year 2006 our common stock traded in a range from $ 6.90 to $ 17.74 and at February 20, 2007 following our merger announcement, our stock price was $ 24.67. In the event the aforementioned merger transaction is not consummated, it is likely that the price of our common stock will fluctuate in the future. The market price of companies with small-capitalization like ours may from time to time experience significant price and volume fluctuations unrelated to the operating performance. In particular, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly due to a variety of factors, including the sale or purchase of a significant block of shares, or overall movement of stock market indices. In addition, the occurrence of any of the other risks described in Item 1A could have a material and adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. Our senior secured credit facility and the purchase agreement governing our senior subordinated notes impose certain restrictions on the operation of our business. A failure to comply with these restrictions could lead to an event of default, resulting in an acceleration of indebtedness, which may affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs, or to engage in other business activities. 8 Table of Contents The operating and financial restrictions in our debt agreements, including our senior secured credit facility and our senior subordinated notes, may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. Our debt agreements contain certain covenants and financial tests that limit the way we conduct business, including covenants limiting our ability to incur or guarantee additional indebtedness, pay dividends and make other distributions, pre-pay any subordinated indebtedness, make investments and other restricted payments, make capital expenditures, make acquisitions and sell assets. These covenants may prevent us from raising additional financing, competing effectively or taking advantage of new business opportunities. Under our debt agreements, we are required also to maintain specific financial ratios and satisfy certain financial tests. If we cannot comply with these covenants or meet these ratios and other tests, it could result in a default under one or more of our debt agreements, and unless we are able to negotiate an amendment, forbearance or waiver, we could be required to repay all amounts then outstanding, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition depending upon our outstanding balance at the time. We may be adversely impacted by changes in interest rates. The effective interest rate payable on approximately half of our borrowings is variable and may be influenced by our operating performance and degree of leverage, as well as by actions of the Federal Reserve Bank Board in establishing from time to time the Federal Funds Interest rate that underlies the cost of funds borrowed by the Company. Refer to Item 7A of this Form 10-K for additional discussion of the interest risks. We have reported losses in the past and may report losses in future periods. Although we have reported operating income for fiscal years 2002 through 2006, we reported net losses for fiscal years 2002 and 2003. In addition, 2004 operating results would have reflected a net loss had the Company not recognized a non-recurring, non-cash gain related to the termination of a post-retirement benefit plan. Although 2006 was profitable, we cannot assure you that we will continue to operate profitably, and if we do not, we may not be able to meet our debt service requirements, working capital requirements, capital expenditure plans or other cash needs. Our inability to meet those needs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to our Business We operate in the highly competitive electronic and mechanical industrial transmission industry. The industrial power transmission industry is highly competitive. Our competitors include both large multi-national companies as well as many small domestic niche manufacturers. Our operating results depend in part on continued successful research, development and marketing of new and or improved products and services, particularly in the electronics business, and there can be no assurance that we will continue to successfully introduce new products and services. Our total operations are smaller than those of many of our competitors, many which are divisions of large, multi-national corporations, and we therefore may not have the same access to financial and other resources. Any increase in competition in our markets, or other activities by our competitors, could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business is cyclical. Our business is dependent on macro-economic factors, including industrial and consumer spending, and is therefore impacted by the cyclical strength of the economy generally, interest rates and other factors. Economic factors adversely affecting OEM production and consumer spending could adversely impact us. During periods of expansion in original equipment manufacturer production, we generally have benefited from increased demand for our products. Conversely, during recessionary periods, we have been adversely affected by reduced demand for our products. A significant portion of our revenues are generated from a limited number of customers and the termination of one or more of our relationships with any of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend on revenues from several significant customers, and any loss, cancellation, or reduction of, or delay in, purchases by these customers could harm our business. The Company’s five largest customers represent 32% of our revenues. Our success will depend on our continued ability to develop and manage relationships with these customers. We expect that significant customer concentration will continue for the foreseeable future. However, the loss of one or more of these relationships or a decline in the orders of a significant customer would have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 9 Table of Contents The relocation of customers to off-shore locations could result in increased costs of production and subject us to increased economic risk if we shift operations to meet customer demands. Off-shore customers and any relocation of our customers’ operating facilities could lead us to being a higher cost producer. In addition, some of our operations depend on production facilities located abroad. Operations that are located outside of the United States may be subject to increased risks of disrupted production which could cause delays in shipments and loss of customers and revenues. Our manufacturing facilities abroad may be more susceptible to changes in laws and policies in host countries and economic and political upheaval than our domestic facilities. Any such disruption could cause delays in shipments of products and the loss of sales and customers, and insurance proceeds may not adequately compensate us. Our dependence on, and the price of, raw materials may adversely affect our profits. We use a variety of raw materials and components in our business and significant shortages or price increases could increase our operating costs and adversely impact the competitive position of our products. In 2004, we experienced significant volatility and upward cost pressure for scrap steel and ancillary steel-based components, our primary raw materials. We cannot be assured that the prices we pay for these materials will not increase further. If we are unable to pass these or other price increases to our customers, our future profitability may be materially adversely affected. We may be adversely affected by environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. Our operations and properties are subject to federal, state, foreign and local laws, regulations and ordinances relating to environmental, health and safety risks. The nature of our operations exposes us to the risk of claims with respect to environmental, health and safety matters and any failure to comply with any environmental, health and safety regulations could subject us to future liability, including, fines, penalties and the suspension of production. Any changes in the regulatory regime applicable to us or any significant penalties for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operations abroad subject us to foreign currency fluctuations. Our consolidated financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars and accordingly, changes in the exchange rates between our subsidiaries’ local currency and the U.S. dollar will affect the translation of such subsidiaries financial results into U.S. dollars for the purposes of reporting consolidated financial results. The net assets, net earnings and cash flows from our operations in Mexico, Canada, Germany, Italy and India are based on the U.S. dollar equivalent of such amounts measured in the applicable functional currency. These foreign operations have the potential to impact our financial position due to fluctuations in the local currency arising from the process of re-measuring the local functional currency in the U.S. dollar. Refer to Item 7A of this Form 10-K for additional discussion on exchange rate risks. Our inability to attract and retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our future success. Our future success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key management and technical personnel and on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. Recruiting and retaining skilled personnel has become even more competitive as the domestic economy has improved in recent years. In addition, key personnel may choose to terminate their service with us due to our pending acquisition by Altra. The loss of services of one or more of our key employees or our failure to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we believe our control systems are effective, there are inherent limitations in all control systems, and misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, cannot guarantee that our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all possible errors or all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no system of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur 10 Table of Contents because of simple error or mistake. Further, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be detected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 