D. Risk Factors – Lihir’s operations may be adversely affected by difficult geological conditions”. Insurance Lihir has a comprehensive insurance program providing coverage for property damage & business interruption (property loss or damage, business interruption and construction risks), combined liability (public, 44 Table of Contents products and errors & omissions), directors & officers liability, marine liability, aviation liability, crime (fidelity guarantee, theft by employees) and money (theft by people other than employees). Deductibles apply to any claim. Major property damage and business interruption risks are assessed annually. Recent years have seen an increase in premiums as a result of insurance market conditions worldwide. Workers’ compensation and medical insurance for employees are separately provided for under PNG policies. While the company has obtained the required political risk insurance in favor of its lenders, covering the full extent of borrowings under the syndicated facility agreement, the company does not receive any benefit from this insurance. Under the policy, any payment will become subrogated to the rights of the banks against the company in respect of that payment. No political risk insurance has been, or is currently proposed to be, arranged for the benefit of the company. See “Item 10. Additional Information — Material Contracts — Financing Agreements”. Security The company has supported the establishment by the community on Lihir of a law and good order committee. This committee has liaised closely with the Royal PNG Constabulary (Police) and other relevant agencies. Several initiatives on community policing, such as education campaigns on illicit drugs, alcohol abuse and domestic violence continue to be pursued. There have also been training courses conducted to improve the performance of Village Courts. Village Courts are an important level of the judicial system in the local community. At a District Court level, a resident magistrate continues to be stationed on Lihir, and court facilities have been established allowing the hearing of criminal and civil matters without long delays. Project security encompasses the plant, mine site, commercial area, housing estate, camps, hospital, airport and associated infrastructure. These services are provided by a local security company with security personnel managed and supported company personnel. A police station and cell block were completed and handed over to the Royal PNG Constabulary in late 1997. The company also provides government housing and other support to the Lihir police contingent. External police support can be mobilized from Kavieng or Rabaul if required. Flight distances from both of these centers are less than one hour. Item 4A. Unresolved Staff Comments The SEC has advised Lihir that it has reviewed the company's Form 20-F for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004 (the "2004 Form 20-F"). Based on its review of this document, the SEC provided the company with comments and questions. The main line of questions has been concerning the company's accounting treatment of stripping costs following the EITF 04-06 guidance issued in March 2005 which is applicable to the company's US GAAP reconciliation from 1 January 2006. The unresolved staff comments are: • the company’s accounting for deferred stripping costs and the application of the company's deferred stripping ratio on a life-of-mine basis as opposed to a phase basis; • the company’s application of a stripping ratio to pre-production stripping and waste removal costs and why it is more appropriate to attribute pre-production costs using a stripping ratio as opposed to depleting such costs using the units of production method consist with the staffs view that these costs are mine development costs rather than production costs; and • What changes have there been to the company's mining process to support the change from the phased based stripping ratio calculations. Discussions regarding the 2004 Form 20-F are ongoing and could result in modifications to that document or this Form 20-F. The company will continue to work with the SEC to reach resolution of any outstanding issues and will provide updates if any material developments occur. 45 Table of Contents Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects A. Operating Results Introduction This section provides an analysis of Lihir’s business and compares its fiscal year 2005 financial results with those of the previous two fiscal years. It should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes at Item 18 of this report. The basis of preparation of the financial statements is set out in Note 1 of the financial statements. These accounting policies vary in certain important respects from the accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (US GAAP). The material differences affecting the profit and loss account and shareholders’ equity between generally accepted accounting principles followed by Lihir and those generally accepted in the US are summarized in Note 30 of the financial statements. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of Lihir’s financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles is based on management estimates and assumptions, which may have a material impact on the carrying values of assets, liabilities and provisions recorded and their effect on the income statement. Some of the more significant issues requiring the use of management estimates and assumptions include estimates of proven and probable ore reserves, rate of gold recovery, future gold price assumptions and environmental, reclamation and closure costs. Such estimates and assumptions will have an effect on: • Carrying value of Lihir’s non-current assets (IAS 36 “Impairment of Assets” and IAS 4 “Depreciation Accounting”) Mine properties Mine properties represent the accumulation of all development expenditures incurred by or on behalf of the Company in relation to areas of interest in which mining of a mineral resource has commenced. When future economic benefits are established by further development expenditure in respect of a mine property after the commencement of production, such expenditure is carried forward as part of the cost of that mine property. Otherwise such expenditure is classified as part of the cost of production. Amortization of costs is provided for using the units-of-production method, separate calculations being made for each mineral resource. The units-of-production basis results in an amortization charge proportional to the depletion of estimated recoverable gold ounces contained in proved and probable ore reserves. Where a change in estimated recoverable gold ounces contained in proved and probable ore reserves is made, depreciation and amortization of mine properties is accounted for prospectively in the period of change and future periods. 46 Table of Contents Mine buildings, plant and equipment The cost of each item of buildings, machinery and equipment is depreciated over its expected useful life. For the majority of assets this is accomplished using the units-of-production method based on estimated recoverable gold ounces contained in proved and probable ore reserves, although some assets are depreciated using a percentage based on time. Each item’s economic life has due regard to both physical life limitations and to present assessments of economically recoverable reserves of the mine property (where appropriate) and to possible future variations in those assessments. Estimates of remaining useful lives are made on a regular basis for all assets, with annual reassessments for major items. The total net carrying values of mine building, plant and equipment at each mine property are reviewed regularly and, to the extent to which these values exceed their recoverable amounts, that excess is fully provided against in the financial year in which this is determined. Remaining mine life In estimating the remaining life of the mine for the purpose of amortization and depreciation calculations, due regard is given, not only to the amount of remaining recoverable gold ounces contained in proved and probable ore reserves, but also to limitations which could arise from the potential for changes in technology, demand, product substitution and other issues which are inherently difficult to estimate over a lengthy time frame. Impairment of assets Impairments of assets are recognized whenever the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable value. The recoverable amount is measured as the higher of net selling price and value in use. Value in use for individual assets is calculated by discounting future cash flows using a risk adjusted pre-tax discount rate. Under IAS 36 “Impairments of Assets”, impairments of assets are recognized whenever the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is measured as the higher of net selling price and value in use. Value in use is calculated by discounting future cash flows of the company’s cash generating unit using a risk adjusted pre-tax discount rate. The cash-generating unit comprises mine properties and deferred mining costs. In 2004, as a result of an increase in the long-term gold price assumption to US$380 per ounce, the company determined that the recoverable amount exceeded the carrying value of its assets and a full reversal of prior year impairment charges was booked. The calculation of the net realizable value also allows for the processing of the company’s economic grade stockpiles. In the previous five years the following assumptions have been used in determining ‘value in use’ of the company’s cash generating unit, giving rise to the following impairment (charges) / reversals. 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 Long term gold price — US$ / oz 425 380 340 305 280 Discount Rate 7 % 7 % 7 % 7 % 6 % Impairment (charge) / reversal - IAS GAAP US$ millions 0 205.7 31.1 37.9 0 - US GAAP US$ millions 0 0 0 0 0 There can be no assurance that the assumed per ounce gold price will be realized in future spot sales or that other factors underlying the estimate of recoverable amount will not change. Changes in the time value of money and in the assessment of risks specific to Lihir may require changes to the discount rate assumption. Adverse changes in these assumptions could materially reduce Lihir’s estimate of its recoverable amount, thereby negatively affecting its reported financial position and results of operations, and its future cash flows. 47 Table of Contents • Non-current liabilities (IAS 37 “Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets”) Restoration, rehabilitation and environmental expenditure In accordance with IAS 37 “Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets”, a provision is raised for anticipated expenditure to be made on restoration and rehabilitation to be undertaken after mine closure. These costs include the costs of dismantling and demolition of infrastructure or decommissioning, the removal of residual material and the remediation of disturbed areas. The provision is only raised in respect of disturbance incurred up to balance date. The amount of any provision recognized is the full amount that has been estimated based on expected future costs to be required to settle present obligations, discounted using a pre-tax discount rate, reflecting current market assessments of the time value of money and those risks specific to the liability, of 6.2% (2004: 6.5%, 2003: 6.5%). Although estimates of future costs are reassessed annually, given the prolonged period to mine closure, it is possible that estimates of ultimate restoration, rehabilitation and environmental liabilities could change as a result of changes in regulations, the extent of environmental remediation required and the means of reclamation or cost estimates. The expected future cost of this is US$37 million with most expenditure scheduled for expenditure after mine closure in 2021 and plant closure in approximately 2042. This amount excludes the independent third party’s estimated reserve of US$7 million for decommissioning the power plants, the removal of some mine buildings and the removal of some town facilities. It is anticipated such assets will have substantial future value for the Lihirian community after mine and plant closure. A corresponding asset, which represents future economic benefits, is raised and subsequently amortized using the units of production method. The company’s restoration, rehabilitation and environmental expenditure policy identifies the environmental, social and engineering issues to be considered and the procedures to be followed when providing for costs associated with the site closure. Site rehabilitation and closure involves the dismantling and demolition of infrastructure not intended for subsequent community use, the removal of residual materials and the remediation of disturbed areas. Community requirements and long-term land use objectives are also taken into account. • Inventory valuation (IAS 2 “Inventories”) Inventories Inventories of ore and metal are physically measured or estimated and valued at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Cost comprises direct material, direct labour and transportation expenditure in getting such inventories to their existing location and condition, together with an appropriate portion of fixed and variable overhead expenditure and depreciation and amortization, based on weighted average costs incurred during the period in which such inventories are produced. Net realizable value is the amount estimated to be obtained from sale of the item of inventory in the normal course of business, less any anticipated costs to be incurred prior to its sale. Inventories of consumable supplies and spare parts expected to be used in production are valued at the lower of weighted average cost, which includes the cost of purchase as well as transportation and statutory charges, and net realizable value. In years prior to 2004, a full provision of US$65 million was made against non-current ore stockpiles on the basis that cost exceeded net realizable value. In accordance with IAS 2, that previous write-down had been fully reversed in 2004 to reflect the cost of these ore stockpiles, which is the amount that is expected to be realized from the future processing of that ore. At December 31, 2005 this amount exceeds the cost of US$115.5 million. 48 Table of Contents • Deferred tax position (IAS 12 “Income Taxes”) Income tax Tax effect accounting procedures are followed using the liability method for all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying values for financial reporting purposes. Income tax on temporary differences is set aside to the deferred tax liability and deferred tax asset accounts at current enacted tax rates. Deferred tax assets relating to deductible temporary differences and tax losses are only carried forward as an asset, to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences and tax losses can be utilized. • Derivative financial instruments (IAS 39 “Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement”) Accounting for derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Derivative financial instruments are initially recognized in the balance sheet at cost and are subsequently re-measured at their fair values. On the date a derivative contract is entered into for the sale of gold, Lihir designates the contract as a hedge against specific future production. The method of recognizing the resulting gain or loss is dependent on the nature of the item being hedged. Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated against future gold production and are therefore deemed effective, qualify as cash flow hedges and are recognized in equity. Amounts deferred in equity are transferred to the income statement and classified as revenue in the same periods in which the designated gold sales are recognized in the income statement. Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting under the specific rules in IAS 39. Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting under IAS 39 are recognized immediately in the income statement. When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting under IAS 39, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognized when the committed or forecasted production is ultimately recognized in the income statement. However, if the committed or forecasted production is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement. At inception of the transaction, the company documents the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. This process includes linking all derivatives designated as hedges to specific forecast gold sales. The company also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items. In assessing the fair value of non-traded derivatives and other financial instruments, the company obtains a valuation from an independent external party. • Deferred mining costs (IAS 16 “Property, Plant and Equipment”) Direct expenditure on mining such as stripping, drilling and depreciation costs, are brought to account on a pit basis for each stage of the mine’s development based on the estimated ratio of waste to ore for each pit. During the production stage the actual ratio of waste to ore removed for each pit varies from year to year. In periods where more than the average amount of waste is removed the surplus is transferred to deferred mining costs. It is subsequently expensed during periods where the waste to ore ratio is less than the average. The average amount of waste to be removed is assessed according to the production stage of each pit, and not over the entire life of the mine. 49 Table of Contents Until 2004, deferred mining costs in relation to the Minifie pit were determined on a phase basis consistent with the characteristics of that pit. From January 1, 2004, the company changed the basis to deferring mining costs on a pit basis, principally to more accurately reflect the costs of assessing future ore reserves from the Lienetz pit, which is the new pit relating to current mining operations. The impact of this change to the company’s results at December 31, 2004 was an US$1.6 million increase in deferred mining costs. Actual strip ratio will often vary to the average strip ratio used for a number of reasons including: • short term changes in the mine plan and scheduling within the period; • changes in the reserves and strip ratio with a change in cut off grade policy; and • changes in pit wall design and operating strategies. In relation to the Minifie pit, the average strip ratios used compared to actual ratios were 2.6 vs. 0.6 (2005) 2.6 vs. 0.4 (2004), and 3.5 vs. 0.9 (2003). In each of these years, the actual ratios for the pit were lower than the average ratios used, reflecting the substantially reduced amount of waste being extracted from the pit relative to the ore mined, as mining of this pit neared completion with only remnant mining of ore throughout 2005. As a result deferred stripping costs of $3.2 million, $10.7 million and $17.7 million (included deferred mining costs opening balances) were expensed to the income statement in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The balance of deferred stripping costs were nil, nil, and $2.8 million as at 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. In relation to the Lienetz pit, the average strip ratios used compared to actual ratios were 2.9 vs. 4.2 (2005), 4.8 vs. 11.9 (2004) and 5.4 vs. 189.4 (2003). The actual ratio in 2005 has reduced considerably compared to the ratio in 2004 and 2003. In prior periods extensive pre-stripping was required. In 2005, there was a reduced amount of waste relative to ore, as isolated pockets of gold bearing ore were encountered. As a result deferred stripping costs of $55.3 million, $28.1 million and nil (included deferred mining costs opening balances) were expensed to the income statement in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The balance of deferred stripping costs were $92.0 million, $66.9 million and $26.3 million as at 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Overview The following sections provide an overview of Lihir’s results, financial results of operations, impairment provisions, foreign currency fluctuations and the impact of recently issued accounting standards. For discussion on Lihir’s reserves see “