Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating our business. There are a number of risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those that are indicated by forward-looking statements. Some of the risks described relate principally to our business and the industry in which we operate. Others relate principally to the securities market and ownership of our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. You should also consider the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We have a history of losses and our future profitability is uncertain. Our expenses have exceeded our revenue since our formation in 1987, and our accumulated deficit at December 31, 2010 was $310.3 million (including restated amounts from prior periods). Our revenue for the last three fiscal years from continuing operations was $0.3 in 2010, $0.3 million in 2009 and $1.1 million in 2008. We have recorded limited revenue from research contracts, licenses and agreements to provide vaccine candidates, services and technologies. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in entering into strategic alliances or collaborative arrangements with other companies that will result in significant revenue to offset our expenses. Our net losses for the last three fiscal years were $35.7 million in 2010, $40.3 million (as restated) in 2009 and $34.5 million (as restated) in 2008, including discontinued operations. Our recent historical losses have predominantly resulted from research and development expenses for our vaccine product candidates, manufacturing-related expenses, costs related to protection of our intellectual property and for other general operating expenses. Our expenses have exceeded our revenue since inception. We believe our expenses will continue to increase, as a result of higher research and development efforts to support the development of our vaccines, particularly our pandemic and seasonal influenza vaccines. Although certain specified costs associated with the development of our influenza vaccines may be reimbursed under the contract with HHS BARDA, nevertheless we expect to continue to incur significant operating expenses and anticipate that our expenses and losses will increase in the foreseeable future as we seek to: • complete Phase II and initiate Phase III clinical trials for our seasonal influenza vaccine; • conduct clinical trials for RSV; • conduct pre-clinical studies for other early-stage vaccine candidates; • comply with the FDA’s manufacturing facility requirements; • scale-up our manufacturing process for commercial scale and cost efficiency; and • maintain, expand and protect our intellectual property portfolio. As a result, we expect our cumulative operating losses to increase until such time, if ever, that product sales, licensing fees, royalties, milestones, contract research and other sources generate sufficient revenue to fund our continuing operations. We cannot predict when, if ever, we might achieve profitability and cannot be certain that we will be able to sustain profitability, if achieved. We have limited financial resources and we are not certain that we will be able to maintain our current level of operations or be able to fund the further development of our product candidates. We do not expect to generate revenue from product sales, licensing fees, royalties, milestones, contract research or other sources in an amount sufficient to fully fund our operations for the foreseeable future, and we will therefore use our cash resources and expect to require additional funds to maintain our operations, continue our research and development programs, commence future pre-clinical studies and clinical trials, seek regulatory approvals and manufacture and market our products. We will seek such additional funds through public or private equity or debt financings, collaborative licensing and development arrangements, government 12 TABLE OF CONTENTS grants and other sources. While we continue to apply for grants from academic institutions, non-profits and governmental entities, there are no assurances that we would be successful. We cannot be certain that adequate additional funding will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. If we cannot raise the additional funds required for our anticipated operations, we may be required to delay significantly, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs, downsize our general and administrative infrastructure, or seek alternative measures to avoid insolvency, including arrangements with collaborative partners or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, product candidates or products. If we raise additional funds through future offerings of shares of our common stock or other securities, such offerings would cause dilution of current stockholders’ percentage ownership in the Company, which could be substantial. Future offerings also could have a material and adverse effect on the price of our common stock. The current capital and credit market conditions may adversely affect our access to capital, cost of capital, and ability to execute our business plan as scheduled. Access to capital markets is critical to our ability to operate. Traditionally, biopharmaceutical companies have funded their research and development expenditures through raising capital in the equity markets. Declines and uncertainties in these markets in the past have severely restricted raising new capital and have affected companies’ ability to continue to expand or fund existing research and development efforts. We require significant capital for research and development for our product candidates and clinical trials. The general economic and capital market conditions, both in the United States and worldwide, have been extremely volatile over the past thirty months and have adversely affected our access to capital and increased the cost of capital, and any recovery will likely be very slow. There is no certainty that the capital and credit markets will recover to the point where we could raise additional capital on terms similar to the terms that companies raised capital prior to the deterioration. If these economic conditions continue or become worse, our future cost of equity or debt capital and access to the capital markets could be adversely affected. In addition, our inability to access the capital markets on favorable terms due to our low stock price, could affect our ability to execute our business plan as scheduled. Moreover, we rely and intend to rely on third-parties, including our clinical research organizations, third-party manufacturers and certain other important vendors and consultants. As a result of the global economic situation, there may be a disruption or delay in the performance of our third-party contractors and suppliers. If such third-parties are unable to adequately satisfy their contractual commitments to us in a timely manner, our business could be adversely affected. We may not be able to win government, academic institution or non-profit grants. From time to time, we may apply for grants from academic institutions, government agencies and non-profit entities. Such grants or contracts can be highly attractive because they provide capital to fund the ongoing development of our technologies and product candidates without diluting our stockholders. However, there is often significant competition for these grants. Grantors may have requirements to apply for or to otherwise be eligible to receive certain grants that our competitors may be able to satisfy that we cannot. In addition, grantors may make arbitrary decisions as to whether to make grants, to whom the grants will be awarded and the size of the grants to each awardee. Even if we are able to satisfy the award requirements, there is no guarantee that we will be a successful awardee. Therefore, we may not be able to win any grants in a timely manner, if at all. Even with the HHS BARDA contract award, we may not be able to fully fund our influenza programs. The HHS BARDA contract is a cost-plus-fixed-fee reimbursement contract that only reimburses certain specified activities that have been previously authorized by HHS BARDA. There is no guarantee that additional activities will not be needed and, if so, that HHS BARDA will reimburse us for these activities. Additionally, we have no experience meeting the significant requirements of a federal government contractor, which includes having appropriate accounting, project tracking and earned-value management systems implemented and operational, and we may not be able to meet these requirements in a timely way or at all. Performance under the HHS BARDA contract requires that we comply with appropriate regulations and operational mandates, with which we have minimal or no operational experience. Our ability to be regularly and fully reimbursed for our activities will depend on our ability to comply and demonstrate compliance with such requirements. 13 TABLE OF CONTENTS A portion of our investments are auction rate securities which present potential liquidity concerns. As of December 31, 2010, we had $5.1 million invested in three auction rate securities, which were classified as short-term investments available-for-sale and carried at their estimated fair value of $4.1 million. Auction rate securities are long-term debt instruments that provide liquidity through a competitive bidding process known as a “Dutch Auction” that resets the applicable interest rates at pre-determined calendar intervals. Although two auction rate securities were redeemed during the year ended December 31, 2009, as a result of the issues that presently exist in the credit markets, we may be unable to liquidate some or all of our remaining auction rate securities when we are in need of the cash to fund operations at prices that are acceptable to us. Even if we are able to liquidate the investments, the sales may be at a loss. In addition, given the complexity of auction rate securities and their valuations, our estimates of their fair value may differ from the actual amount we would be able to collect in the ultimate sale. It is uncertain as to when the liquidity issues relating to these investments will improve. Our collaborations with regional partners, such as Cadila and LGLS, expose us to additional risks associated with doing business outside the United States, and any adverse event could have a material negative impact on our operations. We have formed a joint venture with Cadila in India, entered into a license agreement with LGLS in South Korea, and have entered into other agreements and arrangements with companies in other countries. We plan to continue to enter into collaborations or partnerships with companies, non-profit organizations and local governments in other parts of the world. Risks of conducting business outside the United States include: • multiple regulatory requirements could affect the ability to develop, manufacture and sell products in such local markets; • compliance with anti-bribery laws such as the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions; • trade protections measures and import and export licensing requirements; • different labor regulations; • changes in environmental, health and safety laws; • exchange rates; • potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws; • political instability and actual or anticipated military or potential conflicts; • economic instability, inflation, recession and interest rate fluctuations; • minimal or diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries; and • possible nationalization and expropriation. These risks, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows. Our strategy to enter into regional relationships may hinder our ability to engage in a larger transaction. We have entered into regional collaborations to develop our product candidates in certain parts of the world, and we may enter into additional regional collaborations. Our relationships with Cadila and LGLS are examples of this strategy. These relationships are likely to involve the licensing of our technology to our partner or entering into a distribution agreement, frequently on an exclusive basis. Generally, these exclusive agreements are restricted to certain territories. Because we have entered into exclusive license and distribution agreements, larger companies may not be interested, or able, to enter into collaborations with us on a worldwide scale. Also, these regional relationships may make us an unattractive target for an acquisition. 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS We are a biopharmaceutical company and face significant risk in developing, manufacturing and commercializing our products. We focus our research and development activities on vaccines, an area in which we have particular strengths and a technology that appears promising. The outcome of any research and development program is highly uncertain. Only a small fraction of biopharmaceutical development programs ultimately result in commercial products or even product candidates and a number of events could delay our development efforts and negatively impact our ability to obtain regulatory approval for, and to manufacture, market and sell, a product candidate. Product candidates that initially appear promising often fail to yield successful products. In many cases, pre-clinical studies or clinical trials will show that a product candidate is not efficacious or that it raises safety concerns or has other side effects that outweigh its intended benefit. Success in pre-clinical or early clinical trials may not translate into success in large-scale clinical trials. Further, success in clinical trials will likely lead to increased investment, accelerating cumulative losses, to bring such products to market. Even if clinical trial results are positive, we may face challenges when scaling-up the production process to commercial levels. Even after a product is approved and launched, general usage or post-marketing trials may identify safety or other previously unknown problems with the product, which may result in regulatory approvals being suspended, limited to narrow indications or revoked, which may otherwise prevent successful commercialization. Intense competition in the vaccine industry could also limit the successful commercialization of our products. The HHS BARDA contract award does not guarantee that we will be successful in future clinical trials or that the vaccine candidates will be licensed by the FDA. The HHS BARDA contract provides a cost-plus-fixed-fee reimbursement opportunity for certain specified clinical and development activities, but Novavax remains fully responsible for conducting these activities. The award of the HHS BARDA contract does not guarantee that any of these activities will be successful. Novavax’s inability to be successful with certain key clinical or development activities could jeopardize our ability to get FDA licensure to sell our vaccines. Many of our competitors have significantly greater resources and experience, which may negatively impact our commercial opportunities and those of our current and future licensees. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are subject to intense competition and rapid and significant technological change. We have many potential competitors, including major drug and chemical companies, specialized biotechnology firms, academic institutions, government agencies and private and public research institutions. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial and technical resources, experience and expertise in: • research and development; • pre-clinical testing; • designing and implementing clinical trials; • regulatory processes and approvals; • production and manufacturing; and • sales and marketing of approved products. Principal competitive factors in our industry include: • the quality and breadth of an organization’s technology; • management of the organization and the execution of the organization’s strategy; • the skill and experience of an organization’s employees and its ability to recruit and retain skilled and experienced employees; • an organization’s intellectual property portfolio; 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS • the range of capabilities, from target identification and validation to drug discovery and development to manufacturing and marketing; and • the availability of substantial capital resources to fund discovery, development and commercialization activities. Large and established companies such as Merck & Co., Inc., GlaxoSmithKline plc, Novartis, Inc., sanofi pasteur, Inc. and MedImmune, LLC (a subsidiary of AstraZeneca PLC), among others, compete in the vaccine market. In particular, these companies have greater experience and expertise in securing government contracts and grants to support their research and development efforts, conducting testing and clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals to market products, and manufacturing such products on a broad scale and marketing approved products. There are many seasonal influenza vaccines currently approved and marketed. Competition in the sale of these seasonal influenza vaccines is intense. Therefore, newly developed and approved products must be differentiated from existing vaccines in order to have commercial success. In order to show differentiation in the seasonal influenza space, a product must be more efficacious, particularly in the elderly population, and/or be less expensive and quicker to manufacture. Many of our competitors are working on new products and new generations of current products, often by adding an adjuvant that is used to increase the efficacy of the current product, each of which is intended to be more efficacious than products currently being marketed. Our seasonal influenza product may not prove to be more efficacious than current products or products under development by our competitors. Further, our manufacturing system may not provide enough savings of time or money to provide the required differentiation for commercial success. Smaller or early-stage companies and research institutions may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established pharmaceutical or other companies. As these companies develop their technologies, they may develop proprietary positions, which may prevent or limit our product development and commercialization efforts. We will also face competition from these parties in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and subject registration for clinical trials, and in acquiring and in-licensing technologies and products complementary to our programs or potentially advantageous to our business. If any of our competitors succeed in obtaining approval from the FDA or other regulatory authorities for their products sooner than we do or for products that are more effective or less costly than ours, our commercial opportunity could be significantly reduced. In order to effectively compete, we will have to make substantial investments in development, testing, manufacturing and sales and marketing or partner with one or more established companies. There is no assurance that we will be successful in gaining significant market share for any product or product candidate. Our technologies and products also may be rendered obsolete or non-competitive as a result of products introduced by our competitors to the marketplace more rapidly and at a lower cost. If we lose or are unable to attract key management or other personnel, we may experience delays in product development. We depend on our senior executive officers, as well as key scientific and other personnel. The loss of these individuals could harm our business and significantly delay or prevent the achievement of research, development or business objectives. We have had several turnover situations in key executive positions and the lack of management continuity and resulting lack of long-term history with our Company along with the learning curve that executives experience when they join our management team could result in operational and administrative inefficiencies and added costs. If we were to experience additional turnover at the executive level, these risks would be exacerbated. We may not be able to attract qualified individuals for other key management or other personnel positions on terms acceptable to us. Competition for qualified employees is intense among pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and the loss of qualified employees, or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional highly skilled employees required for the expansion of our activities, could hinder our ability to complete clinical trials successfully and develop marketable products. 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS We also rely from time-to-time on outside advisors who assist us in formulating our research and development and clinical strategy. We may not be able to attract and retain these individuals on acceptable terms, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may have product liability exposure. The administration of drugs or vaccines to humans, whether in clinical trials or after marketing clearances are obtained, can result in product liability claims. We maintain product liability insurance coverage in the total amount of $20 million aggregate for all claims arising from the use of products in clinical trials prior to FDA approval. Coverage is relatively expensive, and the market pricing can significantly fluctuate. Therefore, we may not be able to maintain insurance at a reasonable cost. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our existing insurance coverage or obtain coverage for the use of our other products in the future. This insurance coverage and our resources may not be sufficient to satisfy all liabilities resulting from product liability claims. A successful claim may prevent us from obtaining adequate product liability insurance in the future on commercially desirable items, if at all. Even if a claim is not successful, defending such a claim would be time-consuming and expensive, may damage our reputation in the marketplace, and would likely divert management’s attention. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for our products; • impairment of our business reputation; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • costs of related litigation; • substantial monetary awards to subjects or other claimants; • loss of revenue; and • inability to commercialize our product candidates. The restatement of our historical financial statements has already consumed a significant amount of our time and resources and may continue to do so. As described in Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations — Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements, we have restated our consolidated financial statements for the periods discussed herein. The restatement process was highly time and resource-intensive and involved substantial attention from management, as well as significant legal and accounting costs. Although we have now completed the restatement, we cannot guarantee that we will have no further inquiries from the SEC or Nasdaq regarding our restated consolidated financial statements or matters relating thereto. Any future inquiries from the SEC or Nasdaq as a result of the restatement of our historical financial statements will, regardless of the outcome, likely consume a significant amount of our resources in addition to those resources already consumed in connection with the restatement itself. Further, many companies that have been required to restate their historical financial statements have experienced a decline in stock price and stockholder lawsuits related thereto. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, and current and potential stockholders may lose confidence in our financial reporting. We are required by the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 to establish and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting that provides reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). We are likewise required, on an annual basis, to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls and to disclose on a quarterly basis any material changes in those internal controls. 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS As described in Item 9A — Controls and Procedures elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in connection with the restatement process, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting with regard to having sufficient technical resources to appropriately analyze and account for complex derivative instruments, specifically with regard to our prior interpretation of ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging, as it related to the initial classification and subsequent accounting of registered warrants as equity instruments dating back to July 2008. Upon a reassessment, we determined that we should have accounted for these Warrants as liabilities instead of equity. Given this material weakness, management concluded that we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010. We plan to devote resources to the remediation and improvement of our internal control over financial reporting, in particular over handling of complex derivative accounting issues. As the Company enters into transactions that involve complex accounting issues, it will consult with third party professionals with expertise in these matters as necessary to insure appropriate accounting treatment for such transactions. The elements of our remediation plan can only be accomplished over time and we can offer no assurance that these initiatives will ultimately have the intended effects. Any failure to maintain such internal controls could adversely impact our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis. If our financial statements are not accurate, investors may not have a complete understanding of our operations or may lose confidence in our reported financial information. Likewise, if our financial statements are not filed on a timely basis as required by the SEC and Nasdaq, we could face severe consequences from those authorities. In either case, it could result in a material adverse effect on our business or have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. We can give no assurance that the measures we have taken and plan to take in the future will remediate the material weakness identified or that any additional material weaknesses or restatements of our financial statements will not arise in the future due to a failure to implement and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting or circumvention of those controls. The value of our warrants outstanding is subject to potentially material increases and decreases based on fluctuations in the price of our common stock. In July 2008, we completed a registered direct offering of 6,686,650 units, raising approximately $17.5 million in net proceeds. Each unit consisted of one share of common stock and a Warrant to purchase 0.5 shares of common stock at a price of $2.68 per unit. The Warrants represent the right to acquire an aggregate of 3,343,325 shares of common stock at a price of $3.62 per share and are exercisable between January 31, 2009 and July 31, 2013. These Warrants are discussed above in the Explanatory Note — Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We account for the Warrants as a derivative instrument, and changes in the fair value of the Warrants are included under other income (expense) in the Company’s statements of operations for each reporting period. At December 31, 2010, the aggregate fair value of the Warrant liability included in the Company’s consolidated balance sheet was $2.8 million. We use the Monte Carlo Simulation model to determine the fair value of the Warrants. As a result, the valuation of this derivative instrument is subjective, and the option-pricing model requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the expected stock price volatility and probability of a Fundamental Transaction. Changes in these assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate. We could, at any point in time, ultimately incur amounts significantly different than the carrying value. There are outstanding loans owed by certain of our former directors which may not be repaid. Two of our former directors have outstanding promissory notes due to the Company. The promissory notes were initially delivered by the former directors to us in March 2002 as payment of the exercise price of certain of their individual stock options. As security, the former directors pledged shares of our common stock as collateral. As of December 31, 2010, the outstanding principal and interest for these two promissory notes was $2.0 million. Both promissory notes are currently in default. 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS We are uncertain about the ultimate collectability of these promissory notes. At our current market prices, we do not expect to recover the full amount outstanding under either promissory note upon a sale of the pledged shares alone. We have initiated law suits to collect under both of these promissory notes, however litigation is uncertain and potentially expensive. Even with a successful verdict, there are no assurances that the former directors will be able to repay the promissory notes in full. Raising additional capital by issuing securities or through collaboration and licensing arrangements may cause dilution to existing stockholders or require us to relinquish rights to our technologies or product candidates. If we are unable to partner with a third-party to advance the development of one or more of our vaccine candidates, we will need to raise money through additional debt or equity financings. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders will experience immediate dilution which may be significant. To the extent that we raise additional capital through licensing arrangements or arrangements with collaborative partners, we may be required to relinquish, on terms that may not be favorable to us, rights to some of our technologies or product candidates that we would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize ourselves. In addition, current economic conditions may also negatively affect the desire or ability of potential collaborators to enter into transactions with us. They may also have to delay or cancel research and development projects or reduce their overall budgets. PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT RISKS Because our vaccine product development efforts depend on new and rapidly evolving technologies, we cannot be certain that our efforts will be successful. Our vaccine work depends on new, rapidly evolving technologies and on the marketability and profitability of our products. Commercialization of our vaccine products could fail for a variety of reasons, and include the possibility that: • our VLP technology, any or all of the products based on VLP technology or our proprietary manufacturing process will be ineffective or unsafe, or otherwise fail to receive necessary regulatory clearances or commercial viability; • we are unable to scale-up our manufacturing capabilities in a cost effective manner; • the products, if safe and effective, will be difficult to manufacture on a large-scale or uneconomical to market; • our pilot plant manufacturing facility will fail to continue to pass regulatory inspections; • proprietary rights of third-parties will prevent us or our collaborators from exploiting technologies, manufacturing or marketing products; and • third-party competitors will gain greater market share due to superior products or marketing capabilities. We have not completed the development of vaccine products and we may not succeed in obtaining the FDA approval necessary to sell additional products. The development, manufacture and marketing of our pharmaceutical and biological products are subject to government regulation in the United States and other countries. In the United States and most foreign countries, we must complete rigorous pre-clinical testing and extensive clinical trials that demonstrate the safety and efficacy of a product in order to apply for regulatory approval to market the product. None of our vaccine products have yet gained regulatory approval in the United States or elsewhere. We also have product candidates in clinical trials and pre-clinical laboratory or animal studies. The steps required by the FDA before our proposed investigational products may be marketed in the United States include: • performance of pre-clinical (animal and laboratory) tests; 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS • submissions to the FDA of an IND which must become effective before clinical trials may commence; • performance of adequate and well-controlled clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the investigational product in the intended target population; • performance of a consistent and reproducible manufacturing process intended for commercial use, including appropriate manufacturing data and regulatory inspections; • submission to the FDA of a BLA or a NDA; and • FDA approval of the BLA or NDA before any commercial sale or shipment of the product. The processes are expensive and can take many years to complete, and we may not be able to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our products to the satisfaction of regulatory authorities. The start of clinical trials can be delayed or take longer than anticipated for many and varied reasons, many of which are out of our control. Safety concerns may emerge that could lengthen the ongoing trials or require additional trials to be conducted. Regulatory authorities may also require additional testing, and we may be required to demonstrate that our proposed products represent an improved form of treatment over existing therapies, which we may be unable to do without conducting further clinical trials. Moreover, if the FDA or foreign regulatory body grants regulatory approval of a product, the approval may be limited to specific indications or limited with respect to its distribution. Expanded or additional indications for approved products may not be approved, which could limit our revenue. Foreign regulatory authorities may apply similar limitations or may refuse to grant any approval. Consequently, even if we believe that pre-clinical and clinical data are sufficient to support regulatory approval for our product candidates, the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities may not ultimately grant approval for commercial sale in any jurisdiction. If our vaccine candidates are not approved, our ability to generate revenue will be limited and our business will be adversely affected. If we are unable to manufacture our vaccines in sufficient quantities, at sufficient yields or are unable to obtain regulatory approvals for a manufacturing facility for our vaccines, we may experience delays in product development, clinical trials, regulatory approval and commercial distribution. Completion of our clinical trials and commercialization of our vaccine product candidates require access to, or development of, facilities to manufacture our product candidates at sufficient yields and at commercial scale. We have limited experience manufacturing any of our product candidates in the volumes that will be necessary to support large-scale clinical trials or commercial sales. Efforts to establish capabilities may not meet initial expectations as to scheduling, scale-up, reproducibility, yield, purity, cost, potency or quality. If we are unable to manufacture our product candidates in clinical quantities or, when necessary, in commercial quantities and at sufficient yields, then we must rely on third-parties. Other third-party manufacturers must also receive FDA approval before they can produce clinical material or commercial products. Our vaccines may be in competition with other products for access to these facilities and may be subject to delays in manufacture if third-parties give other products greater priority. We may not be able to enter into any necessary third-party manufacturing arrangements on acceptable terms, or on a timely basis. In addition, we have to enter into technical transfer agreements and share our know-how with the third-party manufacturers, which can be time-consuming and may result in delays. Influenza vaccines are intensely seasonal in nature. If a vaccine is not available early enough in the influenza season, we would likely have difficulty selling the vaccine. Further, pandemic outbreaks present only short-term opportunities for the Company. There is no way to predict when there will be a pandemic outbreak, the strain of the influenza or how long the pandemic will last. For these reasons, any delay in the delivery of an influenza vaccine could result in lower sales volumes, lower sale prices, or no sales. Because the strain of the seasonal influenza changes annually, inventory of seasonal vaccine cannot be sold during a subsequent influenza season. Any delay in the manufacture of our influenza vaccines could adversely affect our ability to sell the vaccines. 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our reliance on contract manufacturers may adversely affect our operations or result in unforeseen delays or other problems beyond our control. Because of contractual restraints and the limited number of third-party manufacturers with the expertise, required regulatory approvals and facilities to manufacture our bulk vaccines on a commercial scale, replacement of a manufacturer may be expensive and time-consuming and may cause interruptions in the production of our vaccine. A third-party manufacturer may also encounter difficulties in production. These problems may include: • difficulties with production costs, scale-up and yields; • availability of raw materials and supplies; • quality control and assurance; • shortages of qualified personnel; • compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations that vary in each country where product might be sold; and • lack of capital funding. As a result, any delay or interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our vaccine products may contain adventitious agents. Because our vaccines are produced in animal cell substrates, there are risks that infectious diseases that are unique to the animal substrates can be transmitted to human recipients. The FDA seeks to ensure that vaccine products do not contain adventitious agents or, if they do, that such adventitious agents create a benefit to the vaccine and are not harmful to the recipient. Identifying that adventitious agents in vaccines are not present or, if they are present, that they are not harmful is potentially difficult and expensive. Even with significant testing, we may not be able to demonstrate to the FDA that our vaccines are either free of adventitious agents or that any adventitious agents that do occur are beneficial to the vaccine and harmless to the recipient. We must identify products and product candidates for development with our VLP technology and establish successful third-party relationships. The near and long-term viability of our vaccine product candidates will depend in part on our ability to successfully establish new strategic collaborations with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, non-profit organizations and government agencies. Establishing strategic collaborations and obtaining government funding is difficult and time-consuming. Potential collaborators may reject collaborations based upon their assessment of our financial, regulatory or intellectual property position or based on their internal pipeline; government agencies may reject contract or grant applications based on their assessment of public need, the public interest, our products’ ability to address these areas, or other reasons beyond our expectations or control. If we fail to establish a sufficient number of collaborations or government relationships on acceptable terms, we may not be able to commercialize our vaccine product candidates or generate sufficient revenue to fund further research and development efforts. Even if we establish new collaborations or obtain government funding, these relationships may never result in the successful development or commercialization of any vaccine product candidates for several reasons, including the fact that: • we may not have the ability to control the activities of our partner and cannot provide assurance that they will fulfill their obligations to us, including with respect to the license, development and commercialization of products and product candidates, in a timely manner or at all; • such partners may not devote sufficient resources to our products and product candidates or properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights; 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS • any failure on the part of our partners to perform or satisfy their obligations to us could lead to delays in the development or commercialization of our products and product candidates, and affect our ability to realize product revenue; and • disagreements, including disputes over the ownership of technology developed with such collaborators, could result in litigation, which would be time-consuming and expensive, and may delay or terminate research and development efforts, regulatory approvals, and commercialization activities. Our collaborators will be subject to the same regulatory approval of their manufacturing facility and process as Novavax. Before we could begin commercial manufacturing of any of our product candidates, we and our collaborators must pass a pre-approval inspection before FDA approval and comply with the FDA’s cGMP. If our collaborators fail to comply with these requirements, our product candidates would not be approved. If our collaborators fail to comply with these requirements after approval, we would be subject to possible regulatory action and may be limited in the jurisdictions in which we are permitted to sell our products. If we or our partners fail to maintain our existing agreements or in the event we fail to establish agreements as necessary, we could be required to undertake research, development manufacturing and commercialization activities solely at our own expense. These activities would significantly increase our capital requirements and, given our lack of sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, significantly delay the commercialization of products and product candidates. Because we depend on third-parties to conduct some of our laboratory testing, clinical trials, and manufacturing, we may encounter delays in or lose some control over our efforts to develop products. We are dependent on third-party research organizations to conduct some of our laboratory testing, clinical trials and manufacturing activities. If we are unable to obtain any necessary services on acceptable terms, we may not complete our product development efforts in a timely manner. We may lose some control over these activities and become too dependent upon these parties. These third-parties may not complete testing or manufacturing activities on schedule, within budget, or when we request. We may not be able to secure and maintain suitable research organizations to conduct our laboratory testing, clinical trials and manufacturing activities. We have not manufactured any of our product candidates at a commercial level and may need to identify additional third-party manufacturers to scale-up and manufacture our products. We are responsible for confirming that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with its general investigational plan and protocol. Moreover, the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies require us to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices, for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the trial participants are adequately protected. The FDA and foreign regulatory agencies also require us to comply with good manufacturing practices. Our reliance on third-parties does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. If these third-parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines, if the third-parties need to be replaced or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised or the product they manufacture is contaminated due to the failure to adhere to our clinical and manufacturing protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our pre-clinical development activities of clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval of, or commercially manufacture, our product candidates. Our collaborations may not be profitable. We have entered into a co-marketing agreement with GEHC for a pandemic influenza vaccine solution for select international countries. The collaboration incorporates GEHC’s bioprocess solutions and design expertise with Novavax’s VLP manufacturing platform. We have formed a joint venture with Cadila in India. In connection with this joint venture, we agreed to a Master Services Agreement under which we currently are obligated to purchase $7.4 million of services from Cadila or pay Cadila all or a portion of the shortfall before March 2012. We have entered into a license agreement with LGLS that allows them to use our 22 TABLE OF CONTENTS manufacturing and production technology to develop and sell our influenza vaccines. We cannot predict when, if at all, these relationships will lead to approved products, sales, or otherwise provide revenue to the Company or become profitable. We have limited marketing capabilities, and if we are unable to enter into collaborations with marketing partners or develop our own sales and marketing capability, we may not be successful in commercializing any approved products. We currently have no sales, marketing or distribution capabilities. As a result, we will depend on collaborations with third-parties that have established distribution systems and sales forces. To the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other licensing arrangements, our revenue will depend upon the efforts of third-parties, over which we may have little or no control. If we are unable to reach and maintain agreements with one or more pharmaceutical companies or collaborators, we may be required to market our products directly. Developing a marketing and sales force is expensive and time-consuming and could delay a product launch. We cannot be certain that we will be able to attract and retain qualified sales personnel or otherwise develop this capability. Our product candidates may never achieve market acceptance even if we obtain regulatory approvals. Even if we receive regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of our product candidates, the commercial success of these product candidates will depend on, among other things, their acceptance by physicians, patients, third-party payers such as health insurance companies and other members of the medical community as a vaccine and cost-effective alternative to competing products. If our product candidates fail to gain market acceptance, we may be unable to earn sufficient revenue to continue our business. Market acceptance of, and demand for, any product that we may develop and commercialize will depend on many factors, including: • our ability to provide acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy; • the prevalence and severity of adverse side effects; • whether our vaccines are differentiated from other vaccines based on immunogenicity; • availability, relative cost and relative efficacy of alternative and competing treatments; • the effectiveness of our marketing and distribution strategy; • publicity concerning our products or competing products and treatments; and • our ability to obtain sufficient third-party insurance coverage or reimbursement. In particular, there are significant challenges to market acceptance for seasonal influenza vaccines. For our seasonal vaccine to be accepted in the market, we must demonstrate differentiation from other seasonal vaccines that are currently approved and marketed. This can mean that the vaccine is more effective in certain populations, such as the elderly, or cheaper and quicker to produce. There are no assurances that our vaccine will be more efficacious than other vaccines. If our product candidates do not become widely accepted by physicians, patients, third-party payers and other members of the medical community, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. If reforms in the health care industry make reimbursement for our potential products less likely, the market for our potential products will be reduced, and we could lose potential sources of revenue. Our success may depend, in part, on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs of vaccines will be available from third-party payers such as government health administration authorities, private health insurers, managed care programs and other organizations. Over the past decade, the cost of health care has risen significantly, and there have been numerous proposals by legislators, regulators and third-party health care payers to curb these costs. Some of these proposals have involved limitations on the amount of reimbursement for certain products. Similar federal or state health care legislation may be adopted in the future and any products that we or our collaborators seek to commercialize may not be considered cost-effective. Adequate 23 TABLE OF CONTENTS third-party insurance coverage may not be available for us to establish and maintain price levels that are sufficient for realization of an appropriate return on our investment in product development. Moreover, the existence or threat of cost control measures could cause our corporate collaborators to be less willing or able to pursue research and development programs related to our product candidates. REGULATORY RISKS We may fail to obtain regulatory approval for our products on a timely basis or comply with our continuing regulatory obligations after approval is obtained. Delays in obtaining regulatory approval can be extremely costly in terms of lost sales opportunities, losing any potential marketing advantage of being early to market and increased trial costs. The speed with which we begin and complete our pre-clinical studies necessary to begin clinical trials, clinical trials and our applications for marketing approval will depend on several factors, including the following: • our ability to manufacture or obtain sufficient quantities of materials for use in necessary pre-clinical studies and clinical trials; • prior regulatory agency review and approval; • Institutional Review Board approval of the protocol and the informed consent form; • the rate of subject or patient enrollment and retention, which is a function of many factors, including the size of the subject or patient population, the proximity of subjects and patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the trial and the nature of the protocol; • negative test results or side effects experienced by trial participants; • analysis of data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical activities, which are susceptible to varying interpretations and which interpretations could delay, limit or prevent further studies or regulatory approval; • the availability of skilled and experienced staff to conduct and monitor clinical trials and to prepare the appropriate regulatory applications; and • changes in the policies of regulatory authorities for drug or vaccine approval during the period of product development. We have limited experience in conducting and managing the pre-clinical studies and clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory marketing approvals. We may not be permitted to continue or commence additional clinical trials. We also face the risk that the results of our clinical trials may be inconsistent with the results obtained in pre-clinical studies or clinical trials of similar products, or that the results obtained in later phases of clinical trials may be inconsistent with those obtained in earlier phases. A number of companies in the biopharmaceutical and product development industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after experiencing promising results in early animal and human testing. Regulatory agencies may require us or our collaborators to delay, restrict or discontinue clinical trials on various grounds, including a finding that the subjects or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. In addition, we or our collaborators may be unable to submit applications to regulatory agencies within the time frame we currently expect. Once submitted, applications must be approved by various regulatory agencies before we or our collaborators can commercialize the product described in the application. All statutes and regulations governing the conduct of clinical trials are subject to change in the future, which could affect the cost of such clinical trials. Any unanticipated costs or delays in our clinical trials could delay our ability to generate revenue and harm our financial condition and results of operations. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions would prevent us from marketing our products internationally. We intend to have our product candidates marketed outside the United States. In furtherance of this objective, we have entered into relationships with Cadila in India and LGLS in South Korea. In order to market our products in the European Union, India, Asia and many other non-United States jurisdictions, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. 24 TABLE OF CONTENTS The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing and data review. The time required to obtain foreign regulatory approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by a regulatory agency, such as the FDA, does not ensure approval by any other regulatory agencies, for example in other foreign countries. However, a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one jurisdiction may have a negative effect on the regulatory approval process in other jurisdictions, including approval by the FDA. The failure to obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions could harm our business. Even if regulatory approval is received for our product candidates, the later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions, including withdrawal of the product from the market. Even if a product gains regulatory approval, such approval is likely to limit the indicated uses for which it may be marketed, and the product and the manufacturer of the product will be subject to continuing regulatory review, including adverse event reporting requirements and the FDA’s general prohibition against promoting products for unapproved uses. Failure to comply with any post-approval requirements can, among other things, result in warning letters, product seizures, recalls, substantial fines, injunctions, suspensions or revocations of marketing licenses, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions. Any of these enforcement actions, any unanticipated changes in existing regulatory requirements or the adoption of new requirements, or any safety issues that arise with any approved products, could adversely affect our ability to market products and generate revenue and thus adversely affect our ability to continue our business. We also may be restricted or prohibited from marketing or manufacturing a product, even after obtaining product approval, if previously unknown problems with the product or its manufacture are subsequently discovered and we cannot provide assurance that newly discovered or developed safety issues will not arise following any regulatory approval. With the use of any vaccine by a wide patient population, serious adverse events may occur from time to time that initially do not appear to relate to the vaccine itself, and only if the specific event occurs with some regularity over a period of time does the vaccine become suspect as having a causal relationship to the adverse event. Any safety issues could cause us to suspend or cease marketing of our approved products, possibly subject us to substantial liabilities, and adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and our financial condition. Because we are subject to environmental, health and safety laws, we may be unable to conduct our business in the most advantageous manner. We are subject to various laws and regulations relating to safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices, the experimental use of animals, emissions and wastewater discharges, and the use and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances used in connection with our research, including infectious disease agents. We also cannot accurately predict the extent of regulations that might result from any future legislative or administrative action. Any of these laws or regulations could cause us to incur additional expense or restrict our operations. Our facility in Maryland is subject to various local, state and federal laws and regulations relating to safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices, the experimental use of animals and the use and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances, including chemicals, microorganisms and various hazardous compounds used in connection with our research and development activities. In the United States, these laws include the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Toxic Test Substances Control Act and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge or injury from these materials. Federal, state, and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials. We could be subject to civil damages in the event of an improper or unauthorized release of, or exposure of individuals to, these hazardous materials. In addition, claimants may sue us for injury or contamination that results from our use or the use by third-parties of these materials, and our liability may exceed our total assets. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development or production efforts. 25 TABLE OF CONTENTS Although we have general liability insurance, these policies contain exclusions from insurance against claims arising from pollution from chemical or pollution from conditions arising from our operations. Our collaborators are working with these types of hazardous materials in connection with our collaborations. In the event of a lawsuit or investigation, we could be held responsible for any injury we or our collaborators cause to persons or property by exposure to, or release of, any hazardous materials. However, we believe that we are currently in compliance with all applicable environmental and occupational health and safety regulations. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RISKS Our success depends on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology. Our success in large part depends on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology and other trade secrets. To do so, we must prosecute and maintain existing patents, obtain new patents and pursue trade secret and other intellectual property protection. We also must operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third-parties or allowing third-parties to infringe our rights. We currently have or have rights to over 105 United States patents and corresponding foreign patents and patent applications covering our technologies. However, patent issues relating to pharmaceuticals and biologics involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions. To date, no consistent policy has emerged regarding the breadth of biotechnology patent claims that are granted by the United States Patent and Trademark Office or enforced by the federal courts. Therefore, we do not know whether our patent applications will result in the issuance of patents, or that any patents issued to us will provide us with any competitive advantage. We also cannot be sure that we will develop additional proprietary products that are patentable. Furthermore, there is a risk that others will independently develop or duplicate similar technology or products or circumvent the patents issued to us. There is a risk that third-parties may challenge our existing patents or claim that we are infringing their patents or proprietary rights. We could incur substantial costs in defending patent infringement suits or in filing suits against others to have their patents declared invalid or claim infringement. It is also possible that we may be required to obtain licenses from third-parties to avoid infringing third-party patents or other proprietary rights. We cannot be sure that such third-party licenses would be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain required third-party licenses, we may be delayed in or prohibited from developing, manufacturing or selling products requiring such licenses. Although our patent filings include claims covering various features of our products and product candidates, including composition, methods of manufacture and use, our patents do not provide us with complete protection against the development of competing products. Some of our know-how and technology is not patentable. To protect our proprietary rights in unpatentable intellectual property and trade secrets, we require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. If we infringe or are alleged to infringe the intellectual property rights of third-parties, it will adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our research, development and commercialization activities, including any product candidates or products resulting from these activities, may infringe or be claimed to infringe patents owned by third-parties and to which we do not hold licenses or other rights. There may be rights we are not aware of, including applications that have been filed but not published that, when issued, could be asserted against us. These third-parties could bring claims against us, and that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successful against us, could cause us to pay substantial damages. Further, if a patent infringement suit were brought against us, we could be forced to stop or delay research, development, manufacturing or sales of the product or biologic drug candidate that is the subject of the suit. As a result of patent infringement claims, or in order to avoid potential claims, we may choose or be required to seek a license from the third-party. These licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we are able to obtain a license, the license would likely obligate us to pay license fees or royalties or both, and the rights granted to us might be non-exclusive, which could result in our competitors gaining access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product, or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations, if, as a result of actual or threatened patent 26 TABLE OF CONTENTS infringement claims, we are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. All of the issues described above could also impact our collaborators, which would also impact the success of the collaboration and therefore us. There has been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. In addition to infringement claims against us, we may become a party to other patent litigation and other proceedings, including interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office and opposition proceedings in the European Patent Office, regarding intellectual property rights with respect to our products and technology. We may become involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents or the patents of our collaborators or licensors, which could be expensive and time-consuming. Competitors may infringe our patents or the patents of our collaborators or licensors. As a result, we may be required to file infringement claims to counter infringement for unauthorized use. This can be expensive, particularly for a company of our size, and time-consuming. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover its technology. An adverse determination of any litigation or defense proceedings could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at the risk of not issuing. Interference proceedings brought by the United States Patent and Trademark Office may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our patent applications or those of our collaborators or licensors. Litigation or interference proceedings may fail and, even if successful, may result in substantial costs and distraction to our management. We may not be able, alone or with our collaborators and licensors, to prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect such rights as fully as in the United States. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, during the course of this kind of litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If investors perceive these results to be negative, the market price for our common stock could be significantly harmed. We may need to license intellectual property from third-parties and, if our right to use the intellectual property we license is affected, our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates may be harmed. We expect that we will need to license intellectual property from third-parties in the future and that these licenses will be material to our business. We will not own the patents or patent applications that underlie these licenses, and we will not control the enforcement of the patents. We will rely upon our licensors to properly prosecute and file those patent applications and prevent infringement of those patents. Our license agreement with Wyeth, which gives us rights to a family of patent applications covering VLP technology for use in human vaccines in certain fields of use, is non-exclusive. These applications are very significant to our business. If each milestone is achieved for any particular product candidate, we would be obligated to pay an aggregate of $14 million to Wyeth for each product candidate developed and commercialized under the agreement. Achievement of each milestone is subject to many risks, including those described in these “Risk Factors.” Annual license maintenance fees under the Wyeth agreement aggregate to $0.2 million per year. Our license with UMMS gives us exclusive rights to develop and commercialize vaccines incorporating certain virus-like particles for use in human vaccines. While many of the licenses under which we have rights provide us with rights in specified fields, the scope of our rights under these and other licenses may be subject to dispute by our licensors or third-parties. In addition, our rights to use these technologies and practice the inventions claimed in the licensed patents and patent applications are subject to our licensors abiding by the terms of those licenses and not terminating 27 TABLE OF CONTENTS them. Any of our licenses may be terminated by the licensor if we are in breach of a term or condition of the license agreement, or in certain other circumstances. Our product candidates and potential product candidates will require several components that may each be the subject of a license agreement. The cumulative license fees and royalties for these components may make the commercialization of these product candidates uneconomical. If patent laws or the interpretation of patent laws change, our competitors may be able to develop and commercialize our discoveries. Important legal issues remain to be resolved as to the extent and scope of available patent protection for biopharmaceutical products and processes in the United States and other important markets outside the United States, such as Europe and Japan. Foreign markets may not provide the same level of patent protection as provided under the United States patent system. We expect that litigation or administrative proceedings will likely be necessary to determine the validity and scope of certain of our and others’ proprietary rights. Any such litigation or proceeding may result in a significant commitment of resources in the future and could force us to do one or more of the following: cease selling or using any of our products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property, which would adversely affect our revenue; obtain a license from the holder of the intellectual property right alleged to have been infringed, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; and redesign our products to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of third-parties, which may be time-consuming or impossible to do. In addition, changes in, or different interpretations of, patent laws in the United States and other countries may result in patent laws that allow others to use our discoveries or develop and commercialize our products. We cannot provide assurance that the patents we obtain or the unpatented technology we hold will afford us significant commercial protection. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK AND ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE Because our stock price has been and will likely continue to be highly volatile, the market price of our common stock may be lower or more volatile than expected. Our stock price has been highly volatile. The stock market in general and the market for biopharmaceutical companies in particular have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. From January 1, 2010 through December 31, 2010, the closing price of our common stock has been as low as $2.01 per share and as high as $3.02 per share. The market price of our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including: • future announcements about our Company or our collaborators or competitors, including the results of testing, technological innovations or new commercial products; • clinical trial results; • depletion of our cash reserves; • sale of equity securities or issuance of additional debt; • announcement by us of significant strategic partnerships, collaborations, joint ventures, capital commitments or acquisitions; • changes in government regulations; • developments in our relationships with our collaboration partners; • announcements relating to health care reform and reimbursement levels for new vaccines; • sales of substantial amounts of our stock by existing stockholders (including stock by insiders or 5% stockholders); • development, spread or new announcements related to pandemic influenza; • litigation; • public concern as to the safety of our products; • significant set-backs or concerns with the industry or the market as a whole; 28 TABLE OF CONTENTS • regulatory inquiries, reviews and potential action, including from the FDA or the SEC; and • the other factors described in this “Risk Factors” section. The stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market price for many emerging and biopharmaceutical companies. These fluctuations have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the market price of our common stock to be lower or more volatile than expected. We have never paid dividends on our capital stock, and we do not anticipate paying any such dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock. We currently anticipate that we will retain all of our earnings for use in the development of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock would be the only source of gain for stockholders until dividends are paid, if at all. Provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws, Delaware law, and our Shareholder Rights Plan could delay or prevent the acquisition of the Company, even if such acquisition would be beneficial to stockholders, and could impede changes in our Board. Our organizational documents could hamper a third-party’s attempt to acquire, or discourage a third-party from attempting to acquire control of, the Company. We also have adopted a shareholder rights plan, or “poison pill,” that empowers our Board to delay or negotiate, and thereby possibly thwart, any tender offer or takeover attempt the Board opposes. Stockholders who wish to participate in these transactions may not have the opportunity to do so. These provisions also could limit the price investors are willing to pay in the future for our securities and make it more difficult to change the composition of our Board in any one year. These provisions include the right of the Board to issue preferred stock with rights senior to those of common stock without any further vote or action by stockholders, the existence of a staggered Board with three classes of directors serving staggered three-year terms and advance notice requirements for stockholders to nominate directors and make proposals. The Company also is afforded the protections of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which will prevent us from engaging in a business combination with a person who acquires at least 15% of our common stock for a period of three years from the date such person acquired such common stock, unless advance board or stockholder approval was obtained. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our Board of Director or management could deter potential acquirers or prevent the completion of a transaction in which our stockholders could receive a substantial premium over the then current market price for their shares. 