Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating our business. There are a number of risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those that are indicated by forward-looking statements. Some of the risks described relate principally to our business and the industry in which we operate. Others relate principally to the securities market and ownership of our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. You should also consider the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We have a history of losses and our future profitability is uncertain. Our expenses have exceeded our revenues since our formation in 1987, and our accumulated deficit at December 31, 2006 was $165.0 million. Our net revenues for the last three fiscal years were $4.7 million in 2006, $7.4 million in 2005 and $8.3 million in 2004. We have received a limited amount of product-related revenue from research contracts, licenses and agreements to provide vaccine products, services and adjuvant technologies. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in entering into strategic alliances or collaborative arrangements with other companies that will result in other significant revenues to offset our expenses. Our net losses for the last three fiscal years were $23.1 million in 2006, $11.2 million in 2005 and $25.9 million in 2004. Our historical losses have resulted from research and development expenses for our vaccine and drug delivery product candidates and sales and marketing expenses for ESTRASORB, protection of our intellectual property and other general operating expenses. Our losses increased due to the launch of ESTRASORB as we expanded our manufacturing capacity and sales and marketing capabilities. More recently, our losses have increased, and will continue to increase, as a result of higher research and development efforts to support the development of our pandemic and seasonal influenza vaccines. We expect to continue to incur significant operating expenses and anticipate that our expenses and losses will increase in the foreseeable future as we seek to: • initiate Phase I/II clinical trials for our pandemic and seasonal flu vaccines; • initiate additional preclinical studies for other product candidates using our VLP vaccine technology platform; • expand our manufacturing capacity, which will require that we build-out a portion of our research and development space as a Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, compliant and validated product manufacturing facility; • relocate some of our business operations to a newly leased facility; • maintain, expand and protect our intellectual property portfolio; • hire additional clinical, quality control, scientific and management personnel; and • add operations, financial, accounting, facilities engineering and information systems personnel, consistent with expanding our operations. As a result, we expect our cumulative operating loss to increase until such time, if ever, product sales, licensing fees, royalties, milestones, contract research and other sources generate sufficient revenue to fund our continuing 11 operations. We cannot predict when, if ever, we might achieve profitability and cannot be certain that we will be able to sustain profitability, if achieved. We have repositioned ourselves from a specialty pharmaceutical company and face all the risks inherent in the implementation of a new business strategy. In conjunction with the sale of our prenatal and related product lines coupled with the grant of an exclusive North American license to Esprit Pharma, Inc. to our lead product ESTRASORB during the second half of 2005, we have changed the focus of the Company from the development and commercialization of specialty pharmaceutical products to the research and development of new products using our proprietary drug delivery and biological platforms. We cannot predict whether we will be successful in implementing our new business strategy. We intend to focus our research and development activities on areas in which we have particular strengths and on technologies that appear promising. These technologies often are on the cutting edge of modern science. As a result, the outcome of any research or development program is highly uncertain. Only a small fraction of these programs ultimately result in commercial products or even product candidates and a number of events could delay our development efforts and negatively impact our ability to obtain regulatory approval for, and to market and sell, a product candidate. Product candidates that initially appear promising often fail to yield successful products. In many cases, preclinical or clinical studies will show that a product candidate is not efficacious or that it raises safety concerns or has other side effects that outweigh their intended benefit. Success in preclinical or early clinical trials may not translate into success in large-scale clinical trials. Further, success in clinical trials will likely lead to increased investment, adversely affecting short-term profitability, to bring such products to market. Even after a product is approved and launched, general usage or post-marketing studies may identify safety or other previously unknown problems with the product, which may result in regulatory approvals being suspended, limited to narrow indications or revoked, or which may otherwise prevent successful commercialization. We have limited financial resources and we are not certain that we will be able to maintain our operations or to fund the development of future products. We do not expect to generate revenues from product sales, licensing fees, royalties, milestones, contract research or other sources in an amount sufficient to fund our operations, and we will therefore use our cash resources and expect to require additional funds to maintain our operations, continue our research and development programs, commence future preclinical studies and clinical trials, seek regulatory approvals and manufacture and market our products. We will seek such additional funds through public or private equity or debt financings, collaborative arrangements and other sources. We cannot be certain that adequate additional funding will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. If we cannot raise the additional funds required for our anticipated operations, we may be required to delay significantly, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs, downsize our general and administrative infrastructure, or seek alternative measures to avoid insolvency, including arrangements with collaborative partners or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, product candidates or products. If we raise additional funds through future offerings of shares of our common stock or other securities, such offerings would cause dilution of existing stockholders’ percentage ownership in the Company. These future offerings also could have a material and adverse effect on the price of common stock. Many of our competitors have significantly greater resources and experience, which may negatively impact our commercial opportunities and those of our current and future licensees. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are subject to intense competition and rapid and significant technological change. We have many potential competitors, including major drug and chemical companies, specialized biotechnology firms, academic institutions, government agencies and private and public research institutions. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial and technical resources, experience and expertise in: • research and development; • preclinical testing; 12 • designing and implementing clinical trials; • regulatory processes and approvals; • production and manufacturing; and • sales and marketing of approved products. Principal competitive factors in our industry include: • the quality and breadth of an organization’s technology; • management of the organization and the execution of the organization’s strategy; • the skill of an organization’s employees and its ability to recruit and retain skilled employees; • an organization’s intellectual property portfolio; • the range of capabilities, from target identification and validation to drug discovery and development to manufacturing and marketing; and • the availability of substantial capital resources to fund discovery, development and commercialization activities. Large and established companies such as Merck & Co., Inc., GlaxoSmithKline PLC, Novartis, Inc., Sanofi and Medimmune Inc., among others, compete in the vaccine market. In particular, these companies have greater experience and expertise in securing government contracts and grants to support their research and development efforts, conducting testing and clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals to market products, and manufacturing such products on a broad scale. Smaller or early-stage companies and research institutions may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established pharmaceutical or other companies. As these companies develop their technologies, they may develop proprietary positions, which may prevent or limit our product commercialization efforts. We will also face competition from these parties in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, and in acquiring and in-licensing technologies and products complementary to our programs or potentially advantageous to our business. If any of our competitors succeeds in obtaining approval from the FDA or other regulatory authorities for their products sooner than we do or for products that are more effective or less costly than ours, our commercial opportunity could be significantly reduced. In order to effectively compete, we will have to make substantial investments in manufacturing and sales and marketing or partner with one or more established companies. There is no assurance that we will be successful in gaining significant market share for any product or product candidate. Our technologies and products also may be rendered obsolete or noncompetitive as a result of products introduced by our competitors to the marketplace more rapidly and at a lower cost. We may have product liability exposure. The administration of drugs to humans, whether in clinical trials or after marketing clearances are obtained, can result in product liability claims. We maintain product liability insurance coverage in the total amount of $10 million for claims arising from the use of our currently marketed products and products in clinical trials prior to FDA approval. Coverage is becoming increasingly expensive, however, and we may not be able to maintain insurance at a reasonable cost. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our existing insurance coverage or obtain coverage for the use of our other products in the future. This insurance coverage and our resources may not be sufficient to satisfy liabilities resulting from product liability claims. A successful claim may prevent us from obtaining adequate product liability insurance in the future on commercially desirable items, if at all. Even if a claim is not successful, defending such a claim would be time-consuming and expensive, may damage our reputation in the marketplace, and would likely divert management’s attention. 13 If we lose or are unable to attract key management or other personnel, we may experience delays in product development. We depend on our senior executive officers as well as key scientific and other personnel. The loss of these individuals could harm our business and significantly delay or prevent the achievement of research, development or business objectives. We have not purchased key-man life insurance on any of our executive officers or key personnel, and therefore may not have adequate funds to find acceptable replacements for them. Competition for qualified employees is intense among pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and the loss of qualified employees, or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional highly skilled employees required for the expansion of our activities, could hinder our ability to complete human studies successfully and develop marketable products. We also rely from time-to-time on outside advisors who assist us in formulating our research and development and clinical strategy. We may not be able to attract and retain these individuals on acceptable terms, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have experienced significant management turnover. Our current President and Chief Executive Officer, Rahul Singhvi, assumed this responsibility in August 2005. Most of our executive officers have joined us since that time. This lack of management continuity, and the resulting lack of long-term history with our Company, could result in operational and administrative inefficiencies and added costs. If we were to experience additional turnover at the executive level, these risks would be exacerbated. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our cash flow and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. As of December 31, 2006, we had $23.2 million of outstanding indebtedness. Our substantial amount of outstanding indebtedness could have significant consequences. For example, it: • could increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • requires us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service payments on our indebtedness, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund future capital expenditures, working capital, execution of our growth strategy, research and development costs and other general corporate requirements; • could result in the acceleration of the maturity of our other financial obligations if a default under the terms of existing obligations were to occur; • could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with competitors that have less indebtedness; and • could limit our ability to obtain additional funds, even when necessary to maintain adequate liquidity. We may incur additional indebtedness for various reasons, which would increase the risks associated with our substantial leverage. The conversion of our outstanding convertible debt, and the issuance of shares of our common stock upon conversion or exercise of preferred stock and/or warrants or in future offerings would cause dilution of existing security holders’ interests in the Company and may cause the price of our common stock to go down. As of December 31, 2006, we had outstanding convertible notes in the aggregate principal amount of $22 million that as of such date were convertible into an aggregate of 4,029,304 shares of our common stock. The issuance of shares of our common stock upon conversion of such notes, as well as in connection with future capital raising activities, would cause immediate and potentially substantial equity dilution for existing stockholders and the price of our common stock could be subject to significant downward pressure. 14 We have made loans to certain of our directors, which could have a negative impact on our stock price. On March 21, 2002, pursuant to the Novavax, Inc. 1995 Stock Option Plan, the Company approved the payment of the exercise price of options by two of its directors through the delivery of full-recourse, interest-bearing promissory notes in the aggregate amount of $1,480,000. The borrowings accrue interest at 5.07% per annum and are secured by an aggregate of 261,667 shares of common stock owned by the directors. The notes were payable upon the earlier to occur of the following: (i) the date on which the director ceases for any reason to be a director of the Company (ii) in whole, or in part, to the extent of net proceeds, upon the date on which the director sells all or any portion of the pledged shares or (iii) payable in full on March 21, 2007. In May 2006, one of these directors resigned from the Company’s Board of Directors. Following his resignation the Company approved an extension of the former director’s $448,000 note. The note continues to accrue interest at 5.07% per annum and is secured by 95,000 shares of common stock owned by the former director and is payable on December 31, 2007, or earlier to the extent of the net proceeds from any sale of the pledged shares. The terms and interest rate remain unchanged for the promissory note for the active director and is due to be repaid in full on March 21, 2007. Due to heightened sensitivity in the current environment surrounding related-party transactions, these transactions could be viewed negatively in the market and our stock price could be negatively affected. Our corporate governance policies have been revised and our 2005 Stock Incentive Plan prohibits any loans or guarantees to directors, officers or employees. PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT RISKS Because our product development efforts depend on new and rapidly evolving technologies, we cannot be certain that our efforts will be successful. Our work depends on new, rapidly evolving technologies and on the marketability and profitability of innovative products. Commercialization involves risks of failure inherent in the development of products based on innovative technologies and the risks associated with drug development generally. These risks include the possibility that: • these technologies or any or all of the products based on these technologies will be ineffective or unsafe, or otherwise fail to receive necessary regulatory clearances; • the products, if safe and effective, will be difficult to manufacture on a large scale or uneconomical to market; • proprietary rights of third parties will prevent us or our collaborators from exploiting technologies or marketing products; and • third parties will market superior or equivalent products. We have not completed the development of products other than ESTRASORB and we may not succeed in obtaining the FDA approval necessary to sell additional products. The development, manufacture and marketing of our pharmaceutical and biological products are subject to government regulation in the U.S. and other countries. In the U.S. and most foreign countries, we must complete rigorous preclinical testing and extensive human clinical trials that demonstrate the safety and efficacy of a product in order to apply for regulatory approval to market the product. ESTRASORB is the only product developed by the Company to have been approved for sale in the U.S. Approval outside the U.S. may take longer or may require additional clinical trials. We also have product candidates in preclinical laboratory or animal studies. The steps required by the FDA before our proposed investigational products may be marketed in the U.S. include: • performance of preclinical (animal and laboratory) tests; 15 • submissions to the FDA or an Investigational New Drug application (“IND”) which must become effective before human clinical trials may commence; • performance of adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the investigational product in the intended target population; • performance of a consistent and reproducible manufacturing process intended for commercial use; • submission to the FDA of a Biologics License Application (“BLA”) or a New Drug Application (“NDA”); and • FDA approval of the BLA or NDA before any commercial sale or shipment of the product. The processes are expensive and can take many years to complete, and we may not be able to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our products to the satisfaction of such regulatory authorities. Regulatory authorities may also require additional testing and we may be required to demonstrate that our proposed products represents an improved form of treatment over existing therapies, which we may be unable to do so without conducting further clinical studies. Moreover, if the FDA grants regulatory approval of a product, the approval may be limited to specific indications or limited with respect to its distribution. Expanded or additional indications for approved drugs may not be approved, which could limit our revenues. Foreign regulatory authorities may apply similar limitations or may refuse to grant any approval. Consequently, even if we believe that preclinical and clinical data are sufficient to support regulatory approval for our product candidates, the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities may not ultimately grant approval for commercial sale in any jurisdiction. If our drug candidates are not approved, our ability to generate revenues may be limited and our business will be adversely affected. We must identify products and product candidates for development with our technologies and establish successful third-party relationships. Our long-term ability to generate product-related revenue depends in part on our ability to identify products and product candidates that may utilize our drug delivery and biological technologies. If internal efforts do not generate sufficient product candidates, we will need to identify third parties that wish to license our technologies for development of their products or product candidates. We may be unable to license our technologies to third parties for a number of reasons, including: • an inability to negotiate license terms that would allow us to make an appropriate return from resulting products; • an inability to identify suitable products or product candidates within, or complementary to, our areas of expertise; or • an unwillingness on the part of competitors to utilize the technologies of a competing company. Our near and long-term viability will also depend in part on our ability to successfully establish new strategic collaborations with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and government agencies. Establishing strategic collaborations and obtaining government funding is difficult and time-consuming. Potential collaborators may reject collaborations based upon their assessment of our financial, regulatory or intellectual property position; government agencies may reject contract or grant applications based on their assessment of public need, the public interest and our products’ ability to address these areas. If we fail to establish a sufficient number of collaborations or government relationships on acceptable terms, we may not generate sufficient revenue. Even if we successfully establish new collaborations or obtain government funding, these relationships may never result in the successful development or commercialization of any product candidates or the generation of any sales or royalty revenue. Reliance on such relationships also exposes us to a number of risks. We may not have the ability to control the activities of our partner and cannot assure you that they will fulfill their obligations to us, including with respect to the license, development and commercialization of products and product candidates, in a timely manner or at all. We cannot assure you that such partners will devote sufficient resources to our products and product candidates or properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights; we also can give no assurances that our partners will not utilize such rights in such a way as to invite or cause litigation. Any failure on the part of 16 our partners to perform or satisfy their obligations to us could lead to delays in the development or commercialization of products and product candidates, and affect our ability to realize product revenues. Disagreements, including disputes over the ownership of technology developed with such collaborators, could result in litigation, which would be time-consuming and expensive, and may delay or terminate research and development efforts, regulatory approvals, and commercialization activities. If we or our partners fail to maintain our existing agreements or in the event we fail to establish agreements as necessary, we could be required to undertake research, development, manufacturing and commercialization activities solely at our own expense. These activities would significantly increase our capital requirements and, given our current limited sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, significantly delay the commercialization of products and product candidates. Even though we have received governmental support in the past, we may not continue to receive support at the same level or at all. The U.S. government, through its various agencies, has provided grants to fund certain research and development efforts. There can be no assurances that the Company will continue to receive the same level of funding from the U.S. government, if at all. If we or our collaborators are unable to manufacture our products in sufficient quantities or are unable to obtain regulatory approvals for a manufacturing facility for our products, we may experience delays, and be unable to meet demand, and may lose potential revenues. Completion of our clinical trials and commercialization of our product candidates require access to, or development of, facilities to manufacture a sufficient supply of our product candidates. We have limited experience manufacturing any of our product candidates in the volumes that will be necessary to support large-scale clinical trials or commercial sales. Efforts to establish capabilities, if pursued, may not meet initial expectations as to scheduling, reproducibility, yield, purity, cost, potency or quality. If we or our collaborators are unable to manufacture our product candidates in clinical quantities or, when necessary, commercial quantities, then we will need to rely on third parties to manufacture compounds for clinical and commercial purposes. These third-party manufacturers must receive FDA approval before they can produce clinical material or commercial products. Our products may be in competition with other products for access to these facilities and may be subject to delays in manufacture if third parties give other products greater priority. In addition, we may not be able to enter into any necessary third-party manufacturing arrangements on acceptable terms, or on a timely basis. There are very few contract manufacturers who currently have the capability to produce our proposed product candidates, and the inability of any of these contract manufacturers to deliver our required quantities of product candidates on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable prices would negatively affect our operations. Before we or our collaborators can begin commercial manufacturing of any of our product candidates, we or our collaborators must obtain regulatory approval of the manufacturing facility and process. Manufacturing of our proposed product candidates must comply with the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices (“cGMP”) requirements, and non-U.S. regulatory requirements. The cGMP requirements govern quality control and documentation policies and procedures. In complying with cGMP and non-U.S. regulatory requirements, we will be obligated to expend time, money and effort in production, record keeping and quality control to assure that the product meets applicable specifications and other requirements. We or our collaborators must also pass a pre-approval inspection before FDA approval. If we or our collaborators fail to comply with these requirements, our product candidates would not be approved. If we or our collaborators fail to comply with these requirements after approval, we would be subject to possible regulatory action and may be limited in the jurisdictions in which we are permitted to sell our products. The FDA and non-U.S. regulatory authorities also have the authority to perform unannounced periodic inspections of our manufacturing facility to ensure compliance with cGMP and non- U.S. regulatory requirements. 17 We rely on a limited number of suppliers for some of our manufacturing materials. Any problems experienced by any of these suppliers could negatively affect our operations. We rely on third-party suppliers and vendors for some of the materials used in the manufacture of our product candidates. For supply of early clinical trial materials, we rely on a limited number of suppliers. Any significant problem experienced by one of our suppliers could result in a delay or interruption in the supply of materials to us until such supplier resolves the problem or an alternative source of supply is located. We have limited experience with alternative sources of raw materials. Any delay or interruption would negatively affect our operations. We have limited marketing capabilities, and if we are unable to enter into collaborations with marketing partners or develop our own sales and marketing capability, we may not be successful in commercializing any approved products. We currently have limited sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. As a result, we will depend on collaborations with third parties that have established distribution systems and sales forces. To the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other licensing arrangements, our revenues will depend upon the efforts of third parties, over which we may have little or no control. If we are unable to reach and maintain agreements with one or more pharmaceutical companies or collaborators, we may be required to market our products directly. Developing a marketing and sale force is expensive and time consuming and could delay a product launch. We cannot be certain that we will be able to attract and retain qualified sales personnel or otherwise develop this capability. If reforms in the health care industry make reimbursement for our potential products less likely, the market for our potential products will be reduced, and we will lose potential sources of revenue. Our successes may depend, in part, on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs of therapeutic products and related treatments will be available from third-party payers such as government health administration authorities, private health insurers, managed care programs, and other organizations. Over the past decade, the cost of health care has risen significantly, and there have been numerous proposals by legislators, regulators, and third-party health care payors to curb these costs. Some of these proposals have involved limitations on the amount of reimbursement for certain products. Similar federal or state health care legislation may be adopted in the future and any products that we or our collaborators seek to commercialize may not be considered cost-effective. Adequate third-party insurance coverage may not be available for us to establish and maintain price levels that are sufficient for realization of an appropriate return on our investment in product development. Moreover, the existence or threat of cost control measures could cause our corporate collaborators to be less willing or able to pursue research and development programs related to our product candidates. RISKS FROM COLLABORATION RELATIONSHIPS AND STRATEGIC ACQUISITIONS The return on our investment in ESTRASORB depends in large part on the success of our relationship with Esprit Pharma, Inc. and our ability to manufacture the product. In October 2005, we entered into a License Agreement and a Supply Agreement with Esprit Pharma Inc., (“Esprit”) for ESTRASORB. Under the License agreement, we granted Esprit exclusive rights to market ESTRASORB in North America. While our License Agreement with Esprit gives us some limited protections with respect to that company’s ESTRASORB marketing and sales efforts and, we believe, creates incentives for Esprit consistent with our own, we cannot control the amount and timing of the marketing efforts that Esprit devotes to ESTRASORB or make any assurances that Esprit’s promotion and marketing of ESTRASORB in North America will be successful. We do not have a history of working together with Esprit and cannot predict the success of the collaboration, nor can we give any assurances that Esprit will not reduce or curtail its efforts to market ESTRASORB because of factors affecting its business or operations beyond our control. Loss of Esprit as a partner in the commercialization of ESTRASORB, any dispute over the terms of our decisions regarding the License and Supply Agreements, or other adverse developments in our relationship with Esprit may harm our business and might accelerate our need for additional capital. We also can give no assurances that Esprit will be more successful than us in gaining market acceptance of ESTRASORB. Prescription trends for ESTRASORB have not met our expectations to date and Esprit will face 18 similar obstacles to gaining market share of the estrogen therapy market, including competition from large and established companies with similar estrogen therapy products. Numerous companies worldwide currently produce and sell estrogen products for clinical indications identical to those for ESTRASORB. Currently, the oral and patch product segment account for approximately 75% and 15% of the market, respectively, according to 2004 Verispan data. Wyeth commits significant resources to the sale and marketing of its product, Premarin®, in order to maintain its market leadership position. Several other companies compete in the estrogen category including Berlex Laboratories, Inc., Novartis Pharma AG and Solvay Pharmaceuticals. In particular, Solvay has introduced an alcohol-based gel product, Estrogel, which is directly competitive with ESTRASORB. These and other products sold by our competitors have all achieved a degree of market penetration superior to ESTRASORB. In addition, under the Supply Agreement, we are obligated to supply Esprit with ESTRASORB through the manufacture of the product at our manufacturing facility in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. We have only limited experience with the large capacity manufacturing required for the commercial sale of a product. Although we have validated our manufacturing methods for the product with the FDA, we will remain subject to that agency’s rules and regulations regarding cGMP, which are enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program. Compliance with such rules and regulations requires us to spend substantial funds and hire and retain qualified personnel. We face the possibility that we may not be able to meet Esprit’s supply requirements under the agreement in a timely fashion at acceptable quality, quantity and prices or in compliance with applicable regulations. If our facility fails to comply with applicable regulations, we will be forced to utilize a third party contractor to manufacture the product. We may not be able to enter into alternative manufacturing arrangements at commercially acceptable rates, if at all. Moreover, the manufacturers we use may not provide sufficient quantities of product to meet our specifications or our delivery, cost and other requirements. We must utilize our manufacturing facility for products other than ESTRASORB in order to avoid operating the facility at a loss. Currently we are manufacturing ESTRASORB at our facility in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania at a loss and it is likely we will continue to manufacture ESTRASORB at a loss until production volumes increase or we enter into additional contract manufacturing agreements with third parties to more fully utilize our manufacturing facility’s capacity. The facility is able to accommodate much greater production capacity than its current schedule, which, if more fully utilized, would offset the fixed costs related to the manufacturing process and facility. In addition, we are negotiating revisions to our agreements for packaging costs of ESTRASORB as well as our fixed lease costs for the manufacturing facility. If these negotiations result in higher packaging or lease costs for us, it may have a material adverse impact on future financial results. Our plan to use collaborations to leverage our capabilities and to grow in part through the strategic acquisition of other companies and technologies may not be successful if we are unable to integrate our partners’ capabilities or the acquired companies with our operations or if our partners’ do not meet expectations. As part of our strategy, we intend to continue to evaluate strategic partnership opportunities and consider acquiring complementary technologies and businesses. In order for our future collaboration efforts to be successful, we must first identify partners whose capabilities complement and integrate well with ours. Technologies to which we gain access may prove ineffective or unsafe. Our current agreements that grant us access to such technologies may expire and may not be renewed. Our partners may prove difficult to work with or less skilled than we originally expected. In addition, any past collaborative successes are no indication of potential future success. In order to achieve the anticipated benefits of an acquisition, we must integrate the acquired company’s business, technology and employees in an efficient and effective manner. The successful combination of companies in a rapidly changing biotechnology industry may be more difficult to accomplish than in other industries. The combination of two companies requires, among other things, integration of the companies’ respective technologies and research and development efforts. We cannot assure you that this integration will be accomplished smoothly or successfully. The difficulties of integration are increased by the necessity of coordinating geographically separated organizations and addressing possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies. The integration of certain 19 operations will require the dedication of management resource that may temporarily distract attention from the day-to-day operations of the combined companies. The business of the combined companies may also be disrupted by employee retention uncertainty and lack of focus during integration. The inability of management to integrate successfully the operations of the two companies, in particular, to integrate and retain key scientific personnel, or the inability to integrate successfully two technology platforms, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our collaboration agreements may prohibit us from conducting research in areas that may compete with our collaboration products, while our collaborators may not be limited to the same extent. This could negatively affect our ability to develop products and, ultimately, prevent us from achieving a continuing source of revenues. We anticipate that some of our corporate or academic collaborators will be conducting multiple product development efforts within each disease area that is the subject of its collaboration with us. We generally have agreed not to conduct independently, or with any third party, certain research that is competitive with the research conducted under our collaborations. Therefore, our collaborations may have the effect of limiting the areas of research that we may pursue, either alone or with others. Some of our collaborators, however, may develop, either alone or with others, products in related fields that are competitive with the products or potential products that are the subject of their collaborations with us. In addition, competing products, either developed by the collaborators or to which the collaborators have rights, may result in their withdrawing support for our product candidates. Generally under our academic collaborations, we retain the right to exclusively license any technologies developed using funding we provided. If we elect to not license a particular technology, the academic collaborator is typically free to use the technology for any purpose, including the development and commercialization of products that might compete with our products. Because we depend on third parties to conduct some of our laboratory testing and human studies, we may encounter delays in or lose some control over our efforts to develop products. We are dependent on third-party research organizations to conduct some of our laboratory testing and human studies. If we are unable to obtain any necessary testing services on acceptable terms, we may not complete our product development efforts in a timely manner. If we rely on third parties for laboratory testing and human studies, we may lose some control over these activities and become too dependent upon these parties. These third parties may not complete testing activities on schedule or when we request. We may not be able to secure and maintain suitable research organizations to conduct our laboratory testing and human studies. REGULATORY RISKS We may fail to obtain regulatory approval for our products on a timely basis or comply with our continuing regulatory obligations after approval is obtained. Delays in obtaining regulatory approval can be extremely costly in terms of lost sales opportunities and increased trial costs. The speed with which we complete our clinical trials and our applications for marketing approval will depend on several factors, including the following: • the rate of patient enrollment and retention, which is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the study and the nature of the protocol; • Institutional Review Board approval of the protocol and the informed consent form; • prior regulatory agency review and approval; • our ability to manufacture or obtain sufficient quantities of materials for use in clinical trials; • negative test results or side effects experienced by trial participants; 20 • analysis of data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities, which are susceptible to varying interpretations and which interpretations could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval; • changes in the policies of regulatory authorities for drug or vaccine approval during the period of product development; and • the availability of skilled and experienced staff to conduct and monitor clinical studies and to prepare the appropriate regulatory applications. We have limited experience in conducting and managing the preclinical studies and clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory marketing approvals. We may not be able to obtain the approvals necessary to conduct clinical trials. We also face the risk that the results of our clinical trials may be inconsistent with the results obtained in preclinical studies or that the results obtained in later phases of clinical trials may be inconsistent with those obtained in earlier phases. A number of companies in the specialty biopharmaceutical and product development industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after experiencing promising results in early animal and human testing. Furthermore, even if a product gains regulatory approval, such approval is likely to limit the indicated uses for which it may be marketed and the product and the manufacturer of the product will be subject to continuing regulatory review, including adverse event reporting requirements and the FDA’s general prohibition against promoting products for unapproved uses. Failure to comply with any post-approval requirements can, among other things, result in warning letters, product seizures, recalls, fines, injunctions, suspensions or revocations of marketing licenses, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions. Any of these enforcement actions, any unanticipated changes in existing regulatory requirements or the adoption of new requirements, or any safety issues that arise with any approved products, could adversely affect our ability to market products and generate revenues and thus adversely affect our ability to continue our business. We also may be restricted or prohibited from marketing or manufacturing a product, even after obtaining product approval, if previously unknown problems with the product or its manufacture are subsequently discovered and we cannot assure you that newly discovered or developed safety issues will not arise following any regulatory approval. With the use of any drug by a wide patient population, serious adverse events may occur from time to time that initially do not appear to relate to the drug itself, and only if the specific event occurs with some regularity over a period of time does the drug become suspect as having a casual relationship to the adverse event. Any safety issues could cause us to suspend or cease marketing of our approved products, possibly subject us to substantial liabilities, and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and our financial condition. Because we are subject to environmental, health and safety laws, we may be unable to conduct our business in the most advantageous manner. We are subject to various laws and regulations relating to safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices, the experimental use of animals, emissions and wastewater discharges, and the use and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances used in connection with our research, including infectious disease agents. We also cannot accurately predict the extent of regulations that might result from any future legislative or administrative action. Any of these laws or regulations could cause us to incur additional expense or restrict our operations. We have facilities in Maryland and Pennsylvania that are subject to various local, state and federal laws and regulations relating to safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices, the experimental use of animals and the use and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances, including chemicals, micro-organisms and various hazardous compounds used in connection with our research and development activities. In the U.S. these laws include the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Toxic Test Substances Control Act and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge or injury from these materials. Federal, state, and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials. We could be subject to civil damages in the event of an improper or unauthorized release of, or exposure of individuals to, these hazardous materials. In addition, claimants may sue us for injury or contamination that results from our use or the use by third parties of these materials, and our liability 21 may exceed our total assets. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development or production efforts. Although we have general liability insurance, these policies contain exclusions from insurance against claims arising from pollution from chemical or pollution from hazardous. Our collaborators are working with these types of hazardous materials in connection with our collaborations. In the event of a lawsuit or investigation, we could be held responsible for any injury we or our collaborators cause to persons or property by exposure to, or release of, any hazardous materials. However, we believe that we are currently in compliance with all applicable environmental and occupational health and safety regulations. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RISKS Our success depends on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology. Our success in large part depends on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology and other trade secrets, including our proprietary drug delivery and biological technologies. To do so, we must prosecute and maintain existing patents, obtain new patents and pursue trade secret and other intellectual property protection. We also must operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties or letting third parties infringe our rights. We currently have over 50 U.S. patents and corresponding foreign patents and patent applications covering our technologies. However, patent issues relating to pharmaceuticals involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions. To date, no consistent policy has emerged regarding the breadth of biotechnology patent claims that are granted by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or enforced by the federal courts. Therefore, we do not know whether our patent applications will result in the issuance of patents, or that any patents issued to us will provide us with any competitive advantage. We also cannot be sure that we will develop additional proprietary products that are patentable. Furthermore, there is a risk that others will independently develop or duplicate similar technology or products or circumvent the patents issued to us. There is a risk that third parties may challenge our existing patents or claim that we are infringing their patents or proprietary rights. We could incur substantial costs in defending patent infringement suits or in filing suits against others to have their patents declared invalid or claim infringement. It is also possible that we may be required to obtain licenses from third parties to avoid infringing third-party patents or other proprietary rights. We cannot be sure that such third-party licenses would be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain required third-party licenses, we may be delayed in or prohibited from developing, manufacturing or selling products requiring such licenses. Although our patents include claims covering various features of our products and product candidates, including composition, methods of manufacture and use, our patents do not provide us with complete protection against the development of competing products. Some of our know-how and technology is not patentable. To protect our proprietary rights in unpatentable intellectual property and trade secrets, we require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure. If we infringe or are alleged to infringe intellectual property rights of third parties, it will adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our research, development and commercialization activities, including any product candidates or products resulting from these activities, may infringe or be claimed to infringe patents owned by third parties and to which we do not hold licenses or other rights. There may rights we are not aware of, including applications that have been filed but not published that, when issued, could be asserted against us. These third parties could bring claims against us and that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successful against us, could cause us to pay substantial damages. Further, if a patent infringement suit were brought against us, we could be forced to stop or delay research, development, manufacturing or sales of the product or biologic drug candidate that is the subject of the suit. As a result of patent infringement claims, or in order to avoid potential claims, we may choose or be required to seek a license from the third party. These licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we are 22 able to obtain a license, the license would likely obligate us to pay license fees or royalties or both, and the rights granted to us might be nonexclusive, which could result in our competitors gaining access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product, or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations, if, as a result of actual or threatened patent infringement claims, we are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. All of the issues described above could also impact our collaborators, which would also impact the success of the collaboration and therefore us. There has been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. In addition to infringement claims against us, we may become a party to other patent litigation and other proceedings, including interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and opposition proceedings in the European Patent Office, regarding intellectual property rights with respect to our products and technology. We may become involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents or the patents of our collaborators or licensors, which could be expensive and time consuming. Competitors may infringe our patents or the patents of our collaborators or licensors. As a result, we may be required to file infringement claims to counter infringement for unauthorized use. This can be expensive, particularly for a company of our size, and time-consuming. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover its technology. An adverse determination of any litigation or defense proceedings could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at the risk of not issuing. Interference proceedings brought by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our patent applications or those of our collaborators or licensors. Litigation or interference proceedings may fail and, even if successful, may result in substantial costs and distraction to our management. We may not be able, alone or with our collaborators and licensors, to prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect such rights as fully as in the U.S. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, during the course of this kind of litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If investors perceive these results to be negative, the market price for our common stock could be significantly harmed. We may need to license intellectual property from third parties and if our right to use the intellectual property we license is affected, our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates may be harmed. We expect that we will need to license intellectual property from third parties in the future and that these licenses will be material to our business. We will not own the patents or patent applications that underlie these licenses and we will not control the enforcement of the patents. We will rely upon our licensors to properly prosecute and file those patent applications and prevent infringement of those patents. While many of the licenses under which we have rights provide us with exclusive rights in specified fields, the scope of our rights under these and other licenses may be subject to dispute by our licensors or third parties. In addition, our rights to use these technologies and practice the inventions claimed in the licensed patents and patent applications are subject to our licensors abiding by the terms of those licenses and not terminating them. Any of our licenses may be terminated by the licensor if we are in breach of a term or condition of the license agreement, or in certain other circumstances. Our product candidates and potential product candidates will require several components that may each be the subject of a license agreement. The cumulative license fees and royalties for these components may make the commercialization of these product candidates uneconomical. 23 If patent laws or the interpretation of patent laws change, our competitors may be able to develop and commercialize our discoveries. Important legal issues remain to be resolved as to the extent and scope of available patent protection for biotechnology products and processes in the U.S. and other important markets outside the U.S., such as Europe and Japan. Foreign markets may not provide the same level of patent protection as provided under the U.S. patent system. We expect that litigation or administrative proceedings will likely be necessary to determine the validity and scope of certain of our and others’ proprietary rights. Any such litigation or proceeding may result in a significant commitment of resources in the future and could force us to do one or more of the following: cease selling or using any of our products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property, which would adversely affect our revenue; obtain a license from the holder of the intellectual property right alleged to have been infringed, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; and redesign our products to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may be time-consuming or impossible to do. In addition, changes in, or different interpretations of, patent laws in the U.S. and other countries may result in patent laws that allow others to use our discoveries or develop and commercialize our products. We cannot assure you that the patents we obtain or the unpatented technology we hold will afford us significant commercial protection. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK AND ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE Because our stock price has been and will likely continue to be volatile, the market price of our common stock may be lower or more volatile than you expected. Our stock price has been highly volatile. The stock market in general and the market for biotechnology companies in particular have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. From January 1, 2006 through March 9, 2007, the closing price of our common stock has been as low as $2.77 per share and as high as $8.31 per share. The market price of our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including: • future announcements about our Company or our collaborators or competitors, including the results of testing, technological innovations or new commercial products; • negative regulatory actions with respect to ESTRASORB or our product candidates or regulatory approvals with respect to our competitors’ products; • depletion of our cash reserves and/or the approach of our convertible debt maturity date if additional revenues are not generated or additional capital is not raised; • changes in government regulations; • developments in our relationships with our collaboration partners; • announcements relating to health care reform and reimbursement levels for new drugs; • announcement by us of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • sales of substantial amounts of our stock by existing stockholders (including stock by insiders or 5% stockholders); • litigation; • public concern as to the safety of our products; • significant set-backs or concerns with the industry or the market as a whole; and • the other factors described in this “Risk Factor” section. The stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuation that have particularly affected the market price for many emerging and biotechnology companies. These fluctuations have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the market price of our common stock to be lower or more volatile than expected. 24 We have never paid dividends on our capital stock, and we do not anticipate paying any such dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock. We currently anticipate that we will retain all of our earnings for use in the development of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock would be the only source of gain for stockholders until dividends are paid if at all. Provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws, Delaware law, and our Shareholder Rights Plan could delay or prevent the acquisition of the Company, even if such acquisition would be beneficial to stockholders, and could impede changes in our Board. Our organizational documents could hamper a third party’s attempt to acquire, or discourage a third party from attempting to acquire control of, the Company. We have also adopted a shareholder rights plan, or “poison pill,” that empowers our Board to delay or negotiate, and thereby possibly thwart, any tender offer or takeover attempt the Board opposes. Stockholders who wish to participate in these transactions may not have the opportunity to do so. These provisions also could limit the price investors are willing to pay in the future for our securities and make it more difficult to change the composition of our Board in any one year. These provisions include the right of the Board to issue preferred stock with rights senior to those of common stock without any further vote or action by stockholders, the existence of a staggered Board with three classes of directors serving staggered three-year terms and advance notice requirements for stockholders to nominate directors and make proposals. The Company also is afforded the protections of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which will prevent us from engaging in a business combination with a person who acquires at least 15% of our common stock for a period of three years from the date such person acquired such common stock, unless advance board or stock holder approval was obtained. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our Board of Director or management could deter potential acquirers or prevent the completion of a transaction in which our stockholders could receive a substantial premium over the then current market price for their shares. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 