D. RISK FACTORS Some of the following risks relate principally to the industry in which we operate and our business in general. Other risks relate principally to the securities market and ownership of our common stock. The occurrence of any of the events described in this section could significantly and negatively affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash available for dividends or the trading price of our common stock. Industry Specific Risk Factors The cyclical nature of the tanker industry may lead to volatile changes in charter rates and vessel values which may adversely affect our earnings. If the tanker market, which has been cyclical, is depressed in the future, our earnings and available cash flow may decrease. Our ability to recharter our vessels or to sell them on the expiration or termination of their charters and the charter rates payable under our two spot market related time charters, our spot charters, or any renewal or replacement charters, will depend upon, among other things, economic conditions in the tanker market. Fluctuations in charter rates and tanker values result from changes in the supply and demand for tanker capacity and changes in the supply and demand for oil and oil products. The factors affecting the supply and demand for tankers are outside of our control, and the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions are unpredictable. The factors that influence demand for tanker capacity include: o demand for oil and oil products, o supply of oil and oil products, o regional availability of refining capacity, o global and regional economic conditions, o the distance oil and oil products are to be moved by sea, and o changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns. The factors that influence the supply of tanker capacity include: o the number of newbuilding deliveries, o the scrapping rate of older vessels, o conversion of tankers to other uses, o the number of vessels that are out of service, and o environmental concerns and regulations. Historically, the tanker markets have been volatile as a result of the many conditions and factors that can affect the price, supply and demand for tanker capacity. Changes in demand for transportation of oil over longer distances and supply of tankers to carry that oil may materially affect our revenues, profitability and cash flows. Eight of our nine vessels are currently operated in the spot market or on spot market related time charters. We cannot assure you that we will receive any minimum level of charterhire for the vessels operated in the spot market or on spot market related time charters. We will be dependent on spot charters and any decrease in spot charter rates in the future may adversely affect our earnings and our ability to pay dividends. We currently operate a fleet of nine vessels, including the vessel delivered to us in April 2006. Of those nine vessels, one is on a long term fixed-rate charter, while the other eight are employed in the spot market or on time charters with spot market related rates. We are currently also pursuing the acquisition of a tenth vessel which we would also intend to spot charter in the near term. Therefore we are highly dependent on spot market charter rates. We may enter into spot charters for any additional vessels that we may acquire in the future. Although spot chartering is common in the tanker industry, the spot charter market may fluctuate significantly based upon tanker and oil supply and demand. The successful operation of our vessels in the spot charter market depends upon, among other things, obtaining profitable spot charters and minimizing, to the extent possible, time spent waiting for charters and time spent traveling unladen to pick up cargo. The spot market is very volatile, and, in the past, there have been periods when spot rates have declined below the operating cost of vessels. We cannot assure you that future spot charters will be available at rates sufficient to enable our vessels trading in the spot market to operate profitably and to pay dividends. Normally, tanker markets are stronger in the fall and winter months (the fourth and first quarters of the calendar year) in anticipation of increased oil consumption in the northern hemisphere during the winter months. Unpredictable weather patterns and variations in oil reserves disrupt tanker scheduling. Seasonal variations in tanker demand and, as a result, in charter rates will affect any spot market related rates that we may receive. Compliance with safety, environmental and other governmental and other requirements may adversely affect our business. The shipping industry is affected by numerous regulations in the form of international conventions, national, state and local laws and national and international regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which such tankers operate, as well as in the country or countries in which such tankers are registered. These regulations include the U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage of 1969, the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the IMO International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea of 1974, or SOLAS, the International Convention on Load Lines of 1966 and the U.S. Marine Transportation Security Act of 2002, each of which imposes environmental, technical, safety, operational or financial requirements on us. In addition, vessel classification societies also impose significant safety and other requirements on our vessels. Regulation of vessels, particularly in the areas of safety and environmental impact may change in the future and may limit our ability to operate our business or require significant capital expenditures be incurred on our vessels to keep them in compliance. The value of our vessels may fluctuate and could result in a lower price of our common shares. Tanker values have generally experienced high volatility. You should expect the market value of our oil tankers to fluctuate, depending on general economic and market conditions affecting the tanker industry and competition from other shipping companies, types and sizes of vessels, and other modes of transportation. In addition, as vessels grow older, they generally decline in value. These factors will affect the value of our vessels. Declining tanker values could affect our ability to raise cash by limiting our ability to refinance our vessels, thereby adversely impacting our liquidity, or result in a breach of our loan covenants, which could result in defaults under our $300 million revolving credit facility, or the New Credit facility. If we determine at any time that a vessel's future limited useful life and earnings require us to impair its value on our financial statements, that could result in a charge against our earnings and the reduction of our shareholders' equity. Due to the cyclical nature of the tanker market, if for any reason we sell vessels at a time when tanker prices have fallen, the sale may be at less than the vessel's carrying amount on our financial statements, with the result that we would also incur a loss and a reduction in earnings. Any such reduction could result in a lower share price. Shipping is an inherently risky business involving global operations and our vessels are exposed to international risks which could reduce revenue or increase expenses. Shipping companies conduct global operations. Our vessels are at risk of damage or loss because of events such as mechanical failure, collision, human error, war, terrorism, piracy, cargo loss and bad weather. In addition, changing economic, regulatory and political conditions in some countries, including political and military conflicts, have from time to time resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways, piracy, terrorism, labor strikes and boycotts. These sorts of events could interfere with shipping routes and result in market disruptions. Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001, and other acts of violence or war may affect the financial markets and our business, results of operations and financial condition. Terrorist attacks such as the attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001 and the United States' continuing response to these attacks, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks, continue to cause uncertainty in the world financial markets, including the energy markets. The continuing conflict in Iraq may lead to additional acts of terrorism, armed conflict and civil disturbance around the world, which may contribute to further instability including in the oil markets. Terrorist attacks, such as the attack on the M.T. Limburg in Yemen in October 2002, may also negatively affect our trade patterns or other operations and directly impact our vessels or our customers. Future terrorist attacks could result in increased volatility of the financial markets in the United States and globally and could result in an economic recession in the United States or the world. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our operating results, revenue and costs. Arrests of our vessels by maritime claimants could cause a significant loss of earnings for the related off-hire period. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lienholder may enforce its lien by "arresting" or "attaching" a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could result in a significant loss of earnings for the related off-hire period. In addition, in jurisdictions where the "sister ship" theory of liability applies, a claimant may arrest the vessel which is subject to the claimant's maritime lien and any "associated" vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. In countries with "sister ship" liability laws, claims might be asserted against us or any of our vessels for liabilities of other vessels that we own. Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency, resulting in a loss of earnings. A government could requisition for title or seize our vessels. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes its owner. Also, a government could requisition our vessels for hire. Requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes its charterer at dictated charter rates. Although we, as the owner, would be entitled to compensation in the event of a requisition, the amount and timing of payment would be uncertain. Company Specific Risk Factors We cannot guarantee that we will continue to make cash distributions. We have made distributions quarterly since September 1997. It is possible that our revenues could be reduced as a result of decreases in charter rates or that we could incur other expenses or contingent liabilities that would reduce or eliminate the cash available for distribution as dividends. The Credit Facility prohibits the declaration and payment of dividends if we are in default under it. We refer you to Item 4--Information on the Company--Business Overview--Our Credit Facility for more details. In addition, the declaration and payment of dividends is subject at all times to the discretion of our Board of Directors and compliance with Bermuda law, and may be dependent upon the adoption at the annual meeting of shareholders of a resolution effectuating a reduction in our share premium in an amount equal to the estimated amount of dividends to be paid in the next succeeding year. We refer you to Item 8--Financial Information--Dividend Policy for more details. We cannot assure you that we will pay dividends at rates previously paid or at all. We may not be able to grow or to effectively manage our growth. One of our principal strategies is to continue to grow by expanding our operations and adding to our fleet. Our future growth will depend upon a number of factors, some of which may not be within our control. These factors include our ability to: o identify suitable tankers and/or shipping companies for acquisitions, o identify businesses engaged in managing, operating or owning tankers for acquisitions or joint ventures, o integrate any acquired tankers or businesses successfully with our existing operations, o hire, train and retain qualified personnel and crew to manage and operate our growing business and fleet, o identify additional new markets, o improve our operating, financial and accounting systems and controls, and o obtain required financing for our existing and new operations. Our failure to effectively identify, purchase, develop and integrate any tankers or businesses could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in November 2004, we transitioned from a bareboat charter company to an operating company. We may incur unanticipated expenses as an operating company. The number of employees of Scandic American Shipping Ltd., or the Manager, that perform services for us and our current operating and financial systems may not be adequate as we implement our plan to expand the size of our fleet, and we may not be able to require the Manager to hire more employees or adequately improve those systems. In addition, we have incurred and will continue to incur expenses associated with compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 of that Act requires public companies include in annual reports a report containing management's assessment of the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting and a related attestation of the Company's independent auditors. This requirement will first apply to us with respect to the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006. We have begun a comprehensive effort in preparation for compliance with Section 404 including the documentation, testing and review of our internal controls under the direction of our management. We cannot be certain at this time that all our controls will be considered effective. Therefore, we can give no assurances that our internal control over financial reporting will satisfy the new regulatory requirements when they become applicable to us. If our independent auditor is unable to provide us with an unqualified attestation report on a timely basis as required by Section 404, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. Finally, acquisitions may require additional equity issuances or debt issuances (with amortization payments), each of which could lower dividends per share. If we are unable to execute the points noted above, our financial condition and dividend rates may be adversely affected. We are dependent on the Manager and there may be conflicts of interest arising from the relationship between our Chairman and the Manager. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of the Manager and our management team. Our success will depend upon our and the Manager's ability to hire and retain key members of our management team. The loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition. Difficulty in hiring and retaining personnel could adversely affect our results of operations. We do not maintain "key man" life insurance on any of our officers. Herbjorn Hansson, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, is also an owner of the Manager. In addition, one of our directors is also an owner of the Manager. The Manager may engage in business activities other than with respect to the Company. The fiduciary duty of a director may compete with or be different from the interests of the Manager and may create conflicts of interest in relation to that director's duties to the Company. An increase in operating costs could adversely affect our cash flow and financial condition. Under the original bareboat charters to BP Shipping, BP Shipping was responsible for our vessels' operating and voyage costs. Under the time and spot charters of eight of our nine vessels, we are responsible for many of such costs. Our vessel operating expenses include the costs of crew, fuel (for spot chartered vessels), provisions, deck and engine stores, insurance and maintenance and repairs, which depend on a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Some of these costs, primarily relating to insurance and enhanced security measures implemented after September 11, 2001 and fuel, have been increasing. The price of fuel is near historical high levels and may increase in the future. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a drydocking facility. The costs of drydock repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. Increases in any of these costs would decrease earnings and dividends per share. Our vessels operate in the highly competitive international tanker market. The operation of tanker vessels and transportation of crude and petroleum products is extremely competitive. Competition arises primarily from other tanker owners, including major oil companies as well as independent tanker companies, some of whom have substantially greater resources. Competition for the transportation of oil and oil products can be intense and depends on price, location, size, age, condition and the acceptability of the tanker and its operators to the charterers. We will have to compete with other tanker owners, including major oil companies as well as independent tanker companies. Our market share may decrease in the future. We may not be able to compete profitably as we expand our business into new geographic regions or provide new services. New markets may require different skills, knowledge or strategies than we use in our current markets, and the competitors in those new markets may have greater financial strength and capital resources than we do. Purchasing and operating secondhand vessels may result in increased operating costs which could adversely affect our earnings and as our fleet ages, the risks associated with older vessels could adversely affect our operations. Our current business strategy includes additional growth through the acquisition of new and secondhand vessels. The ninth vessel that we took delivery of in early April 2006 is secondhand. Further, we are pursuing the acquisition of a tenth secondhand modern double-hull Suezmax tanker. While we typically inspect secondhand vessels prior to purchase, this does not provide us with the same knowledge about their condition that we would have had if these vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. Generally, we do not receive the benefit of warranties from the builders for the secondhand vessels that we acquire. In general, the costs to maintain a vessel in good operating condition increase with the age of the vessel. Older vessels are typically less fuel-efficient than more recently constructed vessels due to improvements in engine technology. Cargo insurance rates increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may require expenditures for alterations, or the addition of new equipment, to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which the vessels may engage. We cannot assure you that as our vessels age market conditions will justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. Servicing debt which we may incur in the future would limit funds available for other purposes and if we cannot service our debt, we may lose our vessels. Borrowing under the New Credit Facility requires us to dedicate a part of our cash flow from operations to paying interest on our indebtedness. These payments limit funds available for working capital, capital expenditures and other purposes, including making distributions to shareholders and further equity or debt financing in the future. Amounts borrowed under the New Credit Facility bear interest at variable rates. Increases in prevailing rates could increase the amounts that we would have to pay to our lenders, even though the outstanding principal amount remains the same, and our net income and cash flows would decrease. We expect our earnings and cash flow to vary from year to year due to the cyclical nature of the tanker industry. In addition, our current policy is not to accumulate cash, but rather to distribute our available cash to shareholders. If we do not generate or reserve enough cash flow from operations to satisfy our debt obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as: o seeking to raise additional capital, o refinancing or restructuring our debt, o selling tankers or other assets, or o reducing or delaying capital investments. However, these alternative financing plans, if necessary, may not be sufficient to allow us to meet our debt obligations. If we are unable to meet our debt obligations or if some other default occurs under the Credit Facility, the lenders could elect to declare that debt, together with accrued interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable and proceed against the collateral securing that debt, which constitutes our entire fleet and substantially all of our assets. Our New Credit Facility contains restrictive covenants which may limit our liquidity and corporate activities. The New Credit Facility imposes operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions may limit our ability to: o pay dividends and make capital expenditures if we do not repay amounts drawn under the New Credit Facility or if there is another default under the New Credit Facility, o incur additional indebtedness, including the issuance of guarantees, o create liens on our assets, o change the flag, class or management of our vessels or terminate or materially amend the management agreement relating to each vessel, o sell our vessels, o merge or consolidate with, or transfer all or substantially all our assets to, another person, or o enter into a new line of business. Therefore, we may need to seek permission from our lenders in order to engage in some corporate actions. Our lenders' interests may be different from ours and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain our lenders' permission when needed. This may limit our ability to pay dividends to you, finance our future operations or capital requirements, make acquisitions or pursue business opportunities. Shipping is an inherently risky business and our insurance may not be adequate to cover all our losses. There are a number of risks associated with the operation of ocean-going vessels, including mechanical failure, collision, human error, war, terrorism, property loss, cargo loss or damage and business interruption due to political circumstances in foreign countries, hostilities and labor strikes. Any of these events may result in loss of revenues, increased costs and decreased cash flows. In addition, the operation of any vessel is subject to the inherent possibility of marine disaster, including oil spills and other environmental mishaps, and the liabilities arising from owning and operating vessels in international trade. We cannot assure investors that our insurance will protect us against all risks. We may not be able to maintain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for our fleet in the future and the insurers may not pay particular claims. For example, a catastrophic spill could exceed our insurance coverage and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. In the past, new and stricter environmental regulations have led to higher costs for insurance covering environmental damage or pollution, and new regulations could lead to similar increases or even make this type of insurance unavailable. Furthermore, even if insurance coverage is adequate to cover our losses, we may not be able to timely obtain a replacement ship in the event of a loss. We may also be subject to calls, or premiums, in amounts based not only on our own claim records but also the claim records of all other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive indemnity insurance coverage for tort liability. Our payment of these calls could result in significant expenses to us which could reduce our cash flows and place strains on our liquidity and capital resources. Because some of our expenses are incurred in foreign currencies, we are exposed to exchange rate risks. The charterers of our vessels pay us in U.S. dollars. While we incur most of our expenses in U.S. dollars, we have in the past incurred expenses in other currencies, most notably the Norwegian Kroner. Declines in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the Norwegian Kroner, or the other currencies in which we incur expenses, would increase the U.S. dollar cost of paying these expenses and thus would adversely affect our results of operations. We may have to pay tax on United States source income, which would reduce our earnings. Under the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or the Code, 50% of the gross shipping income of a vessel owning or chartering corporation, such as ourselves, attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the U.S. will be characterized as U.S. source shipping income and such income will be subject to a 4% United States federal income tax unless that corporation is entitled to a special tax exemption under the Code which applies to the international shipping income derived by certain non-United States corporations. We believe that we currently qualify for this statutory tax exemption and we will take this position for U.S. tax return reporting purposes. However, there are several risks that could cause us to become taxed on our U.S. source shipping income. Due to the factual nature of the issues involved, we can give no assurances on our tax-exempt status. If we are not entitled to this statutory tax exemption for any taxable year, we would be subject for any such year to a 4% United States federal income tax on our U.S. source shipping income. The imposition of this tax could have a negative effect on our business and would result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our shareholders. If U.S. tax authorities were to treat us as a "passive foreign investment company," that could have adverse consequences on U.S. holders. A foreign corporation will be treated as a "passive foreign investment company" for U.S. Federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of "passive income," or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation's assets produce, or are held for the production of, such types of "passive income." For purposes of these tests, "passive income" includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute "passive income." Those holders of stock in a passive foreign investment company who are citizens or residents of the United States or domestic entities would alternatively be subject to a special adverse U.S. Federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the passive foreign investment company, the distributions they receive from the passive foreign investment company and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the passive foreign investment company. In particular, dividends paid by us would not be treated as "qualified dividend income" eligible for preferential tax rates in the hands of noncorporate U.S. shareholders. Based on our current and expected future operations, we believe that we are no longer a passive foreign investment company with respect to the taxable year 2005 and thereafter. As a result, noncorporate U.S. shareholders should be eligible to treat dividends paid by us in 2006 and thereafter as "qualified dividend income" which is subject to preferential tax rates (through 2010). Since we expect to derive more than 25% of our income each year from our time chartering and voyage chartering activities, we believe that such income will be treated for relevant U.S. Federal income tax purposes as services income, rather than rental income. Correspondingly, such income should not constitute "passive income," and the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income (which should constitute more than 50% of our assets each year), in particular our vessels, should not constitute passive assets for purposes of determining whether we are a passive foreign investment company in any taxable year. However, no assurance can be given that the Internal Revenue Service will accept this position or that we would not constitute a passive foreign investment company for any future taxable year if there were to be changes in the nature and extent of our operations. Risks Relating to Our Common Shares Our common share price may be highly volatile and future sales of our common shares could cause the market price of our common shares to decline. The market price of our common shares has historically fluctuated over a wide range and may continue to fluctuate significantly in response to many factors, such as actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, economic and regulatory trends, general market conditions, rumors and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Investors in our common shares may not be able to resell their shares at or above their purchase price due to those factors, which include the risks and uncertainties set forth in this annual report. Because we are a foreign corporation, you may not have the same rights that a shareholder in a U.S. corporation may have. We are a Bermuda exempted company. Our memorandum of association and bye-laws and The Companies Act, 1981 of Bermuda, or the Companies Act, govern our affairs. The Companies Act does not as clearly establish your rights and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors as do statutes and judicial precedent in some U.S. jurisdictions. Therefore, you may have more difficulty in protecting your interests as a shareholder in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction. There is a statutory remedy under Section 111 of the Companies Act which provides that a shareholder may seek redress in the courts as long as such shareholder can establish that our affairs are being conducted, or have been conducted, in a manner oppressive or prejudicial to the interests of some part of the shareholders, including such shareholder. However, the principles governing Section 111 have not been well developed. It may not be possible for our investors to enforce U.S. judgments against us. We are incorporated in the Islands of Bermuda. Substantially all of our assets and those of our subsidiaries are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for U.S. investors to serve process within the United States upon us or to enforce judgment upon us for civil liabilities in U.S. courts. In addition, you should not assume that courts in the countries in which we are incorporated or where our assets are located (1) would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against based upon the civil liability provisions of applicable U.S. federal and state securities laws or (2) would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us based upon these laws. 