ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our operating results may fluctuate significantly, which may adversely affect our financial condition and our stock price. Our quarterly and annual operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and we expect that they will continue to fluctuate in the future. Our results of operations are subject to fluctuations and other risks, including, among others: competitive pricing pressures, resulting in lower average selling prices and lower or negative product gross margins; expansion of supply from existing competitors and ourselves creating excess market supply, causing our average selling prices to decline faster than our costs; unpredictable or changing demand for our products, particularly for certain form factors or capacities; excess captive memory output or capacity which could result in write-downs for excess inventory, the application of lower of cost or market charges, fixed costs associated with under-utilized capacity, or other consequences; inability to maintain or grow sales through our new channels to which we are selling private label products, wafers and components or potential loss of branded product sales as a result; insufficient non-memory materials or capacity from our suppliers and contract manufacturers to meet demand; or increases in cost of non-memory materials or capacity; price increases which could result in lower unit and gigabyte demand, potentially leading to reduced revenue and/or excess inventory; less than anticipated demand, including a general economic weakness in our markets; insufficient supply from captive flash memory sources and inability to obtain non-captive flash memory supply in the time frame necessary to meet demand; increased purchases of non-captive flash memory, which typically cost more than captive flash memory and may be of less consistent quality; increased memory component and other costs as a result of currency exchange rate fluctuations to the U.S. dollar, particularly with respect to the Japanese yen; inability to adequately invest in future technologies and products while controlling operating expenses; our license and royalty revenues may fluctuate or decline significantly in the future due to license agreement renewals, non-renewals or if licensees fail to perform on a portion or all of their contractual obligations; inability to develop or unexpected difficulties or delays in developing, manufacturing with acceptable yields, or ramping, new technologies such as 32-nanometer or next generation process technology, 3-bits and 4-bits per cell NAND memory architecture, 3-Dimensional Read/Write, or 3D Read/Write, or other advanced, alternative technologies; insufficient assembly and test capacity from our Shanghai facility or our contract manufacturers or disruptions in operations at any of these facilities; difficulty in forecasting and managing inventory levels due to noncancelable contractual obligations to purchase materials, such as custom non-memory materials, and the need to build finished product in advance of customer purchase orders; timing, volume and cost of wafer production from Flash Ventures as impacted by fab start-up delays and costs, technology transitions, yields or production interruptions; disruption in the manufacturing operations of suppliers, including suppliers of sole-sourced components; potential delays in the emergence of new markets and products for NAND-based flash memory and acceptance of our products in these markets; timing of sell-through and the financial liquidity and strength of our distributors and retail customers; errors or defects in our products caused by, among other things, errors or defects in the memory or controller components, including memory and non-memory components we procure from third-party suppliers; and the other factors described under “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this report. 13 Table of Contents Competitive pricing pressures and excess supply have resulted in lower average selling prices and negative product gross margins in the past and, if we do not experience adequate price elasticity, our revenues may decline. For more than a year through 2008, the NAND flash memory industry was characterized by supply exceeding demand, which led to significant declines in average selling prices. Price declines exceeded our cost declines in fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006. Significant price declines resulted in negative product gross margins in fiscal year 2008 and the first quarter of fiscal year 2009. Price declines may be influenced by, among other factors, supply exceeding demand, macroeconomic factors, technology transitions, conversion of industry DRAM capacity to NAND and new technologies or other strategic actions taken by us or our competitors to gain market share. If our technology transitions take longer or are more costly than anticipated to complete, or our cost reductions fail to keep pace with the rate of price declines, our product gross margins and operating results will be negatively impacted, which could lead to quarterly or annual net losses. Over our history, price decreases have generally been more than offset by increased unit demand and demand for products with increased storage capacity. However, in fiscal year 2008 and the first half of 2009, price declines outpaced unit and megabyte growth resulting in reduced revenue as compared to prior comparable periods. There can be no assurance that current and future price reductions will result in sufficient demand for increased product capacity or unit sales, which could harm our revenue and margins. Price increases could reduce our overall product revenues and harm our financial position. In the first half of fiscal year 2009, we increased prices in order to improve profitability. Price increases can result in reduced growth in gigabyte demand or even an absolute reduction in gigabyte demand. For example, in the second quarter of fiscal year 2009, our average selling price per gigabyte increased 12% and our gigabytes sold decreased 7%, both on a sequential quarter basis. If we continue to raise prices in order to improve our profit margins, our product revenues may be harmed and we may have excess inventory. We require an adequate level of product gross margins to continue to invest in our business. We experienced negative product gross margins for fiscal year 2008 and the first quarter of fiscal year 2009 due to sustained aggressive industry price declines as well as inventory charges primarily due to lower of cost or market write downs. While product gross margins improved in fiscal year 2009, our ability to sustain sufficient product gross margin and profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future depends in part on industry and our supply/demand balance, our ability to reduce cost per gigabyte at an equal or higher rate than price decline per gigabyte, our ability to develop new products and technologies, the rate of growth of our target markets, the competitive position of our products, the continued acceptance of our products by our customers, and our ability to manage expenses. If we fail to maintain adequate product gross margins and profitability, our business and financial condition would be harmed and we may have to reduce, curtail or terminate certain business activities. Sales to a small number of customers represent a significant portion of our revenues, and if we were to lose one of our major licensees or customers, or experience any material reduction in orders from any of our customers, our revenues and operating results would suffer. In fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, revenues from our top 10 customers or licensees accounted for approximately 42%, 48% and 46% of our revenues. All customers were individually less than 10% of our total revenues in fiscal years 2009 and 2007. In fiscal year 2008, Samsung accounted for 13% of our total revenues through a combination of license and royalty and product revenues. The composition of our major customer base has changed over time, including shifts between OEM and retail-based customers, and we expect fluctuations to continue as our markets and strategies evolve, which could make our revenues less predictable from period-to-period. If we were to lose one of our major customers or licensees, or experience any material reduction in orders from any of our customers or in sales of licensed products by our licensees, our revenues and operating results would suffer. Our non-compliance with the contractual terms of significant customer contracts may harm the business covered under these contracts and our financial results. Additionally, our license and royalty revenues may decline significantly in the future as our existing license agreements and patents expire or if licensees fail to perform on a portion or all of their contractual obligations. As an example, we expect our license and royalty revenues will decline in fiscal year 2010 due to a new license agreement with an existing licensee at a lower effective royalty rate as compared to the previous license agreement. Our sales are generally made from standard purchase orders rather than long-term contracts. Accordingly, our customers may generally terminate or reduce their purchases from us at any time without notice or penalty. 14 Table of Contents Our revenues depend in part on the success of products sold by our OEM customers. A significant portion of our sales are to OEMs, which either bundle or embed our flash memory products with their products, such as mobile phones, GPS devices and computers. Our sales to these customers are dependent upon the OEMs choosing our products over those of our competitors and on the OEMs’ ability to create, introduce, market and sell their products successfully in their markets. Should our OEM customers be unsuccessful in selling their current or future products that include our products, or should they decide to not use our products, our results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. In 2009, we added OEMs to whom we are selling private label products, wafers and components. The sales to these OEMs could be more variable than the sales to our historical customer base, and these OEMs may be more inclined to switch to an alternative supplier based on short-term price fluctuations. Sales to these OEMs could also cause a decline in our branded product sales. In addition, we are selling certain customized products and if the intended customer does not purchase these products as scheduled, we may incur excess inventory or rework costs. Our business depends significantly upon sales through retailers and distributors, and if our retailers and distributors are not successful, we could experience reduced sales, substantial product returns or increased price protection, any of which would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant portion of our sales are made through retailers, either directly or through distributors. Sales through these channels typically include rights to return unsold inventory and protection against price declines, as well as participation in various cooperative marketing programs. As a result, we do not recognize revenue until after the product has been sold through to the end user, in the case of sales to retailers, or to our distributors’ customers, in the case of sales to distributors. Price protection against declines in our selling prices has the effect of reducing our deferred revenues and eventually, our revenues. If our retailers and distributors are not successful, due to weak consumer retail demand caused by an economic downturn, decline in consumer confidence, or other factors, we could continue to experience reduced sales as well as substantial product returns or price protection claims, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Except in limited circumstances, we do not have exclusive relationships with our retailers or distributors, and therefore, must rely on them to effectively sell our products over those of our competitors. Certain of our retail and distributor partners are experiencing financial difficulty and prolonged negative economic conditions could cause liquidity issues for our retail and distributor customers and channels. For example, two of our North American retail customers, Circuit City Stores, Inc. and Ritz Camera Centers, Inc., filed for bankruptcy protection in 2008 and 2009, respectively. Negative changes in customer credit worthiness; the ability of our customers to access credit; or the bankruptcy or shutdown of any of our significant retail or distribution partners would harm our revenue and our ability to collect outstanding receivable balances. In addition, we have certain retail customers to which we provide inventory on a consigned basis, and a bankruptcy or shutdown of these customers could preclude us from taking possession of our consigned inventory, which could result in inventory charges. The future growth of our business depends on the development and performance of new markets and products for NAND-based flash memory. Our future growth is dependent on development of new markets, new applications and new products for NAND-based flash memory. Historically, the digital camera market provided the majority of our revenues, but it is now a more mature market, and the mobile handset market has emerged as the largest segment of our revenues. Other markets for flash memory include digital audio and video players, USB drives and SSDs. We cannot assure you that the use of flash memory in mobile handsets or other existing markets and products will develop and grow fast enough, or that new markets will adopt NAND flash technologies in general or our products in particular, to enable us to grow. Our revenue and future growth is also significantly dependent on international markets, and we may face difficulties entering or maintaining sales in some international markets. Some international markets are subject to a higher degree of commodity pricing or tariffs and import taxes than in the U.S., subjecting us to increased risk of pricing and margin pressure. 15 Table of Contents Our strategy of investing in captive manufacturing sources could harm us if our competitors are able to produce products at lower costs or if industry supply exceeds demand. We secure captive sources of NAND through our significant investments in manufacturing capacity. We believe that by investing in captive sources of NAND, we are able to develop and obtain supply at the lowest cost and access supply during periods of high demand. Our significant investments in manufacturing capacity require us to obtain and guarantee capital equipment leases and use available cash, which could be used for other corporate purposes. To the extent we secure manufacturing capacity and supply that is in excess of demand, or our cost is not competitive with other NAND suppliers, we may not achieve an adequate return on our significant investments and our revenues, gross margins and related market share may be harmed. We may also incur increased inventory or impairment charges related to our captive manufacturing investments and may not be able to exit those investments without significant cost to us. For example, we recorded charges of $121 million and $63 million in fiscal year 2008 and the first quarter of fiscal year 2009, respectively, for adverse purchase commitments associated with under utilization of Flash Ventures’ capacity for the 90-day period in which we had non-cancelable production plans utilizing less than our share of Flash Ventures’ full capacity. Our business and the markets we address are subject to significant fluctuations in supply and demand and our commitments to Flash Ventures may result in periods of significant excess inventory. The start of production by Flash Alliance at the end of fiscal year 2007 and the ramp of production in fiscal year 2008 increased our captive supply and resulted in excess inventory. While we restructured and reduced our total capacity at Flash Ventures in the first quarter of fiscal year 2009, our obligation to purchase 50% of the supply or pay 50% of the costs from Flash Ventures could continue to harm our business and results of operations if our committed supply exceeds demand for our products. The adverse effects could include, among other things, significant decreases in our product prices, and significant excess, obsolete or lower of cost or market inventory write-downs, or under-utilization charges such as those we experienced in fiscal year 2008, which would harm our gross margins and could result in the impairment of our investments in Flash Ventures. We continually seek to develop new applications, products, technologies and standards, which may not be widely adopted by consumers or, if adopted, may reduce demand for our older products; and our competitors seek to develop new standards which could reduce demand for our products. We continually devote significant resources to the development of new applications, products and standards and the enhancement of existing products and standards with higher memory capacities and other enhanced features. Any new applications, products, technologies, standards or enhancements we develop may not be commercially successful. The success of new product introductions is dependent on a number of factors, including market acceptance, our ability to manage risks associated with new products and production ramp issues. New applications, such as the adoption of flash-based SSDs that are designed to replace hard disk drives in devices such as notebook and desktop computers, can take several years to develop. We cannot guarantee that manufacturers will adopt SSDs or that this market will grow as we anticipate. For the SSD market to become sizeable, the cost of flash memory must decline significantly from current levels so that the product cost for the end consumers is compelling. We believe this will require us to implement multi-level cell, or MLC, technology into our SSDs, and that will require us to develop highly capable controllers. There can be no assurance that our MLC-based SSDs will complete development, will be able to meet the specifications required to gain customer qualification and acceptance or will be delivered to the market on a timely basis. For example, in July 2009, we communicated that we were late to the market with our G3 SSD product. Other new products, such as slotMusic™, slotRadio™ and our pre-loaded flash memory cards, may not gain market acceptance, and we may not be successful in penetrating the new markets that we target. Sony’s recent announcement that it intends to transition its future devices from the Memory Stick® format to the SD format could negatively impact our market share or margins since there are a greater number of competitors selling SD products. 16 Table of Contents New applications may require significant up-front investment with no assurance of long-term commercial success or profitability. As we introduce new standards or technologies, it can take time for these new standards or technologies to be adopted, for consumers to accept and transition to these new standards or technologies and for significant sales to be generated, if at all. Competitors or other market participants could seek to develop new standards for flash memory products that, if accepted by device manufacturers or consumers, could reduce demand for our products. For example, certain handset manufacturers and flash memory chip producers are currently advocating and developing a new standard, referred to as Universal Flash Storage, or UFS, for flash memory cards used in mobile phones. Intel Corporation, or Intel, and Micron Technology, Inc., or Micron, have also developed a new specification for a NAND flash interface, called Open NAND Flash Interface, or ONFI, which would be used primarily in computing devices. Broad acceptance of new standards, technologies or products may reduce demand for some of our products that may be based on different standards. If this decreased demand is not offset by increased demand for new form factors or products that we offer, our results of operations would be harmed. Alternative storage solutions such as high bandwidth wireless or internet-based storage, including cloud computing, could reduce the need for physical flash storage within electronic devices. These alternative technologies could negatively impact the overall market for flash-based products, which could seriously harm our results of operations. Consumer devices that use NAND-based flash memory do so in either a removable card or an embedded format. We offer NAND-based flash memory products in both categories; however, our market share is strongest for removable flash memory products. If designers and manufacturers of consumer devices, including mobile phones, increase their usage of embedded flash memory, we may not be able to sustain our market share. In addition, if NAND-based flash memory is used in an embedded format, we would have less opportunity to influence the capacity of the NAND-based flash products and we would not have the opportunity for additional after-market retail sales related to these consumer devices or mobile phones. Any loss of market share or reduction in the average capacity of our product sales or any loss in our retail after-market opportunity could harm our operating results and business condition. In addition, we are investing in future alternative technologies, particularly our 3D semiconductor memory. We are investing significant resources to develop this technology for multiple read-write applications; however, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing this or other technologies or that we will be able to achieve the yields, quality or capacities to be cost competitive with existing or other alternative technologies. We face competition from numerous manufacturers and marketers of products using flash memory, as well as from manufacturers of new and alternative technologies, and if we cannot compete effectively, our results of operations and financial condition will suffer. Our competitors include many large companies that may have greater advanced wafer manufacturing capacity, substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources and more diversified businesses than we do, which may allow them to produce flash memory chips in high volumes at low costs and to sell these flash memory chips themselves or to our flash card competitors at a low cost. Some of our competitors may sell their flash memory chips at or below their true manufacturing costs to gain market share and to cover their fixed costs. Such practices occurred in the DRAM industry during periods of excess supply and resulted in substantial losses in the DRAM industry. Our primary semiconductor competitors include Hynix Semiconductor, Inc., or Hynix, Intel, Micron, Samsung and Toshiba. These current and future competitors produce or could produce alternative flash or other memory technologies that compete against our NAND-based flash memory technology or our alternative technologies, which may reduce demand or accelerate price declines for NAND. Furthermore, the future rate of scaling of the NAND-based flash technology design that we employ may slow down significantly, which would slow down cost reductions that are fundamental to the adoption of flash memory technology in new applications. If the scaling of NAND-based flash technology slows down or alternative technologies prove to be more economical, our business would be harmed, and our investments in captive fabrication facilities could be impaired. Our cost reduction activities are dependent in part on the purchase of new specialized manufacturing equipment, and if this equipment is not generally available or is allocated to our competitors, our ability to reduce costs could be limited. 17 Table of Contents We also compete with flash memory card manufacturers and resellers. These companies purchase or have a captive supply of flash memory components and assemble memory cards. Our primary competitors currently include, among others, A-DATA, Buffalo, CnMemory, Dane-Elec Memory, Kodak, Elecom, FUJI, Gemalto, Hagiwara, Hama, Imation, Memorex, I-O Data, Kingmax, Kingston, Lexar, Micron, Netac, Panasonic, PNY, PQI, RITEK, Samsung, Sony, STMicroelectronics, Toshiba, Transcend and Verbatim. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do, have well recognized brand names or have the ability to operate their business on lower margins than we do. The success of our competitors may adversely affect our future revenues or margins and may result in the loss of our key customers. For example, Toshiba and other manufacturers have increased their market share of flash memory cards for mobile phones, including the microSD™ card, which have been a significant driver of our growth. In the digital audio market, we face competition from well established companies such as Apple, ARCHOS, Coby, Creative, Royal Philips Electronics, Microsoft, Samsung and Sony. In the USB flash drive market, we face competition from a large number of competitors, including Hynix, Imation, Kingston, Lexar, Memorex, PNY, Sony and Verbatim. In the market for SSDs, we face competition from large NAND flash producers such as Intel, Samsung and Toshiba, as well as from hard drive manufacturers, such as Seagate, Samsung, Western Digital and others, who have established relationships with computer manufacturers. We also face competition from third-party solid-state drive solutions providers such as A-DATA, Kingston, Phison Electronics Corporation, STEC and Transcend. We sell flash memory in the form of white label cards, wafers or components to certain companies who sell flash products that may ultimately compete with SanDisk branded products in the retail or OEM channels. This could harm the SanDisk branded market share and reduce our sales and profits. Furthermore, many companies are pursuing new or alternative technologies or alternative forms of NAND, such as phase-change and charge-trap flash technologies which may compete with NAND-based flash memory. New or alternative technologies, if successfully developed by our competitors, and if we are unable to scale our technology on an equivalent basis, could provide an advantage to these competitors. These new or alternative technologies may enable products that are smaller, have a higher capacity, lower cost, lower power consumption or have other advantages. If we cannot compete effectively, our results of operations and financial condition will suffer. We believe that our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including: price, quality and on-time delivery of products; product performance, availability and differentiation; success in developing new applications and new market segments; sufficient availability of cost-efficient supply; efficiency of production; ownership and monetization of intellectual property rights; timing of new product announcements or introductions; the development of industry standards and formats; the number and nature of competitors in a given market; and general market and economic conditions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future. 18 Table of Contents Our financial performance can depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions and the related impact on levels of consumer spending, which have deteriorated in many countries and regions, including the U.S., and may not recover in the foreseeable future. Demand for our products is adversely affected by negative macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending. The tightening of consumer credit, low level of consumer liquidity, and volatility in credit and equity markets have weakened consumer confidence and decreased consumer spending. These and other economic factors have reduced demand growth for our products and harmed our business, financial condition and results of operations, and to the extent such economic conditions continue, they could cause further harm to our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our license and royalty revenues may fluctuate or decline significantly in the future due to license agreement renewals or if licensees fail to perform on a portion or all of their contractual obligations. If our existing licensees do not renew their licenses upon expiration and we are not successful in signing new licensees in the future, our license revenue, profitability, and cash provided by operating activities would be harmed. For example, in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009, our license and royalty revenues declined due to a new license agreement with an existing licensee at a lower effective royalty rate as compared to the previous license agreement. To the extent that we are unable to renew license agreements under similar terms or at all, our financial results would be adversely impacted by the reduced license and royalty revenue and we may incur significant patent litigation costs to enforce our patents against these licensees. If our licensees fail to perform on a portion or all of their contractual obligations, we may incur costs to enforce the terms of our licenses and there can be no assurance that our enforcement and collection efforts will be effective. In addition, we may be subject to disputes, claims or other disagreements on the timing, amount or collection of royalties or license payments under our existing license agreements. Under certain conditions, a portion or the entire outstanding lease obligations related to Flash Ventures’ master equipment lease agreements could be accelerated, which would harm our business, results of operations, cash flows, and liquidity. Flash Ventures’ master lease agreements contain customary covenants for Japanese lease facilities. In addition to containing customary events of default related to Flash Ventures that could result in an acceleration of Flash Ventures’ obligations, the master lease agreements contain an acceleration clause for certain events of default related to us as guarantor, including, among other things, our failure to maintain a minimum stockholders’ equity of at least $1.51 billion, and our failure to maintain a minimum corporate rating of either BB- from Standard & Poors, or S&P, or Moody’s Corporation, or a minimum corporate rating of BB+ from Rating & Investment Information, Inc., or R&I. As of January 3, 2010, Flash Ventures were in compliance with all of their master lease covenants. While our S&P credit rating was B, two levels below the required minimum corporate rating threshold from S&P, our R&I credit rating was BBB-, one level above the required minimum corporate rating threshold from R&I. If R&I were to downgrade our credit rating below the minimum corporate rating threshold, Flash Ventures would become non-compliant with certain covenants under its master equipment lease agreements and would be required to negotiate a resolution to the non-compliance to avoid acceleration of the obligations under such agreements. Such resolution could include, among other things, supplementary security to be supplied by us, as guarantor, or increased interest rates or waiver fees, should the lessors decide they need additional collateral or financial consideration. If an event of default occurs and if we failed to reach a resolution, we may be required to pay a portion or the entire outstanding lease obligations up to $1.07 billion, based upon the exchange rate at January 3, 2010, covered by our guarantee under the Flash Ventures master lease agreements, which would significantly reduce our cash position and may force us to seek additional financing, which may or may not be available. 19 Table of Contents The semiconductor industry is subject to significant downturns that have harmed our business, financial condition and results of operations in the past and may do so in the future. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and is characterized by constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence, price declines, evolving standards, short product life cycles and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. The industry has experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles of both semiconductor companies and their customers’ products and declines in general economic conditions. The flash memory industry has recently experienced significant excess supply, reduced demand, high inventory levels, and accelerated declines in selling prices. If we again experience oversupply of NAND-based flash products, we may be forced to hold excessive inventory, sell our inventory below cost, and record inventory write-downs, all of which would place additional pressure on our results of operation and our cash position. We depend on Flash Ventures and third parties for silicon supply and any disruption or shortage in our supply from these sources will reduce our revenues, earnings and gross margins. All of our flash memory products require silicon supply for the memory and controller components. The substantial majority of our flash memory is currently supplied by Flash Ventures and to a much lesser extent by third-party silicon suppliers. Any disruption or shortage in supply of flash memory from our captive or non-captive sources would harm our operating results. The risks of supply disruption are magnified at Toshiba’s Yokkaichi, Japan operations, where Flash Ventures are operated and Toshiba’s foundry capacity is located. Earthquakes and power outages have resulted in production line stoppages and loss of wafers in Yokkaichi and similar stoppages and losses may occur in the future. For example, in the first quarter of fiscal year 2006, a brief power outage occurred at Fab 3, which resulted in a loss of wafers and significant costs associated with bringing the fab back on line. In addition, the Yokkaichi location is often subject to earthquakes, which could result in production stoppage, a loss of wafers and the incurrence of significant costs. Moreover, Toshiba’s employees that produce Flash Ventures’ products are covered by collective bargaining agreements and any strike or other job action by those employees could interrupt our wafer supply from Flash Ventures. If we have disruption in our captive wafer supply or if our non-captive sources fail to supply wafers in the amounts and at the times we expect, or we do not place orders with sufficient lead time to receive non-captive supply, we may not have sufficient supply to meet demand and our operating results could be harmed. Currently, our controller wafers are manufactured by SMIC, TSMC and UMC. Any disruption in the manufacturing operations of our controller wafer vendors would result in delivery delays, adversely affect our ability to make timely shipments of our products and harm our operating results until we could qualify an alternate source of supply for our controller wafers, which could take several quarters to complete. In times of significant growth in global demand for flash memory, demand from our customers may outstrip the supply of flash memory and controllers available to us from our current sources. If our silicon vendors are unable to satisfy our requirements on competitive terms or at all, we may lose potential sales and market share, and our business, financial condition and operating results may suffer. Any disruption or delay in supply from our silicon sources could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents If actual manufacturing yields are lower than our expectations, this may result in increased costs and product shortages. The fabrication of our products requires wafers to be produced in a highly controlled and ultra clean environment. Semiconductor manufacturing yields and product reliability are a function of both design and manufacturing process technology and production delays may be caused by equipment malfunctions, fabrication facility accidents or human error. Yield problems may not be identified or improved until an actual product is manufactured and can be tested. As a result, yield problems may not be identified until the wafers are well into the production process. We have, from time-to-time, experienced yields that have adversely affected our business and results of operations. We have experienced adverse yields on more than one occasion when we have transitioned to new generations of products. If actual yields are low, we will experience higher costs and reduced product supply, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, if the production ramp and/or yield of 32-nanometer 2-bits per cell and 3-bits per cell NAND technology wafers does not increase as expected, our cost competitiveness would be harmed, we may not have adequate supply or the right product mix to meet demand, and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be harmed. We depend on our captive assembly and test manufacturing facility in China and our business could be harmed if this facility does not perform as planned. Our reliance on our captive assembly and test manufacturing facility near Shanghai, China has increased significantly and we now utilize this factory to satisfy a significant portion of our assembly and test requirements, and also to produce products with leading-edge technologies such as multi-stack die packages. Any delays or interruptions in the production ramp or targeted yields or any quality issues at our captive facility could harm our results of operations and financial condition. We depend on our third-party subcontractors and our business could be harmed if our subcontractors do not perform as planned. We rely on third-party subcontractors for a portion of our wafer testing, IC assembly, product assembly, product testing and order fulfillment. From time-to-time, our subcontractors have experienced difficulty meeting our requirements. If we are unable to increase the capacity of our current subcontractors or qualify and engage additional subcontractors, we may not be able to meet demand for our products. We do not have long-term contracts with our existing subcontractors nor do we expect to have long-term contracts with any new subcontractors. We do not have exclusive relationships with any of our subcontractors, and therefore, cannot guarantee that they will devote sufficient resources to manufacturing our products. We are not able to directly control product delivery schedules. Furthermore, we manufacture on a turnkey basis with some of our subcontractors. In these arrangements, we do not have visibility and control of their inventories of purchased parts necessary to build our products or of the progress of our products through their assembly line. Any significant problems that occur at our subcontractors, or their failure to perform at the level we expect, could lead to product shortages or quality assurance problems, either of which would have adverse effects on our operating results. In transitioning to new processes, products and silicon sources, we face production and market acceptance risks that may cause significant product delays, cost overruns or performance issues that could harm our business. Successive generations of our products have incorporated semiconductors with greater memory capacity per chip. The transition to new generations of products, such as products containing 32-nanometer process technologies and/or 3-bits per cell and 4-bits per cell NAND technologies, is highly complex and requires new controllers, new test procedures, potentially new equipment and modifications to numerous aspects of any manufacturing processes, as well as extensive qualification of the new products by our OEM customers and us. There can be no assurance that these transitions or other future technology transitions will occur on schedule or at the yields or costs that we anticipate. If Flash Ventures encounters difficulties in transitioning to new technologies, our cost per gigabyte may not remain competitive with the costs achieved by other flash memory producers, which would harm our gross margins and financial results. In addition, we could face design, manufacturing and equipment challenges when transitioning to the next generation of technologies beyond NAND. Any material delay in a development or qualification schedule could delay deliveries and harm our operating results. We have periodically experienced significant delays in the development and volume production ramp-up of our products. Similar delays could occur in the future and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents Our products may contain errors or defects, which could result in the rejection of our products, product recalls, damage to our reputation, lost revenues, diverted development resources and increased service costs and warranty claims and litigation. Our products are complex, must meet stringent user requirements, may contain errors or defects and the majority of our products are warrantied for up to ten years. Generally, our OEM customers have more stringent requirements than other customers and increases in OEM product revenue could require additional cost to test products or increase service costs and warranty claims. Errors or defects in our products may be caused by, among other things, errors or defects in the memory or controller components, including components we procure from non-captive sources. In addition, the substantial majority of our flash memory is supplied by Flash Ventures, and if the wafers contain errors or defects, our overall supply could be adversely affected. These factors could result in the rejection of our products, damage to our reputation, lost revenues, diverted development resources, increased customer service and support costs, indemnification of our customer’s product recall costs, warranty claims and litigation. We record an allowance for warranty and similar costs in connection with sales of our products, but actual warranty and similar costs may be significantly higher than our recorded estimate and result in an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our new products have, from time-to-time, been introduced with design and production errors at a rate higher than the error rate in our established products. We must estimate warranty and similar costs for new products without historical information and actual costs may significantly exceed our recorded estimates. Warranty and similar costs may be even more difficult to estimate as we increase our use of non-captive supply. Underestimation of our warranty and similar costs would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. From time-to-time, we overestimate our requirements and build excess inventory, or underestimate our requirements and have a shortage of supply, either of which harm our financial results. The majority of our products are sold directly or indirectly into consumer markets, which are difficult to accurately forecast. Also, a substantial majority of our quarterly sales are from orders received and fulfilled in that quarter. Additionally, we depend upon timely reporting from our retail and distributor customers as to their inventory levels and sales of our products in order to forecast demand for our products. We have in the past significantly over-forecasted or under-forecasted actual demand for our products. The failure to accurately forecast demand for our products will result in lost sales or excess inventory, both of which will harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may increase our inventory in anticipation of increased demand or as captive wafer capacity ramps. If demand does not materialize, we may be forced to write-down excess inventory or write-down inventory to the lower of cost or market, as was the case in fiscal year 2008, which may harm our financial condition and results of operations. During periods of excess supply in the market for our flash memory products, we may lose market share to competitors who aggressively lower their prices. In order to remain competitive, we may be forced to sell inventory below cost. If we lose market share due to price competition or if we must write-down inventory, our results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Conversely, under conditions of tight flash memory supply, we may be unable to adequately increase our production volumes or secure sufficient supply in order to maintain our market share. In addition, longer than anticipated lead times for advanced semiconductor manufacturing equipment or higher than expected equipment costs could negatively impact our ability to meet our supply requirements or to reduce future production costs. If we are unable to maintain market share, our results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Our ability to respond to changes in market conditions from our forecast is limited by our purchasing arrangements with our silicon sources. Some of these arrangements provide that the first three months of our rolling six-month projected supply requirements are fixed and we may make only limited percentage changes in the second three months of the period covered by our supply requirement projections. We have some non-silicon components which have long-lead times requiring us to place orders several months in advance of our anticipated demand. The extended period of time to secure these long-lead time parts increases our risk that forecasts will vary substantially from actual demand, which could lead to excess inventory or loss of sales. 22 Table of Contents We rely on our suppliers and contract manufacturers, some of which are the sole source of supply for our non-memory components, and capacity limitations or the absence of a back-up supplier exposes our supply chain to unanticipated disruptions or potential additional costs. We do not have long-term supply agreements with most of these vendors. From time-to-time, certain materials may become difficult or more expensive to obtain which could impact our ability to meet demand and could harm our profitability. Our business, financial condition and operating results could be significantly harmed by delays or reductions in shipments if we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of these components or develop alternative sources of supply in a timely manner or at all. Our global operations and operations at Flash Ventures and third-party subcontractors are subject to risks for which we may not be adequately insured. Our global operations are subject to many risks including errors and omissions, infrastructure disruptions, such as large-scale outages or interruptions of service from utilities or telecommunications providers, supply chain interruptions, third-party liabilities and fires or natural disasters. No assurance can be given that we will not incur losses beyond the limits of, or outside the scope of, coverage of our insurance policies. From time-to-time, various types of insurance have not been available on commercially acceptable terms or, in some cases at all. We cannot assure you that in the future we will be able to maintain existing insurance coverage or that premiums will not increase substantially. We maintain limited insurance coverage and in some cases no coverage for natural disasters and sudden and accidental environmental damages as these types of insurance are sometimes not available or available only at a prohibitive cost. For example, our test and assembly facility in Shanghai, China, on which we have significant dependence, may not be adequately insured against all potential losses. Accordingly, we may be subject to an uninsured or under-insured loss in such situations. We depend upon Toshiba to obtain and maintain sufficient property, business interruption and other insurance for Flash Ventures. If Toshiba fails to do so, we could suffer significant unreimbursable losses, and such failure could also cause Flash Ventures to breach various financing covenants. In addition, we insure against property loss and business interruption resulting from the risks incurred at our third-party subcontractors; however, we have limited control as to how those sub-contractors run their operations and manage their risks, and as a result, we may not be adequately insured. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations that could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. A significant portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, which exposes us to adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as our business and business practices evolve, and they could harm our financial results and cash flows. Our most significant exposure is related to our purchases of NAND flash memory from Flash Ventures, which are denominated in Japanese yen. For example, in the last year, the Japanese yen has significantly appreciated relative to the U.S. dollar and this has increased our costs of NAND flash wafers, negatively impacting our gross margins and results of operations. In addition, our investments in Flash Ventures are denominated in Japanese yen and adverse changes in the exchange rate could increase the cost to us of future funding or increase our exposure to asset impairments. We also have foreign currency exposures related to certain non-U.S. dollar-denominated revenue and operating expenses in Europe and Asia. Additionally, we have exposures to emerging market currencies, which can be extremely volatile. An increase in the value of the U.S. dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the U.S. where we sell in dollars, and a weakened U.S. dollar could increase local operating expenses and the cost of raw materials to the extent purchased in foreign currencies. We also have significant monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in non-functional currencies. 23 Table of Contents We enter into foreign exchange forward and cross currency swap contracts to reduce the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain foreign currency assets and liabilities. In addition, we hedge certain anticipated foreign currency cash flows with foreign exchange forward and option contracts. We generally have not hedged our future investments and distributions denominated in Japanese yen related to Flash Ventures. Our attempts to hedge against currency risks may not be successful, resulting in an adverse impact on our results of operations. In addition, if we do not successfully manage our hedging program in accordance with current accounting guidelines, we may be subject to adverse accounting treatment of our hedging program, which could harm our results of operations. There can be no assurance that this hedging program will be economically beneficial to us. Further, the ability to enter into foreign exchange contracts with financial institutions is based upon our available credit from such institutions and compliance with covenants and/or other restrictions. Operating losses, third party downgrades of our credit rating or instability in the worldwide financial markets could impact our ability to effectively manage our foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation risk, which could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may need to raise additional financing, which could be difficult to obtain, and which if not obtained in satisfactory amounts may prevent us from funding Flash Ventures, developing or enhancing our products, taking advantage of future opportunities, growing our business or responding to competitive pressures or unanticipated industry changes, any of which could harm our business. We currently believe that we have sufficient cash resources to fund our operations as well as our anticipated investments in Flash Ventures for at least the next twelve months; however, we may decide to raise additional funds to maintain the strength of our balance sheet, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, if at all. The current worldwide financing environment is challenging, which could make it more difficult for us to raise funds on reasonable terms, or at all. From time-to-time, we may decide to raise additional funds through equity, public or private debt, or lease financings. If we issue additional equity securities, our stockholders will experience dilution and the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of common stock. If we raise funds through debt or lease financing, we will have to pay interest and may be subject to restrictive covenants, which could harm our business. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, if and when needed, our credit rating may be downgraded, and we may not be able to develop or enhance our technology or products, fulfill our obligations to Flash Ventures, take advantage of future opportunities, grow our business or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated industry changes, any of which could harm our business. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. In the past, we have been involved in significant and expensive disputes regarding our intellectual property rights and those of others, including claims that we may be infringing third-parties’ patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights. We expect that we will be involved in similar disputes in the future. We cannot assure you that: any of our existing patents will continue to be held valid, if challenged; patents will be issued for any of our pending applications; any claims allowed from existing or pending patents will have sufficient scope or strength; our patents will be issued in the primary countries where our products are sold in order to protect our rights and potential commercial advantage; or any of our products or technologies do not infringe on the patents of other companies. 24 Table of Contents In addition, our competitors may be able to design their products around our patents and other proprietary rights. We also have patent cross-license agreements with several of our leading competitors. Under these agreements, we have enabled competitors to manufacture and sell products that incorporate technology covered by our patents. While we obtain license and royalty revenue or other consideration for these licenses, if we continue to license our patents to our competitors, competition may increase and may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. There are both flash memory producers and flash memory card manufacturers who we believe may require a license from us. Enforcement of our rights often requires litigation. If we bring a patent infringement action and are not successful, our competitors would be able to use similar technology to compete with us. Moreover, the defendant in such an action may successfully countersue us for infringement of their patents or assert a counterclaim that our patents are invalid or unenforceable. If we do not prevail in the defense of patent infringement claims, we could be required to pay substantial damages, cease the manufacture, use and sale of infringing products, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, discontinue the use of specific processes, or obtain licenses to the technology infringed. For example, on October 24, 2007, we initiated two patent infringement actions in the United States District Court for the Western District of Wisconsin and one action in the United States International Trade Commission, or ITC, against certain companies that manufacture, sell and import USB flash drives, CompactFlash® cards, multimedia cards, MP3/media players and/or other removable flash storage products. In this ITC action, an Initial Determination was issued in April 2009 and a Final Determination was issued in October 2009 finding non-infringement of certain accused flash memory products. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in future patent infringement actions or that the validity of the asserted patents will be preserved or that we will not face counterclaims of the nature described above. We and certain of our officers are currently and may in the future be involved in litigation, including litigation regarding our intellectual property rights or those of third parties, which may be costly, may divert the efforts of our key personnel and could result in adverse court rulings, which could materially harm our business. We are involved in a number of lawsuits, including among others, several cases involving our patents and the patents of third parties. We are the plaintiff in some of these actions and the defendant in other of these actions. Some of the actions seek injunctions against the sale of our products and/or substantial monetary damages, which if granted or awarded, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We and numerous other companies have been sued in the United States District Court of the Northern District of California in purported consumer class actions alleging a conspiracy to fix, raise, maintain or stabilize the pricing of flash memory, and concealment thereof, in violation of state and federal laws. The lawsuits purport to be on behalf of classes of purchasers of flash memory. The lawsuits seek restitution, injunction and damages, including treble damages, in an unspecified amount. We are unable to predict the outcome of these lawsuits and investigations. The cost of discovery and defense in these actions as well as the final resolution of these alleged violations of antitrust laws could result in significant liability and expense and may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Litigation is subject to inherent risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations. Factors that could cause litigation results to differ include, but are not limited to, the discovery of previously unknown facts, changes in the law or in the interpretation of laws, and uncertainties associated with the judicial decision-making process. If we receive an adverse judgment in any litigation, we could be required to pay substantial damages and/or cease the manufacture, use and sale of products. Litigation, including intellectual property litigation, can be complex, can extend for a protracted period of time, can be very expensive, and the expense can be unpredictable. Litigation initiated by us could also result in counter-claims against us, which could increase the costs associated with the litigation and result in our payment of damages or other judgments against us. In addition, litigation may divert the efforts and attention of some of our key personnel. 25 Table of Contents From time-to-time, we have sued, and may in the future sue, third parties in order to protect our intellectual property rights. Parties that we have sued and that we may sue for patent infringement may countersue us for infringing their patents. If we are held to infringe the intellectual property or related rights of others, we may need to spend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or obtain licenses from third parties, but we may not be able to develop such technology or acquire such licenses on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We may also be required to pay significant damages and/or discontinue the use of certain manufacturing or design processes. In addition, we or our suppliers could be enjoined from selling some or all of our respective products in one or more geographic locations. If we or our suppliers are enjoined from selling any of our respective products, or if we are required to develop new technologies or pay significant monetary damages or are required to make substantial royalty payments, our business would be harmed. We may be obligated to indemnify our current or former directors or employees, or former directors or employees of companies that we have acquired, in connection with litigation or regulatory investigations. These liabilities could be substantial and may include, among other things, the costs of defending lawsuits against these individuals; the cost of defending shareholder derivative suits; the cost of governmental, law enforcement or regulatory investigations; civil or criminal fines and penalties; legal and other expenses; and expenses associated with the remedial measures, if any, which may be imposed. We continually evaluate and explore strategic opportunities as they arise, including business combinations, strategic partnerships, collaborations, capital investments and the purchase, licensing or sale of assets. Potential continuing uncertainty surrounding these activities may result in legal proceedings and claims against us, including class and derivative lawsuits on behalf of our stockholders. We may be required to expend significant resources, including management time, to defend these actions and could be subject to damages or settlement costs related to these actions. Moreover, from time-to-time, we agree to indemnify certain of our suppliers and customers for alleged patent infringement. The scope of such indemnity varies but generally includes indemnification for direct and consequential damages and expenses, including attorneys’ fees. We may, from time-to-time, be engaged in litigation as a result of these indemnification obligations. Third-party claims for patent infringement are excluded from coverage under our insurance policies. A future obligation to indemnify our customers or suppliers may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For additional information concerning legal proceedings, including the examples set forth above, see Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.” We may be unable to license intellectual property to or from third parties as needed, which could expose us to liability for damages, increase our costs or limit or prohibit us from selling products. If we incorporate third-party technology into our products or if we are found to infringe others’ intellectual property, we could be required to license intellectual property from a third party. We may also need to license some of our intellectual property to others in order to enable us to obtain important cross-licenses to third-party patents. We cannot be certain that licenses will be offered when we need them, that the terms offered will be acceptable, or that these licenses will help our business. If we do obtain licenses from third parties, we may be required to pay license fees or royalty payments. In addition, if we are unable to obtain a license that is necessary to manufacture our products, we could be required to suspend the manufacture of products or stop our product suppliers from using processes that may infringe the rights of third parties. We may not be successful in redesigning our products, or the necessary licenses may not be available under reasonable terms. 26 Table of Contents Seasonality in our business may result in our inability to accurately forecast our product purchase requirements. Sales of our products in the consumer electronics market are subject to seasonality. For example, sales have typically increased significantly in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, sometimes followed by significant declines in the first quarter of the following fiscal year. This seasonality makes it more difficult for us to forecast our business, especially in the current global economic environment and its corresponding decline in consumer confidence, which may impact typical seasonal trends. If our forecasts are inaccurate, we may lose market share or procure excess inventory or inappropriately increase or decrease our operating expenses, any of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. This seasonality also may lead to higher volatility in our stock price, the need for significant working capital investments in receivables and inventory and our need to build inventory levels in advance of our most active selling seasons. Because of our international business and operations, we must comply with numerous international laws and regulations, and we are vulnerable to political instability and other risks related to international operations. Currently, a large portion of our revenues is derived from our international operations, and all of our products are produced overseas in China, Japan and Taiwan. We are, therefore, affected by the political, economic, labor, environmental, public health and military conditions in these countries. For example, China does not currently have a comprehensive and highly developed legal system, particularly with respect to the protection of intellectual property rights. This results, among other things, in the prevalence of counterfeit goods in China. The enforcement of existing and future laws and contracts remains uncertain, and the implementation and interpretation of such laws may be inconsistent. Such inconsistency could lead to piracy and degradation of our intellectual property protection. Although we engage in efforts to prevent counterfeit products from entering the market, those efforts may not be successful. Our results of operations and financial condition could be harmed by the sale of counterfeit products. Our international business activities could also be limited or disrupted by any of the following factors: the need to comply with foreign government regulation; changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; reduced sales to our customers or interruption to our manufacturing processes in the Pacific Rim that may arise from regional issues in Asia; imposition of regulatory requirements, tariffs, import and export restrictions and other barriers and restrictions; changes in, or the particular application of, government regulations; duties and/or fees related to customs entries for our products, which are all manufactured offshore; longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection; adverse tax rules and regulations; weak protection of our intellectual property rights; delays in product shipments due to local customs restrictions; and delays in research and development that may arise from political unrest at our development centers in Israel. 27 Table of Contents Our stock price and convertible notes price have been, and may continue to be, volatile, which could result in investors losing all or part of their investments. The market prices of our stock and convertible notes have fluctuated significantly in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. We believe that such fluctuations will continue as a result of many factors, including financing plans, future announcements concerning us, our competitors or our principal customers regarding financial results or expectations, technological innovations, industry supply or demand dynamics, new product introductions, governmental regulations, the commencement or results of litigation or changes in earnings estimates by analysts. In addition, in recent years the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations and the market prices of the securities of high-technology and semiconductor companies have been especially volatile, often for reasons outside the control of the particular companies. These fluctuations as well as general economic, political and market conditions may have an adverse affect on the market price of our common stock as well as the price of our outstanding convertible notes. We may engage in business combinations that are dilutive to existing stockholders, result in unanticipated accounting charges or otherwise harm our results of operations, and result in difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of acquired companies or businesses. We continually evaluate and explore strategic opportunities as they arise, including business combinations, strategic partnerships, collaborations, capital investments and the purchase, licensing or sale of assets. If we issue equity securities in connection with an acquisition, the issuance may be dilutive to our existing stockholders. Alternatively, acquisitions made entirely or partially for cash would reduce our cash reserves. Acquisitions may require significant capital infusions, typically entail many risks and could result in difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of acquired companies. We may experience delays in the timing and successful integration of acquired technologies and product development through volume production, unanticipated costs and expenditures, changing relationships with customers, suppliers and strategic partners, or contractual, intellectual property or employment issues. In addition, key personnel of an acquired company may decide not to work for us. The acquisition of another company or its products and technologies may also result in our entering into a geographic or business market in which we have little or no prior experience. These challenges could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, harm our reputation, subject us to an increased risk of intellectual property and other litigation and increase our expenses. These challenges are magnified as the size of the acquisition increases, and we cannot assure you that we will realize the intended benefits of any acquisition. Acquisitions may require large one-time charges and can result in increased debt or contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges, the amortization of identifiable purchased intangible assets or impairment of goodwill, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Mergers and acquisitions of high-technology companies are inherently risky and subject to many factors outside of our control, and no assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions could materially harm our business and operating results. Even when an acquired company has already developed and marketed products, there can be no assurance that such products will be successful after the closing, will not cannibalize sales of our existing products, that product enhancements will be made in a timely fashion or that pre-acquisition due diligence will have identified all possible issues that might arise with respect to such company. Failed business combinations, or the efforts to create a business combination, can also result in litigation. 28 Table of Contents Our success depends on our key personnel, including our executive officers, the loss of whom could disrupt our business. Our success greatly depends on the continued contributions of our senior management and other key research and development, sales, marketing and operations personnel, including Dr. Eli Harari, our founder, chairman and chief executive officer. We do not have employment agreements with any of our executive officers and they are free to terminate their employment with us at any time. Our success will also depend on our ability to recruit additional highly skilled personnel. Historically, a significant portion of our employee compensation has been dependent on equity compensation, which is directly tied to our stock price. Our employees continue to hold a number of equity incentive awards that are underwater, and as a result, a significant portion of our equity compensation has little or no retention value. We did not pay any bonus in 2009 related to fiscal year 2008. Furthermore, in 2009, we canceled our annual merit salary increases, instituted forced shutdown days, and reduced certain employee benefits to reduce costs. These actions or any further reduction in compensation elements may make it more difficult for us to hire or retain key personnel. Terrorist attacks, war, threats of war and government responses thereto may negatively impact our operations, revenues, costs and stock price. Terrorist attacks, U.S. military responses to these attacks, war, threats of war and any corresponding decline in consumer confidence could have a negative impact on consumer demand. Any of these events may disrupt our operations or those of our customers and suppliers and may affect the availability of materials needed to manufacture our products or the means to transport those materials to manufacturing facilities and finished products to customers. Any of these events could also increase volatility in the U.S. and world financial markets, which could harm our stock price and may limit the capital resources available to us and our customers or suppliers, or adversely affect consumer confidence. We have substantial operations in Israel including a development center in Northern Israel, near the border with Lebanon, and a research center in Omer, Israel, which is near the Gaza Strip, areas that have experienced significant violence and political unrest. Turmoil and unrest in Israel or the Middle East could cause delays in the development or production of our products. This could harm our business and results of operations. Natural disasters or epidemics in the countries in which we or our suppliers or subcontractors operate could negatively impact our operations. Our operations, including those of our suppliers and subcontractors, are concentrated in Milpitas, California; Raleigh, North Carolina; Brno, Czech Republic; Astugi and Yokkaichi, Japan; Hsinchu and Taichung, Taiwan; and Dongguan, Futian, Shanghai and Shenzen, China. In the past, these areas have been affected by natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis, floods and typhoons, and some areas have been affected by epidemics, such as avian flu or H1N1 flu. If a natural disaster or epidemic were to occur in one or more of these areas, our operations could be significantly impaired and our business may be harmed. This is magnified by the fact that we do not have insurance for most natural disasters, including earthquakes. This could harm our business and results of operations. We have recently upgraded our enterprise-wide information systems and related controls, processes and procedures, and any issues with the new systems could materially impact our business operations and/or financial results. At the beginning of the third quarter of fiscal year 2009, we implemented a new enterprise resource planning, or ERP, system. Any ERP system problems, quality issues or programming errors could impact our continued ability to successfully operate our business or to timely and accurately report our financial results. In addition, any distraction of our workforce due to the new systems could harm our business or results of operations. 29 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents, stockholder rights plan and in Delaware law could discourage or delay a change in control and, as a result, negatively impact our stockholders. We have taken a number of actions that could have the effect of discouraging a takeover attempt. For example, we have a stockholders’ rights plan that would cause substantial dilution to a stockholder, and substantially increase the cost paid by a stockholder, who attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our board of directors. This could discourage an acquisition of us. In addition, our certificate of incorporation grants our board of directors the authority to fix the rights, preferences and privileges of and issue up to 4,000,000 shares of preferred stock without stockholder action (2,000,000 of which have already been reserved under our stockholder rights plan). Issuing preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult and less attractive for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Preferred stock may also have other rights, including economic rights senior to our common stock that could have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock. In addition, we are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. This section provides that a corporation may not engage in any business combination with any interested stockholder, defined broadly as a beneficial owner of 15% or more of that corporation’s voting stock, during the three-year period following the time that a stockholder became an interested stockholder. This provision could have the effect of delaying or discouraging a change of control of SanDisk. Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. We are subject to income tax in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our tax liabilities are affected by the amounts we charge for inventory, services, licenses, funding and other items in intercompany transactions. We are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. Tax authorities may disagree with our intercompany charges or other matters and assess additional taxes. For example, we are currently under a federal income tax audit by the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, for fiscal years 2005 through 2008. While we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision, examinations are inherently uncertain and an unfavorable outcome could occur. An unanticipated unfavorable outcome in any specific period could harm our results of operations for that period or future periods. The financial cost and our attention and time devoted to defending income tax positions may divert resources from our business operations, which could harm our business and profitability. The IRS audit may also impact the timing and/or amount of our refund claim. In addition, our effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws, and the discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation process. In particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the U.S., is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in the U.S. Any of these changes could affect our profitability. We may be subject to risks associated with environmental regulations. Production and marketing of products in certain states and countries may subject us to environmental and other regulations including, in some instances, the responsibility for environmentally safe disposal or recycling. Such laws and regulations have recently been passed in several jurisdictions in which we operate, including Japan and certain states within the U.S. Although we do not anticipate any material adverse effects in the future based on the nature of our operations and the focus of such laws, there is no assurance such existing laws or future laws will not harm our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. 30 Table of Contents In the event we are unable to satisfy regulatory requirements relating to internal controls, or if our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, our business could suffer. In connection with our certification process under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we have identified in the past and will, from time-to-time, identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. We cannot assure you that individually or in the aggregate these deficiencies would not be deemed to be a material weakness or significant deficiency. A material weakness or significant deficiency in internal control over financial reporting could materially impact our reported financial results and the market price of our stock could significantly decline. Additionally, adverse publicity related to the disclosure of a material weakness in internal controls could have a negative impact on our reputation, business and stock price. Any internal control or procedure, no matter how well designed and operated, can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving desired control objectives and cannot prevent human error, intentional misconduct or fraud. Our debt obligations may adversely affect us. Our indebtedness could have significant negative consequences. For example, it could: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limit our ability to obtain additional financing; require the dedication of a substantial portion of any cash flow from operations to the payment of principal of our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of such cash flow to fund our growth strategy, working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors with less debt; and increase our risk of credit rating downgrades. We have significant financial obligations related to Flash Ventures, which could impact our ability to comply with our obligations under our 1% Senior Convertible Notes due 2013 and our 1% Convertible Notes due 2035. We have entered into agreements to guarantee or provide financial support with respect to lease and certain other obligations of Flash Ventures in which we have a 49.9% ownership interest. In addition, we may enter into future agreements to increase manufacturing capacity, including the expansion of Fab 4. As of January 3, 2010 we had guarantee obligations for Flash Ventures’ master lease agreements of approximately $1.07 billion. In addition, we have significant commitments for the future fixed costs of Flash Ventures. Due to these and our other commitments, we may not have sufficient funds to make payments under or repay the notes. The settlement of the 1% Senior Convertible Notes due 2013 may have adverse consequences. The 1% Senior Convertible Notes due 2013 are subject to net share settlement, which means that we will satisfy our conversion obligation to holders by paying a combination of cash and shares of our common stock in settlement thereof, in an amount of cash equal to the principal amount of the 1% Convertible Notes due 2013 plus an amount of shares of our common stock, if any, equal to the excess of the daily conversion values over the cash amount of the 1% Senior Convertible Notes due 2013 being converted. 31 Table of Contents Our failure to convert the 1% Senior Convertible Notes due 2013 into cash or a combination of cash and common stock upon exercise of a holder’s conversion right in accordance with the provisions of the indenture would constitute a default under the indenture. We may not have the financial resources or be able to arrange for financing to pay such principal amount in connection with the surrender of the 1% Senior Convertible Notes due 2013. While we do not have other agreements that would restrict our ability to pay the principal amount of any convertible notes in cash, we may enter into such an agreement in the future, which may limit or prohibit our ability to make any such payment. In addition, a default under the indenture could lead to a default under existing and future agreements governing our indebtedness. If, due to a default, the repayment of related indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay such indebtedness and amounts owing in respect of the conversion, maturity, or put of any convertible notes. The convertible note hedge transactions and the warrant option transactions may affect the value of the notes and our common stock. We have entered into convertible note hedge transactions with Morgan Stanley & Co. International Limited and Goldman, Sachs & Co., or the dealers. These transactions are expected to reduce the potential dilution upon conversion of the 1% Senior Convertible Notes due 2013. We used approximately $67.3 million of the net proceeds of funds received from the 1% Senior Convertible Notes due 2013 to pay the net cost of the convertible note hedge in excess of the warrant transactions. These transactions were accounted for as an adjustment to our stockholders’ equity. In connection with hedging these transactions, the dealers or their affiliates: have entered into various over-the-counter cash-settled derivative transactions with respect to our common stock, concurrently with, and shortly after, the pricing of the notes; and may enter into, or may unwind, various over-the-counter derivatives and/or purchase or sell our common stock in secondary market transactions following the pricing of the notes, including during any observation period related to a conversion of notes. The dealers or their affiliates are likely to modify their hedge positions, from time-to-time, prior to conversion or maturity of the notes by purchasing and selling shares of our common stock, our securities or other instruments they may wish to use in connection with such hedging. In particular, such hedging modification may occur during any observation period for a conversion of the 1% Senior Convertible Notes due 2013, which may have a negative effect on the value of the consideration received in relation to the conversion of those notes. In addition, we intend to exercise options we hold under the convertible note hedge transactions whenever notes are converted. To unwind their hedge positions with respect to those exercised options, the dealers or their affiliates expect to sell shares of our common stock in secondary market transactions or unwind various over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to our common stock during the observation period, if any, for the converted notes. The effect of any of these transactions on the market price of our common stock or the 1% Senior Convertible Notes due 2013 will depend in part on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time. However, any of these activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock and the value of the 1% Senior Convertible Notes due 2013, and consequently affect the amount of cash and the number of shares of common stock the holders will receive upon the conversion of the notes. 32 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 