Item 1A. Risk Factors The following factors, as well as other factors not set forth below, may adversely affect the business, operations, financial condition or results of operations of the Company (sometimes referred to in this section as “we” “us” or “our”). We operate in a competitive market. The non-prime consumer-finance industry is highly competitive. There are numerous financial service companies that provide consumer credit in the markets served by us, including banks, credit unions, other consumer finance companies and captive finance companies owned by automobile manufacturers and retailers. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial resources than us. In addition, our competitors often provide financing on terms more favorable to automobile purchasers or dealers than we offer. Many of these competitors also have long-standing relationships with automobile dealerships and may offer dealerships or their customers other forms of financing, including dealer floor-plan financing and leasing, which are not provided by us. Providers of non-prime consumer financing have traditionally competed primarily on the basis of: • interest rates charged; • the quality of credit accepted; • the flexibility of loan terms offered; and • the quality of service provided. Our ability to compete effectively with other companies offering similar financing arrangements depends on our ability to maintain close relationships with dealers of new and used vehicles. We may not be able to compete successfully in this market or against these competitors. We have focused on a segment of the market composed of consumers who typically do not meet the more stringent credit requirements of traditional consumer financing sources and whose needs, as a result, have not been addressed consistently by such financing sources. When new and/or existing providers of consumer financing undertake significantly greater efforts to penetrate our targeted market segment, we may have to reduce our interest rates and fees in order to maintain our market share. Any reduction in our interest rates, fees or dealer discount rates could have a material adverse impact on our profitability or financial condition. Our profitability and future growth depend on our continued access to bank financing. The profitability and growth of our business currently depend on our ability to access bank debt at competitive rates. We currently depend on a $150.0 million line of credit facility with a financial institution to finance a large portion of our purchases of Contracts and fund our direct loans. This line of credit currently has a maturity date of November 30, 2014 and is secured by substantially all our assets. At March 31, 2013, we had approximately $125.5 million outstanding under the line of credit and approximately $24.5 million available for additional borrowing. The availability of our credit facility depends, in part, on factors outside of our control, including regulatory capital treatment for unfunded bank lines of credit and the availability of bank loans in general. Therefore, we cannot guarantee that this credit facility will continue to be available beyond the current maturity date on reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to renew or replace our credit facility or find alternative financing at reasonable rates, we may be forced to liquidate. We will continue to depend on the availability of our line of credit, together with cash from operations, to finance our future operations. 9 Table of Contents The terms of our indebtedness impose significant restrictions on us. Our existing outstanding indebtedness restricts our ability to, among other things: • sell or transfer assets; • incur additional debt; • repay other debt; • make certain investments or acquisitions; • repurchase or redeem capital stock; • engage in mergers or consolidations; and • engage in certain transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates. In addition, our line of credit facility requires us to comply with certain financial ratios and covenants and to satisfy specified financial tests, including maintenance of asset quality and portfolio performance tests. The need to comply with such covenants and other provisions could impact our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. Moreover, our ability to continue to meet those financial ratios and tests could be affected by events beyond our control. Failure to meet any of these covenants, financial ratios or financial tests could result in an event of default under our line of credit facility. If an event of default occurs under this credit facility, our lenders may take one or more of the following actions: • increase our borrowing costs; • restrict our ability to obtain additional borrowings under the facility; • accelerate all amounts outstanding under the facility; or • enforce their interest against collateral pledged under the facility. If our lender accelerates our debt payments, our assets may not be sufficient to fully repay the debt. We will require a significant amount of cash to service our indebtedness and meet our other liquidity needs. Our ability to make payments on or to refinance our indebtedness and to fund our operations and planned capital expenditures depends on our future operating performance. Our primary cash requirements include the funding of: • Contract purchases and direct loans; • interest payments under our line of credit facility and other indebtedness; • capital expenditures for technology and facilities; • ongoing operating expenses; • planned expansions by opening additional branch offices; and • any required income tax payments. In addition, because we expect to continue to require substantial amounts of cash for the foreseeable future, we may seek additional debt or equity financing. The type, timing and terms of the financing we select will be dependent upon our cash needs, the availability of other financing sources and the prevailing conditions in the financial markets. There is no assurance that any of these sources will be available to us at any given time or that the terms on which these sources may be available will be favorable. Our inability to obtain such additional financing on reasonable terms could adversely impact our ability to grow. Our high level of indebtedness could have important consequences for our business. For example, • we may be unable to satisfy our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness; • we may find it more difficult to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and general corporate needs; • we may have to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash resources to the payments on our outstanding indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available for operations and future business opportunities; and • we may be more vulnerable to adverse general economic and industry conditions. Our ability to make payments on, or to refinance, our indebtedness will depend on our future operating performance, including our ability to access additional debt and equity financing, which to a certain extent, is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. If new debt is added to our current levels, the risks described above could intensify. 10 Table of Contents We may experience high delinquency rates in our loan portfolios, which could reduce our profitability. Our profitability depends, to a material extent, on the performance of Contracts that we purchase. Historically, we have experienced higher delinquency rates than traditional financial institutions because a large portion of our loans are to non-prime borrowers, who are unable to obtain financing from traditional sources due to their credit history. Although we attempt to mitigate these high credit risks with our underwriting standards and collection procedures, these standards and procedures may not offer adequate protection against the risk of default, especially in periods of economic uncertainty and high unemployment such as have existed over much of the past few years. In the event of a default, the collateral value of the financed vehicle usually does not cover the outstanding loan balance and costs of recovery. Higher than anticipated delinquencies and defaults on our Contracts would reduce our profitability. In addition, in the event we were to make any bulk purchases of seasoned Contracts, we may experience higher than normal delinquency rates with respect to these loan portfolios due to our inability to apply our underwriting standards to each loan comprising the acquired portfolios. We would similarly attempt to mitigate the high credit risks associated with these loans, although no assurances can be given that we would be able to do so. We depend upon our relationships with our dealers. Our business depends in large part upon our ability to establish and maintain relationships with reputable dealers who originate the Contracts we purchase. Although we believe we have been successful in developing and maintaining such relationships, such relationships are not exclusive, and many of them are not longstanding. There can be no assurances that we will be successful in maintaining such relationships or increasing the number of dealers with whom we do business, or that our existing dealer base will continue to generate a volume of Contracts comparable to the volume of such Contracts historically generated by such dealers. Our success depends upon our ability to implement our business strategy. Our financial position depends on management’s ability to execute our business strategy. Key factors involved in the execution of our business strategy include achievement of the desired Contract purchase volume, the use of effective risk management techniques and collection methods, continued investment in technology to support operating efficiency, and continued access to significant funding and liquidity sources. Our failure or inability to execute any element of our business strategy could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our business is highly dependent upon general economic conditions. We are subject to changes in general economic conditions that are beyond our control. During periods of economic slowdown or high unemployment, such as has existed for much of the past few years, delinquencies, defaults, repossessions and losses generally increase, absent offsetting factors such as decreased competition. These periods also may be accompanied by decreased consumer demand for automobiles and declining values of automobiles securing outstanding loans, which weakens collateral coverage on our loans and increases the amount of a loss we would experience in the event of default. Because we focus on non-prime borrowers, the actual rates of delinquencies, defaults, repossessions and losses on these loans are higher than those experienced in the general automobile finance industry and could be more dramatically affected by a general economic downturn. In addition, during an economic slowdown or recession, our servicing costs may increase without a corresponding increase in our servicing income. While we seek to manage the higher risk inherent in loans made to non-prime borrowers through our underwriting criteria and collection methods, no assurances can be given that these criteria or methods will afford adequate protection against these risks. Any sustained period of increased delinquencies, defaults, repossessions or losses or increased servicing costs could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. Recent economic developments may adversely affect our business and financial condition. Over the past several years, the United States has experienced a period of economic uncertainty and high unemployment that may adversely affect our business and financial condition. High unemployment and a continued lack of available credit could result in higher delinquencies and losses than we would otherwise experience. Additionally, fluctuating gasoline prices, unstable real estate values, resets of adjustable rate mortgages and other factors have adversely impacted consumer confidence and disposable income. These conditions have increased loss frequency, decreased consumer demand for automobiles and could possibly weaken collateral values on certain types of vehicles. Because we focus predominately on sub-prime borrowers, the actual rates of delinquencies, defaults, repossessions and losses on Contracts are higher than those experienced in the general automobile finance industry and have been materially affected by the recent economic downturn. If economic and credit conditions do not continue to improve, our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. The auction proceeds we receive from the sale of repossessed vehicles and other recoveries are subject to fluctuation due to economic and other factors beyond our control. If we repossess a vehicle securing a Contract, we typically have it transported to an automobile auction for sale. Auction proceeds from the sale of repossessed vehicles and other recoveries are usually not sufficient to cover the outstanding balance of the Contract, and the resulting deficiency is charged off. In addition, there is, on average, approximately a 30-day lapse between the time we repossess a vehicle and the time it is sold by a dealer or at auction. The proceeds we receive from such sales depend upon various factors, including the supply of, and demand for, used vehicles at the time of sale. Such supply and demand are dependent on many 11 Table of Contents factors. For example, the Consumer Assistance to Recycle and Save Act of 2009, which provided incentives to replace older vehicles with new, fuel-efficient vehicles in the second half of 2009, resulted in a temporary reduction in the supply of used vehicles, thus temporarily bolstering used automobile prices. At the same time, during periods of economic slowdown or recession, the demand for used cars may soften, resulting in decreased auction proceeds to us from the sale of repossessed automobiles. Furthermore, depressed wholesale prices for used automobiles may result from significant liquidations of rental or fleet inventories, and from increased volume of trade-ins due to promotional financing programs offered by new vehicle manufacturers. Decreased auction proceeds to us resulting from sales of used automobiles at depressed prices will result in losses and, in turn, reduced profitability. An increase in market interest rates may reduce our profitability. Our long-term profitability may be directly affected by the level of and fluctuations in interest rates. Sustained, significant increases in interest rates may adversely affect our liquidity and profitability by reducing the interest rate spread between the rate of interest we receive on our Contracts and interest rates that we pay under our outstanding line of credit facility. As interest rates increase, our gross interest rate spread on new originations will generally decline since the rates charged on the Contracts originated or purchased from dealers generally are limited by statutory maximums, restricting our opportunity to pass on increased interest costs. We monitor the interest rate environment and, on occasion, enter into interest rate swap agreements relating to a portion of our outstanding debt. Such agreements effectively convert a portion of our floating-rate debt to a fixed-rate, thus reducing the impact of interest rate changes on our interest expense. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, we had no interest rate swap agreements in place. On June 4, 2012 and July 30, 2012, the Company entered into interest rate swap agreements to convert a portion of its floating rate debt to a fixed rate, more closely matching the interest rate characteristics of finance receivables. The June 4, 2012 agreement provides for a five-year interest rate swap in which the Company pays a fixed rate of 1% and receives payments from the counterparty on the 1-month LIBOR rate. This swap has an effective date of June 13, 2012 and a notional amount of $25 million. The July 30, 2012 agreement provides for a five-year interest rate swap in which the Company pays a fixed rate of 0.87% and receives payments from the counterparty on the 1-month LIBOR rate. This swap has an effective date of August 13, 2012 and a notional amount of $25 million. The changes in the fair value of the interest rate swap agreements (unrealized gains and losses) are recorded in earnings. We will continue to evaluate interest rate swap pricing and we may or may not enter into additional interest rate swap agreements in the future. Our growth depends upon our ability to retain and attract a sufficient number of qualified employees. To a large extent, our growth strategy depends on the opening of new offices that focus primarily on purchasing Contracts and making direct loans in markets we have not previously served. Future expansion of our branch office network depends, in part, upon our ability to attract and retain qualified and experienced office managers and the ability of such managers to develop relationships with dealers that serve those markets. We generally do not open a new office until we have located and hired a qualified and experienced individual to manage the office. Typically, this individual will be familiar with local market conditions and have existing relationships with dealers in the area to be served. Although we believe that we can attract and retain qualified and experienced personnel as we proceed with planned expansion into new markets, no assurance can be given that we will be successful in doing so. Competition to hire personnel possessing the skills and experience required by us could contribute to an increase in our employee turnover rate. High turnover or an inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could have an adverse effect on our origination, delinquency, default and net loss rates and, ultimately, our business and financial condition. The loss of one of our key executives could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our growth and development to date have been largely dependent upon the services of Peter L. Vosotas, our Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Ralph T. Finkenbrink, our Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President-Finance. We do not maintain key-man life insurance policies on these executives. Although we believe that we have sufficient additional experienced management personnel to accommodate the loss of any key executive, the loss of services of one or more of these executives could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We are subject to risks associated with litigation. As a consumer finance company, we are subject to various consumer claims and litigation seeking damages and statutory penalties, based upon, among other things: • usury laws; • disclosure inaccuracies; • wrongful repossession; • violations of bankruptcy stay provisions; • certificate of title disputes; • fraud; • breach of contract; and • discriminatory treatment of credit applicants. 12 Table of Contents Some litigation against us could take the form of class action complaints by consumers. As the assignee of Contracts originated by dealers, we may also be named as a co-defendant in lawsuits filed by consumers principally against dealers. The damages and penalties claimed by consumers in these types of actions can be substantial. The relief requested by the plaintiffs varies but may include requests for compensatory, statutory and punitive damages. We also are periodically subject to other kinds of litigation typically experienced by businesses such as ours, including employment disputes and breach of contract claims. No assurances can be given that we will not experience material financial losses in the future as a result of litigation or other legal proceedings. The Dodd-Frank Act authorizes the newly created CFPB to adopt rules that could potentially have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial performance. Title X of the Dodd-Frank Act established the CFPB, which became operational on July 21, 2011. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFPB has regulatory, supervisory and enforcement powers over providers of consumer financial products, such as Contracts and the direct loans that we offer, including explicit supervisory authority to examine and require registration of installment lenders such as ourselves. Included among the powers afforded to the CFPB is the authority to adopt rules describing specified acts and practices as being “unfair,” “deceptive” or “abusive,” and hence unlawful. Although the Dodd-Frank Act expressly provides that the CFPB has no authority to establish usury limits, some consumer advocacy groups have suggested that certain forms of alternative consumer finance products, such as installment loans, should be a regulatory priority and it is possible that at some time in the future the CFPB could propose and adopt rules making such lending or other products that we may offer materially less profitable or impractical. Further, the CFPB may target specific features of loans by rulemaking that could cause us to cease offering certain products. Any such rules could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. The CFPB could also adopt rules imposing new and potentially burdensome requirements and limitations with respect to any of our current or future lines of business, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial performance. In addition to the Dodd-Frank Act’s grant of regulatory powers to the CFPB, the Dodd-Frank Act gives the CFPB authority to pursue administrative proceedings or litigation for violations of federal consumer financial laws. In these proceedings, the CFPB can obtain cease and desist orders (which can include orders for restitution or rescission of contracts, as well as other kinds of affirmative relief) and monetary penalties ranging from $5,000 per day for minor violations of federal consumer financial laws (including the CFPB’s own rules) to $25,000 per day for reckless violations and $1 million per day for knowing violations. If we are subject to such administrative proceedings, litigation, orders or monetary penalties in the future, this could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial performance. Also, where a company has violated Title X of the Dodd-Frank Act or CFPB regulations under Title X, the Dodd-Frank Act empowers state attorneys general and state regulators to bring civil actions for the kind of cease and desist orders available to the CFPB (but not for civil penalties). If the CFPB or one or more state officials believe we have violated the foregoing laws, they could exercise their enforcement powers in ways that would have a material adverse effect on us. We are subject to many other laws and governmental regulations, and any material violations of or changes in these laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and business operations. Our financing operations are subject to regulation, supervision and licensing under various other federal, state and local statutes and ordinances. Additionally, the procedures that we must follow in connection with the repossession of vehicles securing Contracts are regulated by each of the states in which we do business. The various federal, state and local statutes, regulations, and ordinances applicable to our business govern, among other things: • licensing requirements; • requirements for maintenance of proper records; • payment of required fees to certain states; • maximum interest rates that may be charged on loans to finance new and used vehicles; • debt collection practices; • proper disclosure to customers regarding financing terms; • privacy regarding certain customer data; • interest rates on loans to customers; • telephone solicitation of direct loan customers; and • collection of debts from loan customers who have filed bankruptcy. We believe that we maintain all material licenses and permits required for our current operations and are in substantial compliance with all applicable local, state and federal regulations. Our failure, or the failure by dealers who originate the Contracts we purchase, to maintain all requisite licenses and permits, and to comply with other regulatory requirements, could result in consumers having rights of rescission and other remedies that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Furthermore, any changes in applicable laws, rules and regulations, such as the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act and the creation of the CFPB, may make our compliance therewith more difficult or expensive or otherwise materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. 13 Table of Contents Our Chief Executive Officer holds a significant percentage of our common stock and may take actions adverse to your interests. Peter L. Vosotas, our Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, owned approximately 13.6% of our common stock as of June 1, 2013. As a result, he may be able to influence matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as mergers, consolidations and sales of assets. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination, which could cause the market price of our common stock to fall or prevent you from receiving a premium in such transaction. Our stock is lightly traded, which may limit your ability to resell your shares. The average daily trading volume of our shares on the NASDAQ Global Select Market for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013 was approximately 23,487 shares. Thus, our common stock is thinly traded. Thinly traded stock can be more volatile than stock trading in an active public market. Factors such as our financial results, the introduction of new products and services by us or our competitors, and various factors affecting the consumer-finance industry generally may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. In recent years, the stock market has experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and market prices for the stocks of many companies, including ours, have experienced wide price fluctuations that have not necessarily been related to their operating performance. Therefore, our shareholders may not be able to sell their shares at the volumes, prices, or times that they desire. We may experience problems with our integrated computer systems or be unable to keep pace with developments in technology. We use various technologies in our business, including telecommunication, data processing, and integrated computer systems. Technology changes rapidly. Our ability to compete successfully with other financing companies may depend on our ability to efficiently and cost-effectively implement technological changes. Moreover, to keep pace with our competitors, we may be required to invest in technological changes that do not necessarily improve our profitability. We utilize integrated computer systems to respond to customer inquiries and to monitor the performance of our Contract and direct loan portfolios and the performance of individual customers under our Contracts and direct loans. Problems with our systems’ operations could adversely impact our ability to monitor our portfolios or collect amounts due under our Contracts and direct loans, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 