Risk Factors—Risks Relating to Our Business and Structure—Regulations governing our operation as a business development company will affect our ability to, and the way in which we raise additional capital.” Regulation by the SBA Medallion Funding, Medallion Capital, and Freshstart each operate as Small Business Investment Companies, or SBIC’s. The SBIA authorizes the organization of SBIC’s as vehicles for providing equity capital, long term financing, and management assistance to small business concerns. The SBIA and the SBA regulations define a “small business concern” as a business that is independently owned and operated, which does not dominate its field of operation, and which (i) has a net worth, together with any affiliates, of $18.0 million or less and average annual net income after US federal income taxes for the preceding two years of $6.0 million or less (average annual net income is computed without the benefit of any carryover loss), or (ii) satisfies alternative criteria under SBA regulations that focus on the industry in which the business is engaged and the number of persons employed by the business or its gross revenues. In addition, at the end of each year, at least 20% of the total amount of loans made after April 25, 1994 must be made in “smaller businesses” which have a net worth of $6.0 million or less, and average net income after federal income taxes for the preceding two years of $2.0 million or less. SBA regulations also prohibit an SBIC from providing funds to a small business concern for certain purposes, such as relending and reinvestment. Medallion Funding is authorized to make loans to borrowers other than disadvantaged businesses (that is, businesses that are at least 50% owned, and controlled, and managed, on a day to day basis, by a person or persons whose participation in the free enterprise system is hampered because of social or economic disadvantage) if, at the time of the loan, Medallion Funding has in its portfolio outstanding loans to disadvantaged businesses with an aggregate cost basis equal to or exceeding the value of the unamortized repurchase discount under the preferred stock repurchase agreement between Medallion Funding and the SBA, which is currently zero. Under current SBA Regulations, the maximum rate of interest that Medallion Funding may charge may not exceed the higher of (i) 19% or (ii) the sum of (a) the higher of (i) that company’s weighted average cost of qualified borrowings, as determined under SBA Regulations, or (ii) the current SBA debenture rate, plus (b) 11%, rounded to the next lower eighth of one percent. As of December 31, 2010, the maximum rate of interest permitted on loans originated by Medallion Funding, Medallion Capital, and Freshstart was 19%. As of December 31, 2010, our outstanding medallion loans had a weighted average rate of interest 5.90% and our outstanding 16 Table of Contents commercial loans had a weighted average rate of interest of 12.44%. Current SBA regulations also require that each loan originated by an SBIC has a term between one and 20 years; loans to disadvantaged businesses also may be for a minimum term of one year. The SBA restricts the ability of SBICs to repurchase their capital stock, to retire their SBA debentures, and to lend money to their officers, directors, and employees, or invest in affiliates thereof. The SBA also prohibits, without prior SBA approval, a “change of control” or transfers which would result in any person (or group of persons acting in concert) owning 10% or more of any class of capital stock of an SBIC. A “change of control” is any event which would result in the transfer of the power, direct or indirect, to direct the management and policies of an SBIC, whether through ownership, contractual arrangements, or otherwise. Under SBA Regulations, without prior SBA approval, loans by licensees with outstanding SBA leverage to any single small business concern may not exceed 20% of an SBIC’s regulatory capital, as defined. Under the terms of the respective conversion agreements with the SBA, however, Medallion Funding is authorized to make loans to disadvantaged borrowers in amounts not exceeding 30% of its respective regulatory capital. SBICs must invest idle funds that are not being used to make loans in investments permitted under SBA regulations. These permitted investments include direct obligations of, or obligations guaranteed as to principal and interest by, the government of the US with a term of 15 months or less and deposits maturing in one year or less issued by an institution insured by the FDIC. These permitted investments must be maintained in (i) direct obligations of, or obligations guaranteed as to principal and interest by, the US, which mature within 15 months from the date of the investment; (ii) repurchase agreements with federally insured institutions with a maturity of seven days or less if the securities underlying the repurchase agreements are direct obligations of, or obligations guaranteed as to principal and interest by the US, and such securities must be maintained in a custodial account in a federally insured institution; (iii) certificates of deposit with a maturity of one year or less, issued by a federally insured institution; (iv) a deposit account in a federally insured institution, subject to withdrawal restriction of one year or less; (v) a checking account in a federally insured institution; or (vi) a reasonable petty cash fund. SBICs may purchase voting securities of small business concerns in accordance with SBA regulations. Although prior regulations prohibited an SBIC from controlling a small business concern except in limited circumstances, new regulations adopted by the SBA on October 22, 2002 (pursuant to Public Law 106-554) now allow an SBIC to exercise control over a small business for a period of seven years from the date on which the SBIC initially acquires its control position. This control period may be extended for an additional period of time with the SBA’s prior written approval. Regulation of Medallion Bank as an Industrial Bank In May 2002, we formed Medallion Bank, which received approval from the FDIC for federal deposit insurance in October 2003. Medallion Bank, a Utah-chartered industrial bank, is a depository institution subject to regulatory oversight and examination by both the FDIC and the Utah Department of Financial Institutions. Under its banking charter, Medallion Bank is empowered to make consumer and commercial loans, and may accept all FDIC-insured deposits other than demand deposits (checking accounts). The creation of Medallion Bank allows us to apply stable and low-cost bank deposit funding for key lending business activities throughout our business. Medallion Bank is subject to certain federal laws that restrict and control its ability to extend credit and provide or receive services between affiliates. In addition, the FDIC has regulatory authority to prohibit Medallion Bank from engaging in any unsafe or unsound practice in conducting its business. Medallion Bank is further subject to capital adequacy guidelines issued by the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council, or the FFIEC. These guidelines make regulatory capital requirements more sensitive to differences in risk profiles among banking organizations and consider off-balance sheet exposures in determining capital adequacy. Under the rules and regulations of the FFIEC, at least half of a bank’s total capital is required to be Tier I capital, comprised of common equity, retained earnings and a limited amount of non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock. The remaining capital, Tier II capital, may consist of other preferred stock, certain hybrid debt/equity instruments, a limited amount of term-subordinated debt, or a limited amount of the reserve for possible credit losses. The FFIEC has also adopted minimum leverage ratios for banks, which are calculated by dividing Tier I capital by total average assets. Recognizing that the risk-based capital standards address only credit risk, and not interest rate, liquidity, operational, or other risks, many banks are expected to maintain capital in excess of the minimum standards. In addition, pursuant to provisions of the FDIC Improvement Act of 1991, or FDICIA, and related regulations with respect to prompt corrective action, FDIC-insured institutions such as Medallion Bank may only accept brokered deposits without FDIC permission if they meet specified capital standards, and are subject to restrictions with respect to the interest they may pay on deposits unless they are well-capitalized. To be well-capitalized under the prompt corrective action provisions, a bank must have a ratio of 17 Table of Contents combined Tier I and Tier II capital to risk-weighted assets of not less than 10%, Tier I capital to risk-weighted assets of not less than 6%, and a Tier I to average assets of not less than 5%. We, the FDIC, and Medallion Bank have agreed that the capital levels of Medallion Bank will at all times meet or exceed the levels required for Medallion Bank to be considered well-capitalized under the FDIC rules and regulations, that Medallion Bank’s Tier I capital to total assets ratio will be maintained at not less than 15%, and that Medallion Bank will maintain an adequate allowance for loan and lease losses. Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and applicable regulations also impose restrictions on Medallion Bank. These restrictions limit the transfer of funds by a depository institution to certain of its affiliates, including us, in the form of loans, extensions of credit, investments, or purchases of assets. Sections 23A and 23B also require generally that the depository institution’s transactions with its affiliates be on terms no less favorable to Medallion Bank than comparable transactions with unrelated third parties. The USA Patriot Act and the International Money Laundering Abatement and Anti-Terrorist Financing Act of 2001, or the Patriot Act, was enacted on October 26, 2001, and is intended to detect and prosecute terrorism and international money laundering. The Patriot Act establishes new standards for verifying customer identification incidental to the opening of new accounts. Medallion Bank has undertaken appropriate measures to comply with the Patriot Act and associated regulations. Other provisions of the Patriot Act provide for special information sharing procedures governing communications with the government and other financial institutions with respect to suspected terrorists and money laundering activity, and enhancements to suspicious activity reporting, including electronic filing of suspicious activity reports over a secure filing network. Other Because we are an “insured depository institution” within the meaning of the Change in Bank Control Act and a “financial institution holding company” within the meaning of the Utah Financial Institutions Act, federal and Utah law and regulations prohibit any person or company from acquiring control of us without, in most cases, prior written approval of the FDIC or the Commissioner of Financial Institutions, as applicable. Under the Change in Bank Control Act, control is conclusively presumed if, among other things, a person or company acquires more than 25% of any class of our voting stock. A rebuttable presumption of control arises if a person or company acquires more than 10% of any class of voting stock and is subject to a number of specified “control factors” as set forth in the applicable regulations. Under the Utah Financial Institutions Act, control is defined as the power to vote 20% or more of any class of our voting securities by an individual or to vote more than 10% of any class of our voting securities by a person other than an individual. Investors are responsible for ensuring that they do not, directly or indirectly, acquire shares of our common stock in excess of the amount which can be acquired without regulatory approval. We may also be prohibited under the 1940 Act from knowingly participating in certain transactions with our affiliates without the prior approval of our board of directors who are not interested persons and, in some cases, prior approval by the SEC. We are periodically examined by the SEC for compliance with the 1940 Act. We are examined by the SBA annually for compliance with applicable SBA regulations. We are also periodically examined by the FDIC and the Department of Financial Institutions of the State of Utah (DFI). Medallion Bank is examined annually by the FDIC and the DFI. We are required to provide and maintain a bond issued by a reputable fidelity insurance company to protect us against larceny and embezzlement. Furthermore, as a business development company, we are prohibited from protecting any director or officer against any liability to us or our shareholders arising from willful misfeasance, bad faith, gross negligence, or reckless disregard of the duties involved in the conduct of such person’s office. We have adopted and implemented written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent violation of the federal securities laws, and intend to review these policies and procedures annually for their adequacy and the effectiveness of their implementation. We have designated a chief compliance officer to be responsible for administering our policies and procedures. Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and NASDAQ Corporate Governance Regulations The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, imposes a wide variety of regulatory requirements on publicly-held companies and their insiders. Many of these requirements affect us. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act has required us to review our policies and procedures to determine whether we comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the new regulations promulgated thereunder. We will continue to monitor our compliance with all future regulations that are adopted under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and will take actions necessary to ensure that we are in compliance therewith. 18 Table of Contents In addition, NASDAQ has adopted or is in the process of adopting corporate governance changes to its listing standards. We believe we are in compliance with such corporate governance listing standards. We will continue to monitor our compliance with all future listing standards and will take actions necessary to ensure that we are in compliance therewith. AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our corporate website is located at www.medallion.com. We make copies of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendment to those reports filed with or furnished to the SEC available to investors on or through our website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the SEC. Our SEC filings can be found in the For Investors section of our website, the address of which is http://www.medallion.com/investors.htm. Our Code of Ethical Conduct and Insider Trading Policy can be located in the Corporate Governance section of our website at http://www.medallion.com/investors_governance.htm. These documents, as well as our SEC filings are available in print to any stockholder who requests a copy from our Secretary. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business and Structure We have recently experienced a period of capital markets disruption and severe recession and we expect these conditions to improve very slowly over the next 18 months. The recent market conditions have materially and adversely affected the debt and equity capital markets in the US, which could have a negative impact on our business and operations. The US capital markets have experienced extreme volatility and disruption for more than 24 months as evidenced by a lack of liquidity in the debt capital markets, significant write-offs in the financial services sector, the repricing of credit risk in the broadly syndicated credit market and the failure of major financial institutions. These events have contributed to worsening general economic conditions that materially and adversely impacted the broader financial and credit markets and reduced the availability of credit and equity capital for the markets as a whole and financial services firms in particular. We believe that the US economy is emerging from a prolonged recession, and forecasts for 2011 and 2012 generally call for a very slow recovery from the economic recession. As a result, we believe these conditions may continue for a prolonged period of time, and possibly worsen in the future. A prolonged period of market illiquidity would continue to have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. Equity capital may be difficult to raise because, subject to some limited exceptions, we generally are not able to issue and sell our common stock at a price below net asset value per share. In addition, the debt capital that will be available, if at all, may be at a higher cost and on less favorable terms and conditions. We borrow money, which magnifies the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested, and may increase the risk of investing in us. Borrowings, also known as leverage, magnify the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested, and therefore increase the risk associated with investing in us. We borrow from and issue senior debt securities to banks and other lenders, and through long-term subordinated SBA debentures. These creditors have fixed dollar claims on our assets that are superior to the claims of our common shareholders. If the value of our assets increases, then leveraging would cause the net asset value attributable to our common stock to increase more sharply than it would have had we not leveraged. Conversely, if the value of our assets decreases, leveraging would cause net asset value to decline more sharply than it otherwise would have had we not leveraged. Similarly, any increase in our income in excess of interest payable on the borrowed funds would cause our net income to increase more than it would without the leverage, while any decrease in our income would cause net income to decline more sharply than it would have had we not borrowed. Such a decline could reduce the amount available for common stock dividend payments. As of December 31, 2010, we had $380,532,000 of outstanding indebtedness, which had a weighted average borrowing cost of 3.45% at December 31, 2010, and our wholly-owned unconsolidated portfolio companies, primarily Medallion Bank, had $468,957,000 of outstanding indebtedness at a weighted average borrowing cost of 1.34%. Consumer lending by Medallion Bank carries a higher risk of loss and could be adversely affected by an economic downturn. By its nature, lending to consumers that have blemishes on their credit reports carries with it a higher risk of loss. Although the net interest margins should be higher to compensate us for this increased risk, the current economic downturn could result in higher loss rates and lower returns than expected, and could affect the profitability of the consumer loan portfolio. 19 Table of Contents We are dependent upon our key investment personnel for our future success. We depend on the diligence, skill, and network of business contacts of the investment professionals we employ for sourcing, evaluating, negotiating, structuring, and monitoring our investments. Our future success will also depend, to a significant extent, on the continued service and coordination of our senior management team, particularly, Alvin Murstein, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Andrew M. Murstein, our President, and Larry D. Hall, our Chief Financial Officer. The departure of Messrs. Murstein or Mr. Hall, or any member of our senior management team, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objective. We operate in a highly regulated environment which may constrain our ability to grow our business. The 1940 Act imposes numerous constraints on the operations of business development companies. For example, business development companies are required to invest at least 70% of their total assets in qualifying assets, primarily securities of “eligible portfolio companies” (as defined under the 1940 Act), cash, cash equivalents, US government securities, and other high quality debt investments that mature in one year or less. Our regulatory requirements may hinder our ability to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities and, as a result, achieve our investment objective. In addition, we rely upon several exemptive orders from the SEC permitting us to consolidate our financial reporting and operate our business as presently conducted. Our failure to satisfy the conditions set forth in those exemptive orders could result in our inability to rely upon such orders or to cause the SEC to revoke the orders which could result in material changes in our financial reporting or the way in which we conduct our business. Furthermore, any failure to comply with the requirements imposed on business development companies by the 1940 Act could cause the SEC to bring an enforcement action against us. If we do not remain a business development company, we might be regulated as a closed-end investment company under the 1940 Act, which would further significantly decrease our operating flexibility. On February 27, 2009, Medallion Bank issued and sold, and the US Treasury purchased under the TARP Capital Purchase Program, or the CPP, (1) 11,800 shares of Medallion Bank’s Fixed Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A, and (2) a warrant, which was immediately exercised, to purchase up to 590 shares of Medallion Bank’s Fixed Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $11,800,000 in cash. On December 22, 2009, Medallion Bank issued and sold, and the US Treasury purchased under the CPP, (1) 9,698 shares of Medallion Bank’s Fixed Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series C, and (2) a warrant, which was immediately exercised, to purchase up to 55 shares of Medallion Bank’s Fixed Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series D, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $9,698,000 in cash. The US Congress, through the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, or the EESA, and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, or the ARRA, has imposed a number of restrictions and limitations on the operations of CPP participants. The interim final rule promulgated pursuant to Section 111 of the EESA, as amended by the ARRA, prescribes certain standards for compensation and corporate governance for CPP participants (which we believe to include parent companies such as us). The rules and regulations applicable to CPP participants continue to evolve and their scope, timing and effect cannot be predicted. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, was signed into law on July 21, 2010. The Dodd-Frank Act significantly changes federal financial services regulation and affects, among other things, the lending, deposit, investment, trading, and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations. The federal agencies have significant discretion in issuing these rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the effect of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. As such, we cannot predict and may not be able to anticipate all the effects of the Dodd-Frank Act on our financial condition or operations. Federal and state law may discourage certain acquisitions of our common stock which could have a material adverse effect on our shareholders. Because we are an “insured depository institution” within the meaning of the Change in Bank Control Act and a “financial institution holding company” within the meaning of the Utah Financial Institutions Act, federal and Utah law and regulations prohibit any person or company from acquiring control of us without, in most cases, prior written approval of the FDIC or the Commissioner of Financial Institutions, as applicable. Under the Change in Bank Control Act, control is conclusively presumed if, among other things, a person or company acquires more than 25% of any class of our voting stock. A rebuttable presumption of control arises if a person or company acquires more than 10% of any class of voting stock and is subject to a number of specified “control factors” as set forth in the applicable regulations. Under the Utah Financial Institutions Act, control is defined as the power to vote 20% or more of any class of our voting securities by an individual or to vote more than 10% of any class of our voting securities by a person other than an individual. Investors are responsible for ensuring that they do not, directly or indirectly, acquire shares of our common stock in excess of the amount which can be acquired without regulatory approval. These provisions could delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our shareholders, or otherwise adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 20 Table of Contents Regulations governing our operation as a business development company will affect our ability to, and the way in which, we raise additional capital. Our business may periodically require capital. We may acquire additional capital from the following sources: Senior Securities and Other Indebtedness. We may issue debt securities or preferred stock, and/or borrow money from banks or other financial institutions, which we refer to collectively as senior securities, up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. If we issue senior securities, including debt or preferred stock, we will be exposed to additional risks, including the following: • Under the provisions of the 1940 Act, we are permitted, as a business development company, to issue senior securities only in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% after each issuance of senior securities. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this test. If that happens, we may be restricted from issuing additional debt, may be limited in making distributions on our stock, and may be required to sell a portion of our investments and, depending on the nature of our leverage, to repay a portion of our debt at a time when such sales and/or repayments may be disadvantageous. • Any amounts that we use to service our debt or make payments on preferred stock will not be available for dividends to our common shareholders. • It is likely that any senior securities or other indebtedness we issue will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. Additionally, some of these securities or other indebtedness may be rated by rating agencies, and in obtaining a rating for such securities and other indebtedness, we may be required to abide by operating and investment guidelines that further restrict operating and financial flexibility. • We and, indirectly, our shareholders will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities and other indebtedness. • Preferred stock or any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences, and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock, including separate voting rights, and could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control to the detriment of the holders of our common stock. Additional Common Stock. We are not generally able to issue and sell our common stock at a price below net asset value per share. We may, however, sell our common stock, warrants, options, or rights to acquire our common stock, at a price below the current net asset value of the common stock if our Board of Directors determines that such sale is in our best interests and that of our shareholders, and our shareholders approve such sale. In any such case, the price at which our securities are to be issued and sold may not be less than a price which, in the determination of our Board of Directors, closely approximates the market value of such securities (less any distributing commission or discount). We may also make rights offerings to our shareholders at prices per share less than the net asset value per share, subject to applicable requirements of the 1940 Act. If we raise additional funds by issuing more common stock or senior securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, our common stock, the percentage ownership of our shareholders at that time would decrease and they may experience dilution. Moreover, we can offer no assurance that we will be able to issue and sell additional equity securities in the future, on favorable terms or at all. If our primary investments are deemed not to be qualifying assets, we could be deemed to be in violation of the 1940 Act. As a business development company, we are not permitted to acquire any assets other than “qualifying assets” unless, at the time of such acquisition, at least 70% of our total assets are qualifying assets. Our investment in Medallion Bank may constitute an ineligible investment. As of December 31, 2010, up to 27% of our total assets were invested in ineligible investments. At the end of each fiscal quarter, we may take proactive steps to prospectively preserve investment flexibility in the next quarter which is assessed against our total assets at our most recent quarter end. We can accomplish this in many ways including purchasing US Treasury bills or other investment-grade debt securities, and closing out our position on a net cash basis subsequent to quarter end. However, if such proactive measures are ineffective and our primary investments are deemed not to be qualifying assets, we could be deemed in violation of the 1940 Act, which could have a material effect on our business. We will be subject to corporate-level income tax if we are unable to qualify as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code. To obtain and maintain RIC tax treatment under the Code, we must meet the following annual distribution, income source, and asset diversification requirements. • The annual distribution requirement for a RIC will be satisfied if we distribute to our shareholders on an annual basis at least 90% of our net ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any, and at least 90% of our net tax exempt income. Because we use debt financing, we are subject to certain asset coverage ratio requirements under the 1940 Act and financial covenants under loan and credit agreements that could, under certain circumstances, restrict us from making distributions necessary to satisfy the distribution requirement. If we 21 Table of Contents are unable to obtain cash from other sources, we could fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment and thus become subject to corporate-level income taxes. • The income source requirement will be satisfied if we obtain at least 90% of our income for each year from dividends, interest, gains from the sale of stock or securities, or similar sources. • The asset diversification requirement will be satisfied if we meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each quarter of our taxable year. Failure to meet those requirements may result in our having to dispose of certain investments quickly in order to prevent the loss of RIC status. Because most of our investments will be in private companies, and therefore will be relatively illiquid, any such dispositions could be made at disadvantageous prices and could result in substantial losses. If we do not qualify as a RIC for more than two consecutive years, and then seek to requalify and elect RIC status, we would be required to recognize gain to the extent of any unrealized appreciation on our assets unless we make a special election to pay corporate-level tax on any such unrealized appreciation recognized during the succeeding 10-year period. If we fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment for any reason and are subject to corporate income tax, the resulting corporate taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution and the amount of our distributions. In addition, the asset coverage and distribution requirements impose significant cash flow management restrictions on us and limit our ability to retain earnings to cover periods of loss, provide for future growth, and pay for extraordinary items. Additionally, we could fail to satisfy the requirement that a RIC derive at least 90% of its gross income from qualifying sources, with the result that we would not qualify as a RIC. Qualification as a RIC is made on an annual basis and, although we and some of our subsidiaries have qualified in the past, we cannot assure you that we will qualify for such treatment in the future. A change in our treatment of losses recognized on worthless loans could result in a decrease in taxable income. In the fourth quarter of 2010, based on developments under the Code and after discussions with external advisers, our Board of Directors determined that the loans received in connection with our lending activities were “accounts or notes receivables acquired in the ordinary course of a trade or business for services” for purposes of Section 1221(a)(4) of the Code. As a result, commencing with the tax year beginning January 1, 2010, we intend to treat losses recognized on worthless loans as ordinary losses rather than as capital losses. Our Board of Directors further determined that we may take such position in tax returns subsequently filed without obtaining prior IRS approval. The change in the characterization of a loss resulting from a worthless loan from a capital loss to an ordinary loss could materially impact the amount or character of the dividends received by our shareholders. We are required to distribute 90% of our taxable income in order to maintain our RIC status. In the event losses from worthless loans are treated as ordinary losses, those losses will offset taxable income in the taxable year in which such losses are recognized. This could result in a decrease in our taxable income which could result in a decrease in our dividend. Alternatively, if we choose to maintain our current level of dividend, an increased portion of the dividend could be deemed to be a return of capital to the shareholder. The Code’s diversification requirements may limit our ability to expand our business. RIC qualification rules require that at the end of each quarter of our taxable year, (i) at least 50% of the market value of our assets must be represented by cash, securities of other RICs, US government securities, and other securities, with such other securities limited, in respect of any one issuer, to an amount not greater than 5% of our assets and not greater than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of such issuer and (ii) not more than 25% of the value of our assets may be invested in the securities (other than US government securities or securities of other RICs) of any one issuer, any two or more issuers of which 20% or more of the voting stock is held by us and that are determined to be engaged in the same or similar trades or businesses or related trades or businesses or in the securities of one or more qualified publicly traded partnerships. As of December 31, 2010, our largest investment subject to this test was our investment in Medallion Bank, representing 16% of our RIC assets. No other investments were more than 5% of our RIC assets. We will continue to monitor the levels of this and any other investment concentrations in conjunction with the diversification tests. We may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income. For US federal income tax purposes, we will include in taxable income certain amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as original issue discount, which may arise if we receive warrants in connection with the origination of a loan or possibly in other circumstances, or contractual payment-in-kind interest, which represents contractual interest added to the loan balance and due at the 22 Table of Contents end of the loan term. Such original issue discount or increases in loan balances as a result of payment-in-kind interest will be included in income before we receive any corresponding cash payments. We also may be required to include in income certain other amounts that we will not receive in cash. Since, in certain cases, we may recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income, we may have difficulty meeting the annual distribution requirement necessary to achieve and maintain RIC tax treatment under the Code. Accordingly, we may have to sell some of our investments at times and/or at prices we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital, or reduce new investment originations for this purpose. If we are not able to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment and thus become subject to corporate-level income tax. Our SBIC subsidiaries may be unable to meet the investment company requirements, which could result in the imposition of an entity-level tax. Some of our subsidiaries are subject to the SBIA. Our SBIC subsidiaries that are also RICs may be prohibited by the SBIA from making the distributions necessary to qualify as a RIC. Each year, in order to comply with the SBA regulations and the RIC distribution requirements, we must request and receive a waiver of the SBA’s restrictions. While the current policy of the SBA’s Office of SBIC Operations is to grant such waivers if the SBIC makes certain offsetting adjustments to its paid-in capital and surplus accounts, we cannot assure you that this will continue to be the SBA’s policy or that our subsidiaries will have adequate capital to make the required adjustments. If our subsidiaries are unable to obtain a waiver, compliance with the SBA regulations may result in loss of RIC status and a consequent imposition of an entity-level tax. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. We compete for investments with other business development companies and other investment funds as well as traditional financial services companies such as commercial banks and credit unions. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical, and marketing resources than we do. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments. These characteristics could allow our competitors to consider a wider variety of investments, establish more relationships, and offer better pricing and more flexible structuring than us. We may lose investment opportunities if we do not match our competitors’ pricing, terms, and structure. If we are forced to match our competitors’ pricing, terms, and structure, we may not be able to achieve acceptable returns on our investments or may bear substantial risk of capital loss. Furthermore, many of our competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a business development company. We cannot assure you that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time. Changes in interest rates may affect our cost of capital and net investment income. Because we borrow to fund our investments, a portion of our income is dependent upon the difference between the interest rate at which we borrow funds and the interest rate at which we invest these funds. A portion of our investments, such as taxi medallion loans, will have fixed interest rates, while a portion of our borrowings will likely have floating interest rates. As a result, a significant change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our net investment income. In periods of rising interest rates, our cost of funds could increase, which would reduce our net investment income. We may hedge against interest rate fluctuations by using standard hedging instruments, subject to applicable legal requirements. These activities may limit our ability to participate in the benefits of lower interest rates with respect to the hedged portfolio. Adverse developments resulting from changes in interest rates or hedging transactions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Also, we will have to rely on our counterparties to perform their obligations under such hedges. We depend on cash flow from our subsidiaries to make dividend payments and other distributions to our shareholders. We are primarily a holding company, and we derive most of our operating income and cash flow from our subsidiaries. As a result, we rely heavily upon distributions from our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to make dividend payments and other distributions to our shareholders. Funds are provided to us by our subsidiaries through dividends and payments on intercompany indebtedness, but we cannot assure you that our subsidiaries will be in a position to continue to make these dividend or debt payments. Furthermore, as a condition of its approval by its regulators, Medallion Bank is required to maintain a 15% capital ratio, which may inhibit its ability to declare and pay dividends, which are further restricted by the TARP to $4,000,000 per year. 23 Table of Contents Medallion Bank’s use of brokered deposit sources for its deposit-gathering activities may not be available when needed. Medallion Bank relies on the established brokered deposit market to originate deposits to fund its operations. While Medallion Bank has developed contractual relationships with a diversified group of investment brokers, and the brokered deposit market is well developed and utilized by many banking institutions, conditions could change that might affect the availability of deposits. If the capital levels at Medallion Bank fall below the “well-capitalized” level, or if Medallion Bank experiences a period of sustained operating losses, the cost of attracting deposits from the brokered deposit market could increase significantly, and the ability of Medallion Bank to raise deposits from this source could be impaired. Medallion Bank’s ability to manage its growth to stay within the “well-capitalized” level, and the capital level currently required by the FDIC, which is also considerably higher than the level required to be classified as “well-capitalized”, is critical to Medallion Bank’s retaining open access to this funding source. A decrease in prevailing interest rates may lead to more loan prepayments, which could adversely affect our business. Our borrowers generally have the right to prepay their loans upon payment of a fee ranging from 30 to 120 days interest for standard commodity loans, and for higher amounts, as negotiated, for larger more custom loan arrangements. A borrower is likely to exercise prepayment rights at a time when the interest rate payable on the borrower’s loan is high relative to prevailing interest rates. In a lower interest rate environment, we will have difficulty re-lending prepaid funds at comparable rates, which may reduce the net interest income that we receive. When this occurs, we will generally reinvest these proceeds in temporary investments, pending their future investment in new portfolio companies. These temporary investments will typically have substantially lower yields than the debt being prepaid, and we could experience significant delays in reinvesting these amounts. Any future investment in a new portfolio company may also be at lower yields than the debt that was repaid. As a result, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if a substantial number of our portfolio companies elect to prepay amounts owed to us and we are not able to reinvest the proceeds for comparable yields in a timely fashion. Additionally, prepayments could negatively impact our return on equity, which could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. Our investment portfolio is, and will continue to be, recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by our management and approved by our Board of Directors and, as a result, there is, and will continue to be, uncertainty as to the value of our portfolio investments. Under the 1940 Act, we are required to carry our portfolio investments at market value or, if there is no readily available market value, at fair value as determined by our management and approved by our Board of Directors. Unlike other lending institutions, we are not permitted to maintain a general reserve for anticipated losses. Instead, we are required by the 1940 Act to specifically value each individual investment and record an unrealized gain or loss for any asset we believe has increased or decreased in value. Typically, there is not a public market for most of the investments in which we have invested and will generally continue to invest. As a result, we value our investments on a quarterly basis based on a determination of their fair value made in good faith and in accordance with the written guidelines approved by our Board of Directors. The types of factors that may be considered in determining the fair value pricing of our investments include the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company’s earnings and its ability to make payments on its indebtedness, the markets in which the portfolio company does business, comparison to publicly traded companies, discounted cash flow, and other relevant factors. Because such valuations, and particularly valuations of private securities and private companies, are inherently uncertain, the valuations may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates. As a result, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these investments existed. Our net asset value could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of our investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon the disposal of such securities. Considering these factors, we have determined that the fair value of our portfolio is below its cost basis. As of December 31, 2010, our net unrealized depreciation on investments other than in controlled subsidiaries, foreclosed properties, and other assets was $11,016,000 or 2.23% of our investment portfolio. The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business. We generally make investments in private companies. Substantially all of these securities are subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or are otherwise less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we had previously recorded our investments. We may also face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a portfolio company to the extent that we have material non-public information regarding such portfolio company. In addition, the illiquidity of our loan portfolio and investments may adversely affect our ability to dispose of loans at times when it may be advantageous for us to liquidate such portfolio or investments. In addition, if we were required to liquidate some or all of the investments in the portfolio, the proceeds of such liquidation may be significantly less than the current value of such investments. Because we borrow money to make loans and investments, our net operating income is dependent upon the difference between the rate at which we borrow funds and the rate at which we invest these funds. As a result, there can be no assurance that a 24 Table of Contents significant change in market interest rates will not have a material adverse effect on our interest income. In periods of sharply rising interest rates, our cost of funds would increase, which would reduce our net operating income before net realized and unrealized gains. We use a combination of long-term and short-term borrowings and equity capital to finance our investing activities. Our long-term fixed-rate investments are financed primarily with short-term floating-rate debt, and to a lesser extent by term fixed-rate debt. We may use interest rate risk management techniques in an effort to limit our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. Such techniques may include various interest rate hedging activities to the extent permitted by the 1940 Act. We have analyzed the potential impact of changes in interest rates on net interest income. Assuming that the balance sheet were to remain constant and no actions were taken to alter the existing interest rate sensitivity, and including the impact on Medallion Bank, a hypothetical immediate 1% increase in interest rates would have positively impacted net increase in net assets resulting from operations as of December 31, 2010 by approximately $1,291,000 on an annualized basis, compared to a positive impact of $1,149,000 at December 31, 2009, and the impact of such an immediate increase of 1% over a one year period would have been ($2,026,000) at December 31, 2010, compared to ($1,943,000) for December 31, 2009. Although management believes that this measure is indicative of our sensitivity to interest rate changes, it does not adjust for potential changes in credit quality, size, and composition of the assets on the balance sheet, and other business developments that could affect net increase in net assets resulting from operations in a particular quarter or for the year taken as a whole. Accordingly, no assurances can be given that actual results would not differ materially from the potential outcome simulated by these estimates. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly results. We could experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors, including our ability to make investments in companies that meet our investment criteria, the interest rate payable on the debt securities we acquire, the level of our expenses, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets, and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may affect any market for our common stock, impact the businesses in which we invest, and harm our operations and profitability. Terrorist attacks may harm our results of operations and your investment. We cannot assure you that there will not be further terrorist attacks against the US or US businesses. Such attacks or armed conflicts in the US or elsewhere may impact the businesses in which we invest directly, or indirectly by undermining economic conditions in the United States. In addition, a substantial portion of our business is focused in the New York City metropolitan area, which suffered a terrorist attack in 2001. Another terrorist attack in New York City could severely impact our results of operations. Losses resulting from terrorist attacks are generally uninsurable. Our financial condition and results of operations will depend on our ability to manage growth effectively. Our ability to achieve our investment objective will depend on our ability to grow, which will depend, in turn, on our management team’s ability to identify, evaluate, and monitor, and our ability to finance and invest in, companies that meet our investment criteria. Accomplishing this result on a cost-effective basis will be largely a function of our management team’s handling of the investment process, its ability to provide competent, attentive, and efficient services, and our access to financing on acceptable terms. In addition to monitoring the performance of our existing investments, members of our management team and our investment professionals may also be called upon to provide managerial assistance to our portfolio companies. These demands on their time may distract them or slow the rate of investment. In order to grow, we will need to hire, train, supervise, and manage new employees. However, we cannot assure you that any such employees will contribute to the success of our business. Any failure to manage our future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Acquisitions may lead to difficulties that could adversely affect our operations. By their nature, corporate acquisitions entail certain risks, including those relating to undisclosed liabilities, the entry into new markets, operational, and personnel matters. We may have difficulty integrating acquired operations or managing problems due to sudden increases in the size of our loan portfolio. In such instances, we might be required to modify our operating systems and procedures, hire additional staff, obtain and integrate new equipment, and complete other tasks appropriate for the assimilation of new business activities. We cannot assure you that we would be successful, if and when necessary, in minimizing these inherent risks or in establishing systems and procedures which will enable us to effectively achieve our desired results in respect of any future acquisitions. 25 Table of Contents Our ability to enter into transactions with our affiliates is restricted. The 1940 Act restricts our ability to knowingly participate in certain transactions with our affiliates. These restrictions limit our ability to buy or sell any security from or to our affiliates, or engage in “joint” transactions with our affiliates, which could include investments in the same portfolio company (whether at the same or different times). With respect to controlling or certain closely affiliated persons, we will generally be prohibited from engaging in such transactions absent the prior approval of the SEC. With respect to other affiliated persons, we may engage in such transactions only with the prior approval of our independent directors. The SBA restricts the ability of SBICs to lend money to their officers, directors, and employees, or invest in affiliates thereof. Medallion Bank is subject to certain federal laws that restrict and control its ability to provide or receive services between affiliates. Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and applicable regulations also impose restrictions on Medallion Bank. These restrictions limit the transfer of funds by a depository institution to certain of its affiliates, including us, in the form of loans, extensions of credit, investments, or purchases of assets. Sections 23A and 23B also require generally that the depository institution’s transactions with its affiliates be on terms no less favorable to Medallion Bank than comparable transactions with unrelated third parties. Our Board of Directors may change our operating policies and strategies without prior notice or shareholder approval, the effects of which may be adverse. Our Board of Directors has the authority to modify or waive our current operating policies and strategies without prior notice and without shareholder approval. We cannot predict the effect any changes to our current operating policies and strategies would have on our business, operating results, and value of our stock. However, the effects might be adverse, which could negatively impact our ability to pay you dividends and cause you to lose all or part of your investment. 26 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Investments Lending to small businesses involves a high degree of risk and is highly speculative. Lending to small businesses involves a high degree of business and financial risk, which can result in substantial losses and should be considered speculative. Our borrower base consists primarily of small business owners that may have limited resources and that are generally unable to obtain financing from traditional sources. There is generally no publicly available information about these small business owners, and we must rely on the diligence of our employees and agents to obtain information in connection with our credit decisions. In addition, these small businesses often do not have audited financial statements. Some smaller businesses have narrower product lines and market shares than their competition. Therefore, they may be more vulnerable to customer preferences, market conditions, or economic downturns, which may adversely affect the return on, or the recovery of, our investment in these businesses. Our portfolio is and may continue to be concentrated in a limited number of portfolio companies and industries, which will subject us to a risk of significant loss if any of these companies defaults on its obligations to us or by a downturn in the particular industry. Our portfolio is and may continue to be concentrated in a limited number of portfolio companies and industries. As of December 31, 2010, investments in New York City taxi medallion loans represented approximately 76% of our managed taxi medallion loans. Beyond the asset diversification requirements associated with our qualification as a RIC, we do not have fixed guidelines for diversification, and while we are not targeting any specific industries, our investments are, and could continue to be, concentrated in relatively few industries. As a result, the aggregate returns we realize may be adversely affected if a small number of investments perform poorly or if we need to write down the value of any one investment. Additionally, a downturn in any particular industry in which we are invested could also negatively impact the aggregate returns we realize. If we are unable to continue to diversify geographically, our business may be adversely affected if the New York City taxicab industry experiences a sustained economic downturn. A significant portion of our loan revenue is derived from New York City medallion loans collateralized by New York City taxicab medallions. An economic downturn in the New York City taxicab industry could lead to an increase in defaults on our medallion loans. We cannot assure you that we will be able to sufficiently diversify our operations geographically. An economic downturn such as what we have been experiencing could result in certain of our commercial and consumer loan customers experiencing declines in business activities and/or personal resources, which could lead to difficulties in their servicing of their loans with us, and increasing the level of delinquencies, defaults, and loan losses in our commercial and consumer loan portfolios. Changes in taxicab industry regulations that result in the issuance of additional medallions or increases in the expenses involved in operating a medallion could lead to a decrease in the value of our medallion loan collateral. Every city in which we originate medallion loans, and most other major cities in the US, limits the supply of taxicab medallions. This regulation results in supply restrictions that support the value of medallions. Actions that loosen these restrictions and result in the issuance of additional medallions into a market could decrease the value of medallions in that market. If this were to occur, the value of the collateral securing our then outstanding medallion loans in that market could be adversely affected. For example, New York City is considering a proposal to permit cars for hire to pick up street hails in boroughs outside of Manhattan. We are unable to forecast with any degree of certainty whether any other potential increases in the supply of medallions will occur. In New York City, Chicago, Boston, and in other markets where we originate medallion loans, taxicab fares are generally set by government agencies. Expenses associated with operating taxicabs are largely unregulated. As a result, the ability of taxicab operators to recoup increases in expenses is limited in the short term. Escalating expenses, such as rising gas prices, can render taxicab operations less profitable, could cause borrowers to default on loans from us, and could potentially adversely affect the value of our collateral. A significant portion of our loan revenue is derived from loans collateralized by New York City taxicab medallions. According to New York City TLC data, over the past 20 years New York City taxicab medallions have appreciated in value from under $100,000 to $850,000 for corporate medallions and $624,000 for individual medallions. However, for sustained periods during that time, taxicab medallions have declined in value. Since December 31, 2008, the value of New York City taxicab medallions increased by approximately 13% for individual medallions and 14% for corporate medallions. 27 Table of Contents Our portfolio companies may incur debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, our investments in such companies. We invest primarily in senior secured loans, junior secured loans, and subordinated debt issued by small- to mid-sized companies. Our portfolio companies may have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, the debt in which we invest. By their terms, such debt instruments may entitle the holders to receive payment of interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments with respect to the debt instruments in which we invest. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization, or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution. After repaying such senior creditors, such portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to us. In the case of debt ranking equally with debt instruments in which we invest, we would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization, or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company. There may be circumstances where our debt investments could be subordinated to claims of other creditors or we could be subject to lender liability claims. Even though we may have structured most of our investments as senior loans, if one of our portfolio companies were to go bankrupt, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which we actually provided managerial assistance to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might recharacterize our debt investment and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to that of other creditors. We may also be subject to lender liability claims for actions taken by us with respect to a borrower’s business or instances where we exercise control over the borrower. It is possible that we could become subject to a lender’s liability claim, including as a result of actions taken in rendering significant managerial assistance. We may not control many of our portfolio companies. We may not control many of our portfolio companies, even though we may have board representation or board observation rights, and our debt agreements may contain certain restrictive covenants. As a result, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company in which we invest may make business decisions with which we disagree, and the management of such company may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve our interests as debt investors. We may not realize gains from our equity investments. Certain investments that we have made in the past and may make in the future include warrants or other equity securities. In addition, we may from time to time make non-control, equity co-investments in companies in conjunction with private equity sponsors. Our goal is ultimately to realize gains upon our disposition of such equity interests. However, the equity interests we receive may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. We also may be unable to realize any value if a portfolio company does not have a liquidity event, such as a sale of the business, recapitalization, or public offering, which would allow us to sell the underlying equity interests. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 