Risk Factors From time to time, including in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we publish forward-looking statements, as disclosed in our Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements, beginning immediately following the Table of Contents of this Annual Report. We note that a variety of factors could cause our actual results and experience to differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed or anticipated in our forward-looking statements. The factors listed below are illustrative of the risks and uncertainties that may arise and that may be detailed from time to time in our public announcements and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as on Forms 8-K, 10-Q and 10-K. We undertake no obligation to make any revisions to the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of the filing of this report. 21 We May Not Continue To Pay Dividends On Our Equity Securities. We have paid a dividend of $0.08 per share of our common stock in the last fourteen fiscal quarters and have declared a dividend payable on or about March 10, 2007 to holders of record of our common stock at the close of business on March 1, 2007. The declaration of each such dividend was approved by our Board of Directors upon the conclusion of each quarter. We can give you no assurances that our Board will declare any dividends in future fiscal periods. Any further declarations will depend upon our performance, the level of our then current and retained earnings and other pertinent factors relating to our financial position. You should not rely on any prior approvals of our Board as an indicator of its intent to approve the declaration of any dividends in the future. Advertisers May Be Reluctant To Devote A Portion Of Their Budgets To Internet Advertising And Digital Marketing Solutions. 22 Companies doing business on the Internet must compete with traditional advertising media, including television, radio, cable and print, for a share of advertisers' total marketing budgets. Potential customers may be reluctant to devote a significant portion of their marketing budget to Internet advertising or digital marketing if they perceive the Internet to be a limited or ineffective marketing medium. Any shift in marketing budgets away from Internet advertising spending or digital marketing solutions could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We May Not Be Able To Comply With The Adoption Of Newly Created Laws And Governmental Regulation Of The Internet Industry And New Restrictions For Internet Use May Increase Our Cost Of Doing Business. As a direct-to-consumer marketing company we are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations designed to protect consumers that govern certain of our marketing practices, all as more fully set forth in this Annual Report under the heading “Business - Government Regulation.” Demand For Our Services May Decline Due To The Proliferation Of "Spam" And Software Designed To Prevent Its Delivery. 23 Our business may be adversely affected by the proliferation of "spam" and other unwanted Internet solicitations. In response to such proliferation, Internet Service Providers ("ISP's") have been adopting technologies, and individual computer users are installing software on their computers that are designed to prevent the delivery of certain Internet advertising, including legitimate solicitations such as those delivered by us. We cannot assure you that the number of ISP's and individual computer users who employ these or other similar technologies and software will not increase, thereby diminishing the efficacy of our services. In the case that one or more of these technologies are widely adopted or the software widely utilized, demand for our services would decline. During Fiscal 2006 we recognized a decline in our email marketing revenue of approximately 3.3% when compared to Fiscal 2005. We believe that such decline is the result of the factors mentioned above, and may continue to decline at higher rates in future fiscal periods. We May Be Unable To Keep Up With The Rapid Technological Changes That May Occur In The Internet And E-Commerce Arenas Which Would Adversely Affect Our Business Operations. To remain competitive, we must enhance and continually improve the responsiveness, functionality and features of our services. The Internet and the online commerce industry are characterized by rapid technological change, changes in user and customer requirements and preferences, frequent new product and service introductions embodying new technologies, and the emergence of new industry standards and practices that could render existing technology and systems obsolete at any time. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to license leading technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of prospective consumers, and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. The development of a website and other proprietary technology entails significant technical and business risks. There can be no assurance that we will use new technologies effectively or adapt existing websites and operational systems to customer requirements or emerging industry standards. If we are unable, for technical, legal, financial or other reasons, to adapt in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. 24 We Depend On Third-Party Internet And Telecommunications Providers, Over Whom We Have No Control, To Operate Our Services. Interruptions In These Services Caused By One Of The Providers Could Have An Adverse Effect On Revenue And Securing Alternate Sources Of These Services Could Significantly Increase Expenses. We depend heavily on several third-party providers of Internet and related telecommunication services, including hosting and co-location facilities, in operating our services. These companies may not continue to provide services to us without disruptions in service, at the current cost or at all. The costs associated with any transition to a new service provider would be substantial, requiring the reengineering of computer systems and telecommunications infrastructure to accommodate a new service provider. This process would be both expensive and time-consuming. In addition, failure of the Internet and related telecommunications providers to provide the data communications capacity in the time frame required by us could cause interruptions in the services we provide. Unanticipated problems affecting our computer and telecommunications systems in the future could cause interruptions in the delivery of services, causing a loss of revenue and potential loss of customers, all of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 25 We Face Intense Competition In The Marketing Of Our Services and Our Clients’ Products. We face intense competition in the direct marketing of our services and of clients’ products and services. Many of our competitors are well established, have reputations for success in the development and marketing of services and have significant financial, marketing, distribution, personnel and other resources. These financial and other capabilities permit such companies to implement extensive advertising and promotional campaigns, both generally and in response to efforts by additional competitors to enter into new markets and introduce new services. Our Success Depends On Our Ability To Continue Forming Relationships With Other Internet And Interactive Media Content, Service And Product Providers. 26 The Internet includes an ever-increasing number of businesses that offer and market consumer products and services. These entities offer advertising space on their websites, as well as profit sharing arrangements for joint effort marketing programs. We expect that with the increasing number of entrants into the Internet commerce arena, advertising costs and joint effort marketing programs will become extremely competitive. This competitive environment might prevent us from executing profit generating advertising and joint effort marketing programs in the future. This competitive environment may also prevent us from providing entertaining content and product and service providers from marketing their products and services through our websites. If we fail to continue establishing new, and maintain and expand existing, profitable advertising and joint marketing arrangements, we may suffer substantial adverse consequences to our financial condition and results of operations. The Outcome Of Litigation In Which We Have Been Named As A Defendant Is Unpredictable And A Materially Adverse Decision In Any Such Matter Could Have A Material Adverse Affect On Our Financial Position And Results Of Operations. We are named as defendants in litigation matters, as described under "Legal Proceedings" in our periodic reports filed pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The defense of these claims may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. Although we believe that we have meritorious defenses to the claims made in each and all of the litigation matters to which we are a named party, and intend to contest each lawsuit vigorously, no assurances can be given that the results of these matters will be favorable to us. A materially adverse resolution of any of these lawsuits could have a material adverse affect on our financial position and results of operations. 27 We Are Dependent On Our Key Personnel For Managing Our Business Affairs. The Loss Of Their Services Could Materially And Adversely Affect The Conduct Of Our Business. We are and will be highly dependent upon the efforts of the members of our management team, particularly those of our Chief Executive Officer, Jeffrey L. Schwartz, and our President, Andrew Stollman. The loss of the services of Messrs. Schwartz or Stollman may impede the execution of our business strategy and the achievement of our business objectives. We can give you no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business. Our failure to recruit key personnel or our failure to adequately train, motivate and supervise our existing or future personnel will adversely affect our operations. Our Business Plan Is Subject To Change And Any Expectations We And You May Have For Its Successful Implementation May Be Unrealized. 28 Our business plan and strategy may quickly change based upon facts or circumstances currently unforeseen by us. Due to the ever changing nature of the e-commerce industry and the Internet, we, based upon these unforeseen facts or circumstances, may change our business plan at the discretion of our Management and Board of Directors with results, adverse or otherwise, that we cannot now foresee. The Concentration Of Ownership Of Our Common Stock Will Discourage Purchases Of Our Common Stock By Persons Who Might Otherwise Seek To Gain Control Of Traffix. Our executive officers and directors beneficially own 2,288,997 shares of our outstanding common stock representing approximately 15.9% of the total of our outstanding shares before the exercise of any outstanding options. Accordingly, such persons will be able to exercise substantial control in the election of our directors, increases in our authorized capital, our dissolution or merger, or sale of our assets, and otherwise influence the control of our affairs. As a result, potential purchasers may not seek to acquire control of our Company through the purchase of common stock which may tend to reduce the market price of our common stock. In addition, we are subject to provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware respecting business combinations which could, under certain circumstances, also hinder or delay a change in control. 29 Item 