Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None Item 2. Properties. Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders N/A Part II Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk N/A Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure N/A Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information Part III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services Part IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules Signatures Back to Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements FORWARD LOOKING INFORMATION MAY PROVE INACCURATE This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including without limitation the Business section and Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains certain forward-looking statements and information relating to the Company that is based on our current beliefs, as well as current assumptions made by and information currently available to us. When used in this document, the words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," and "expect" and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect our current views with respect to future events and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including those described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described herein as anticipated, believed, estimated or expected. We do not intend to update these forward-looking statements. Item 1. BUSINESS Overview We are a leading Internet media and marketing company that provides complete end-to-end marketing solutions for our clients, which include advertisers, direct marketers, and agencies, seeking to increase sales and customer contact through on-line marketing channels. The services we offer include the development of a complete creative promotion used to market our client's product and/or service to consumers online. In the provision of our client services we use all major online marketing channels, including email promotions to generate new customers for our clients; the delivery of data files indicating the results of the email promotions; the creation and hosting of customized websites and/or web pages to facilitate consumer transactions for our clients; generating comprehensive reporting of website activity allowing our clients to analyze the effectiveness of the promotion; and providing revenue generating potential for our clients through affiliate marketing opportunities. We use this media platform to generate customers, sales and leads for our own service offers, in addition to our clients. We generate revenue for our clients primarily on a performance-based model, under which we record revenue upon the successful delivery to our client of a qualifying lead, customer, survey, completed application or ultimate sale. We also generate revenue directly from consumers through our “direct-to-consumer” business, which includes Internet based services, such as (a) iMatchUp.com, our on-line dating service included in our E-commerce segment; and (b) other service offers that comprise our LEC Billed Products segment. Our on-line dating service continues to be marketed. We discontinued new customer acquisitions of our LEC Billed products in Fiscal 2004, but we continue to actively seek out other LEC services that exhibit the potential for acceptable economic returns. The LEC Billed Products do not have any long-lived assets associated with the segment. These “direct-to-consumer” services generated approximately $9.5 million, or 15% of our revenue during the fiscal year ended November 30, 2005, as compared to approximately $8.9 million, or 24% of our revenue during the fiscal year ended November 30, 2004, and $5.5 million, or 17% of our revenue during the fiscal year ended November 30, 2003. We made one asset acquisition in each of Fiscal 2004 and 2005. These asset acquisitions accounted for approximately $16.6 million of E-commerce segment revenue, or approximately 26% of consolidated Fiscal 2005 revenues. Such asset acquisitions are described in more detail below, and further described in the notes to the November 30, 2005 consolidated financial statements included herein. We also generate revenues from the sales, rentals and management (for use both on-line and off-line) of our proprietary, profiled databases, which revenue is included in our E-commerce segment. On-Line Marketing We own and operate a variety of Internet websites featuring specialized content such as on-line dating, downloadable music, recipes, greeting cards, automobile information, DVD promotions, and other theme-based content. We generate traffic to our websites from advertising on third party Internet media (i.e., search engines, email and banner advertisements) and through cross-marketing within our own on-line media. Our Web properties and our marketing activities are designed to generate real-time response-based marketing results for our corporate clients. When visiting our on-line properties, consumers are given the opportunity to purchase, sign-up for, ask to be contacted regarding, or simply indicate an interest in, hundreds of offers for various products and services. Specifically, through these interactive Web properties we generate a variety of transactional results ranging from (a) Web traffic, (b) inbound telemarketing calls, (c) outbound telemarketing leads, (d) demographically/psychographically profiled lists of consumers, (e) highly-targeted customized response-based leads, (f) completed applications for products, and (g) sales of products and services. 1 Back to Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Websites. We own and operate a variety of websites with a broad range of content. Virtually all of our websites generate revenue from client advertisements. The advertisements are served across all of our websites using our internally-developed technology that serves ads to website visitors using an algorithm that takes into account a number of factors including information supplied by the visitor upon registration (e.g., gender, age, zip code), as well as the price paid by our customer to serve the advertisement. The websites feature content ranging from music for downloads to sweepstakes offers. We launched EZ-Tracks.com in Fiscal 2004, a site that features over 30,000 songs available for free and legal downloading, as well as other content such as musical greeting cards and a downloadable version of the Bible in audio format. We have a games website that offers a variety of free parlor-style games, such as backgammon and checkers. In Fiscal 2004 we also launched reciperewards.com, a website that features thousands of cooking recipes. Our PrizeDistributors, Inc. sponsored group of websites offers consumers the opportunity to win up to $1 million daily in our free, on-line sweepstakes. The sweepstakes prizes are indemnified by an independent, third-party agency. In order to play, each consumer must provide complete and accurate registration information and agree to receive ("opt-in") marketing messages from us and our marketing partners and affiliates. We own and operate several other websites such as Music of Faith.com, AtlasCreditGroup.com, TheBargainSpot.com, AltasAutomotiveGroup.com, EZGreets.com, GameFiesta.com, PrizeAmerica.com and LoveFreeGames.com. Each of these sites is designed to appeal to a specific consumer interest category that we matched with client promotions that appeal to such interest category. Email Marketing. Each program that we market for our clients can be implemented not only through our websites, but also, and often, through email marketing. We currently market to a vast database, which includes consumer data that is either owned by us or is managed by us under our revenue share arrangements, whereby we recognize the gross revenue as earned and bear the payment obligation to the list owner, irrespective of receipt of payment from our clients. Results Analysis. Subsequent to a campaign being fully implemented, we continually analyze the marketing results to gauge whether the campaigns are continuing to generate an adequate result for the client, whether the media is being utilized cost-efficiently, and to determine whether new and different copy is yielding better overall results. These are traditional direct-marketing disciplines that we apply and that we believe distinguish us from many of our competitors in the on-line marketing industry. Affiliate Marketing. Our affiliate marketing business commenced in late Fiscal 2005 under the name of RocketProfit.com. We have created an affiliate destination where publishers and advertisers can make available to themselves our unique and exclusive deals, customized promotions, high payouts, detailed tracking capabilities, and significant multi-level customer support. Syndication. After we develop a campaign that works efficiently on our own media, we sometimes "syndicate" the program to third-party media. Typically, we have expended time, media and other costs in developing certain campaigns. In exchange for this invested effort, we obtain the right to market those campaigns to other on-line media companies. We believe that with syndicated offers we can leverage campaigns we have developed so that in future fiscal periods we can generate additional revenue with reduced costs and risks associated with such business extension. 2 Back to Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements OTHER SERVICES We introduced several new business units during the past three fiscal years, and continued to expand a portion of these new business units in Fiscal 2005, specifically our on-line dating program conducted over the Internet ("iMatchup.com") which is included in our E-commerce segment. These new business units are designed as monthly recurring billing programs, such as a membership to iMatchUp.com. Revenue from these businesses is generated by directly billing consumers. Our on-line dating business became a significant source of our revenue in Fiscal 2004 and continued into Fiscal 2005, generating approximately 13% and 18% of our consolidated revenue for Fiscal 2005 and 2004, respectively. Our expansion in, and dependence on, our on-line direct marketing efforts, coupled with the potential for state and/or federal legislation limiting our ability to contact consumers on-line should all be considered when referring to our current fiscal year’s results, as well as prior year’s historical results, in evaluating the potential for our future operations, cash flows, and financial position. Background From our inception in 1993 (under the name "Quintel Communications, Inc.") through 1999, we generated the bulk of our revenue from direct marketing using the traditional media of television, postal mail and telemarketing. In 2000, we repositioned our direct marketing business to the on-line media of the Web. Applying the marketing disciplines honed from our years of operating in the "off-line" media arena, we have been able to provide enhanced response-based results in a cost-effective and scaleable manner via on-line marketing. During December 1995 we completed our initial public offering of common stock, which is publicly traded and is reported on the NASDAQ National Market under the symbol “TRFX”. Segment Information During the fiscal year ended November 30, 2005, we generated revenue from the following segments: E-Commerce and LEC Billed Products. The E-Commerce segment currently represents the core of our business operations. Revenue in the E-Commerce segment is generated primarily from marketing of third party products and services on our websites, through email and search engine marketing campaigns, and from sales of memberships to our on-line dating service. LEC Billed Products consist of our proprietary LEC billed products which were principally reintroduced during the fiscal year ended November 30, 2003. We discontinued new customer acquisitions for this segment during the latter part of the fiscal year ended November 30, 2004, and any revenues attributable to it are generated from a declining base of customers acquired in prior fiscal years. Historically, our now discontinued Off-Line Marketing service segment's activities consisted of telemarketing services used for the acquisition of long distance and wireless phone customers for various phone service providers; however during the fiscal years ended November 30, 2002 and 2003, this segment consisted exclusively of our majority owned subsidiary, Montvale Management, LLC and the revenues and expenses of Montvale's net branch services provided to qualified mortgage banking and lending institutions. During the fiscal year ended November 30, 2003 (specifically, March 2003), we disposed of our interest in Montvale, all as more fully described in Note 2 included in the attached financial statements. 3 Back to Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Segment information is set forth in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements referred to in the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data section hereof. For a more detailed discussion of our segment information, also see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”. Competition We face intense competition in the marketing of our services, especially in the conduct of our E-commerce segment activities, which form the core of our current business model. Many of our competitors are well established, have reputations for success in the development and marketing of services and have significant financial, marketing, distribution, personnel and other resources. We also compete with numerous smaller private companies that are willing to take extremely aggressive marketing risks that are outside of the scope of our risk tolerance. These extremely aggressive marketing practices and other marketing capabilities permit our competitors to implement extensive advertising and promotional campaigns, both generally and in response to efforts of other competitors, to enter into new markets and introduce new services. Seasonality and Cyclicality We believe that the on-line marketing industry is subject to seasonal fluctuations, where consumers tend to spend less time at the computer during the summer months, which is apparent based on the decrease in Internet traffic during such months. We generally recognize the fourth and first fiscal quarters of the calendar year to be our strongest. Insurance We may be subject to substantial liability as a result of our day-to-day operations. Accordingly, we maintain a general liability insurance policy that is subject to a per occurrence limit of $1 million with a $2 million aggregate limit and an umbrella policy covering an additional $10 million of liability. In addition, we have errors and omissions insurance with a limit of $5 million. We also maintain Directors and Officers liability insurance policies providing aggregate coverage of $20 million for legal costs and claims. Such insurance may not be sufficient to cover all potential claims and additional insurance may not be available in the future at reasonable costs. Government Regulation As a direct-to-consumer marketing company we are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations designed to protect consumers that govern certain of our marketing practices. Federal legislation was signed into law, effective January 1, 2004, purportedly pre-empting existing and pending state e-mail marketing legislation. The CAN-SPAM Act of 2003 ("CAN-SPAM") requires that certain "opt-out" procedures, including, but not limited to, a functioning return e-mail address, be included in commercial e-mail marketing. CAN-SPAM prohibits the sending of e-mail containing false, deceptive or misleading subject lines, routing information, headers and/or return address information; however, CAN-SPAM does not permit consumers to file suit against e-mail marketers for violations of CAN-SPAM. We believe that this may benefit us, as individuals will be more limited in their ability to file frivolous suits against us, as they have in the past. If any subsequent federal regulations are enacted, including, but not limited to, those implementing regulations promulgated by the FTC that limit our ability to market our offers, we could potentially realize a material adverse impact in future fiscal period net revenue growth, and, therefore, profitability and cash flows could be adversely affected. 4 Back to Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements In contrast to CAN-SPAM, most state deceptive marketing statutes contain private rights of action. Such private right of action lawsuits may have an adverse impact in future fiscal period net revenue growth, as individuals may be more inclined to file frivolous state deceptive marketing suits against us. Under its rule-making authority, the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") in August 2004 adopted rules prohibiting the sending of unsolicited commercial e-mails to wireless phones and pagers. To assist in compliance with the rules, the FCC published on February 7, 2005 a list of mail domain names associated with wireless devices. Senders were given thirty (30) days to come into compliance. Thereafter, it became illegal to send unsolicited commercial e-mail to a domain address on the list unless the subscriber gave prior express authorization. The effect of these rules is to create a "double opt-in" requirement for each sender of mail (advertiser and publisher). The practical consequence of these requirements on senders of commercial e-mail is that conducting compliant campaigns will necessitate the suppression of the domains listed in the FCC's list of wireless domains. Additionally, since domain suppression is now required as a practical matter by law, any campaigns that have domain suppression lists will have those lists included with the regular e-mail suppression lists. Our publishers will be required to suppress the domain lists associated with each campaign in the same manner that they already suppress the e-mail address lists. Although these new regulations do not have a material adverse impact on our current operations, there can be no assurance that they will not have a material adverse impact on our future operations. Under its rule-making authority, in May 2005, the Department of Justice adopted rules that amend the record keeping and inspection requirements for producers of sexually explicit performances. Codified in 18 U.S.C. 2257 of the federal criminal code, Section 2257, as amended, went into effect on June 23, 2005 and requires a class referred to as "secondary producers" to comply with the record keeping and inspection requirements that apply to primary producers. On June 16, 2005, The Free Speech Coalition, Inc. brought an action challenging, among other things, the extent to which webmasters and/or web sites fall under the definition of "secondary producers" under the new Section 2257 regulations. In a ruling issued December 28, 2005, the U.S. District Court rejected the establishment of a class of “secondary producers” that would have to comply with the record-keeping and inspection requirements of Section 2257 and reaffirmed the decision in Sundance Associates v. Reno, which held that primary “producers” would be limited to those persons involved in the “hiring, contracting for, managing, or otherwise arranging for the participating of the depicted performer.” Secondary producers will likely still have to comply with the labeling requirements of Section 2257, which require that secondary producers obtain from the primary producer a letter or other correspondence indicating who the custodian of records is, where such records are kept and the date of production of the material. The ruling in this proceeding is limited to current or future members of The Free Speech Coalition, Inc. There is the risk that the definition of "secondary producers" may be reinstated and/or more broadly interpreted in the future. At this juncture, Section 2257 has had no material effect on our net revenue growth, profitability and cash flows. The states of Michigan and Utah have passed Child Protection Registry laws that bar the transmission of commercial e-mail to registered state residents under the age of eighteen (collectively, the "Statutes"). The Statutes contain provisions for fines and jail time for violators, and create a private right of action for aggrieved parties. Under the Statutes, state residents may register any e-mail address, fax number, wireless contact information or instant message identifier assigned to the account of a minor or one to which a minor has access. Unlike other e-mail marketing statutes, there are no opt-in or pre-existing business relationship exceptions. The Statutes provide that once an address of a state resident is on the registry for thirty (30) days, commercial e-mailers are prohibited from sending to that address anything containing an advertisement, or even a link to an advertisement, for a product or service that a minor is legally prohibited from accessing. Such products and/or services include, but are not limited to, alcohol, tobacco, gambling, firearms, automotive, financial, prescription drug and adult material. This prohibition remains in force even if the e-mail or other communication is otherwise solicited. The Free Speech Coalition, Inc. has brought an action that challenges certain aspects of the Utah Child Protection Registry law; no decision on this proceeding has yet been rendered. To the extent we market these types of products and/or services, we have blocked sending such e-mail to Michigan and Utah residents. 5 Back to Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Legislation has been passed in twelve (12) different states that are intended to regulate "spyware" and, to a limited extent, the use of "cookies." Of particular significance is the Revised Utah Spyware Control Act (the "Utah Act") that bars a person or company from using a context-based trigger mechanism to display an advertisement that partially or wholly covers paid advertising or other content on a website in a way that interferes with the user's ability to view the website. The Utah Act also requires purveyors of pop-up advertising to ask whether a user is a resident of the state of Utah before downloading "spyware" software onto the user's computer and further allows a trademark owner to sue any person or company who displays a pop-up advertisement in violation of a specific trademark protection which is set forth in the Utah Act. Similarly, the State of Alaska has legislation pending that would require such disclosure prior to downloading "spyware" software onto the user's computer. In practice, we do not provide or use "spyware" in our marketing, but if more restrictive legislation is adopted, we may be required to develop new technology and/or methods to provide our services or discontinue services in some jurisdictions altogether. Additionally, there is a risk that state courts will broadly interpret the term "spyware" to include legitimate ad-serving software and/or cookie technology that is currently provided or used by us. At the federal level, competing bills are pending which are also intended to regulate "spyware" and, to a limited extent, the use of "cookies." "Spyware" has not been precisely defined in existing and pending legislation, but is generally considered to include software which is installed on consumers' computers and designed to track consumers' activities and collect and possibly disseminate information, including personally identifiable information, about those consumers without their knowledge and consent. As stated above, we do not provide or use "spyware" in our marketing practices, but there is the risk that the definition of spyware may be broadly interpreted to include legitimate ad-serving software and/or cookie technology that is currently provided or used by us. Anti-spyware legislation has 1) generally included a limited exemption for the use of cookies; and 2) focused on providing consumers with notification and the option to accept or decline the installation of spyware software. However, there can be no assurance that future legislation will not incorporate more burdensome standards by which the use of cookies will not be exempted and software downloading onto consumers' computers will not be more strictly enforced. If more restrictive legislation is adopted, we may be required to develop new technology and/or methods to provide our services or discontinue services in some jurisdictions altogether. Legislation has also been passed at the state level and competing bills are pending at the federal level which are intended to require that businesses and institutions provide notice to consumers of any potential theft or loss of sensitive consumer information then in possession of the applicable business or institution. At the state level, laws that recently took effect in the states of Illinois, Louisiana, Minnesota, New Jersey and New York require companies, governmental agencies and private organizations to notify individuals in cases where their confidential information has been exposed to possible data thieves (the "New State Laws"). Upon taking effect on December 31, 2005 and, alternatively, January 1, 2006, the New State Laws make customer notification mandatory in the event that personally identifiable information (including, but not limited to, social security numbers, driver's license numbers or bank and financial account numbers) has been accessed improperly by third parties. The New State Laws are in addition to similar laws previously in effect in at least fifteen other states including the states of Arkansas, California, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Maine, Montana, Nevada, North Carolina North Dakota, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Tennessee, Texas and Washington that all require consumer notification where confidential or sensitive information has been improperly accessed, lost or stolen (together with the New State Laws, the “Information Security Laws”). To the extent that we collect such personally identifiable information, the Information Security Laws may increase our costs to protect such information. At the Federal level, the FTC, pursuant to its enforcement authority, filed a complaint against BJ's Wholesale Club, Inc. ("BJ's") for violation of the FTC Act in connection with the theft of consumer credit/debit card information which was then in BJ's possession. The FTC alleged that BJ's failure to secure customers' sensitive information was an unfair practice under the FTC Act because it caused substantial injury that was not reasonably avoidable by consumers and not outweighed by offsetting benefits to consumers or competition. BJ's agreed to a settlement that requires BJ's to establish and maintain a comprehensive information security program that includes administrative, technical and physical safeguards. Although we do not anticipate that this interpretation of the FTC Act, nor the Information Security Laws requiring notice of theft or loss of sensitive consumer information, will have a material adverse impact on our current operations, we could potentially be subject to regulatory proceedings for past and current practices in connection with the storage and security of sensitive consumer information and notice of such sensitive consumer information's theft or loss. In addition, we may be required to make changes in our future practices relating to the storage, security and provision of notice in connection with sensitive consumer information. 6 Back to Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements At present, the laws and regulations governing the Internet remain largely unsettled, even in areas where there has been legislative and/or regulatory action. It is uncertain as to how long it will take to determine the extent to which existing laws, including, but not limited to, those relating to intellectual property, advertising, sweepstakes and privacy, apply to the Internet and Internet marketing. Recently, growing public concern regarding privacy and the collection, distribution and use of Internet user information has led to increased Federal and state scrutiny, as well as regulatory activity concerning data collection, record keeping, storage, security, notification of data theft, and associated use practices. The application of existing laws or the adoption or modification of laws or regulations in the future, together with increased regulatory scrutiny, could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition and could potentially expose us and/or our clients to fines, litigation, cease and desist orders and civil and criminal liability. Employees We currently employ 89 full-time employees, including five executive officers, and 2 part-time employees in the U.S. and 79 full-time employees in Canada. We believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory. None of our employees are represented by a union. Available Information Our Internet address is www.traffixinc.com. We make available, free of charge through such website, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding our Company that we file electronically with the SEC. Any and all information found on our website is not part of this or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC. Code of Ethics and Business Conduct We have adopted a Code of Ethics and Business Conduct (the “Code”) for our principal executive and financial and accounting officers, and our directors, employees, agents, and consultants. The Code is publicly available on our website at www.traffixinc.com under “Investor Relations”, “Corporate Governance” and “Code of Ethics”. The Code addresses various issues regarding the practice of ethical conduct applied to all levels of our personnel in all the phases of their business activities and of their responsibility of reporting illegal or unethical behavior. 7 Back to Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We have also established an accounting ethics complaint procedure for all employees to report concerns they might have regarding accounting, internal accounting controls and auditing matters. All complaints are treated confidentially, and we do not, and will not condone any retaliation of any kind against employees who come forward with complaints. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS From time to time, including in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we publish forward-looking statements, as disclosed in our Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements, beginning immediately following the Table of Contents of this Annual Report. We note that a variety of factors could cause our actual results and experience to differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed or anticipated in our forward-looking statements. The factors listed below are illustrative of the risks and uncertainties that may arise and that may be detailed from time to time in our public announcements and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as on Forms 8-K, 10-Q and 10-K. We undertake no obligation to make any revisions to the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of the filing of this report. We May Not Continue To Pay Dividends On Our Equity Securities. We have paid a dividend of $0.08 per share of our common stock in each of the last eleven fiscal quarters. The declaration of each of such dividends was approved by our Board of Directors upon the conclusion of each quarter. We can give you no assurances that our Board will declare any dividends in future fiscal periods. Any further declarations will depend upon our performance, the level of our then current and retained earnings and other pertinent factors relating to our financial position. You should not rely on any prior approvals of our Board as an indicator of its intent to approve the declaration of any dividends in the future. Advertisers May Be Reluctant To Devote A Portion Of Their Budgets To Internet Advertising And Digital Marketing Solutions. Companies doing business on the Internet must compete with traditional advertising media, including television, radio, cable and print, for a share of advertisers' total marketing budgets. Potential customers may be reluctant to devote a significant portion of their marketing budget to Internet advertising or digital marketing if they perceive the Internet to be a limited or ineffective marketing medium. Any shift in marketing budgets away from Internet advertising spending or digital marketing solutions could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We May Not Be Able To Comply With The Adoption Of Newly Created Laws And Governmental Regulation Of The Internet Industry And New Restrictions For Internet Use May Increase Our Cost Of Doing Business. As a direct-to-consumer marketing company we are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations designed to protect consumers that govern certain of our marketing practices, all as more fully set forth in this Annual Report under the heading “Business - Government Regulation.” 8 Back to Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Demand For Our Services May Decline Due To The Proliferation Of "Spam" And Software Designed To Prevent Its Delivery. Our business may be adversely affected by the proliferation of "spam" and other unwanted Internet solicitations. In response to such proliferation, Internet Service Providers ("ISP's") have been adopting technologies, and individual computer users are installing software on their computers, that are designed to prevent the delivery of certain Internet advertising, including legitimate solicitations such as those delivered by us. We cannot assure you that the number of ISP's and individual computer users who employ these or other similar technologies and software will not increase, thereby diminishing the efficacy of our services. In the case that one or more of these technologies are widely adopted or the software widely utilized, demand for our services would decline. We May Be Unable To Keep Up With The Rapid Technological Changes That May Occur In The Internet And E-Commerce Arenas Which Would Adversely Affect Our Business Operations. To remain competitive, we must enhance and continually improve the responsiveness, functionality and features of our services. The Internet and the online commerce industry are characterized by rapid technological change, changes in user and customer requirements and preferences, frequent new product and service introductions embodying new technologies, and the emergence of new industry standards and practices that could render existing technology and systems obsolete at any time. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to license leading technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of prospective consumers, and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. The development of a website and other proprietary technology entails significant technical and business risks. There can be no assurance that we will use new technologies effectively or adapt existing websites and operational systems to customer requirements or emerging industry standards. If we are unable, for technical, legal, financial or other reasons, to adapt in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. We Depend On Third-Party Internet And Telecommunications Providers, Over Whom We Have No Control, To Operate Our Services. Interruptions In These Services Caused By One Of The Providers Could Have An Adverse Effect On Revenue And Securing Alternate Sources Of These Services Could Significantly Increase Expenses. We depend heavily on several third-party providers of Internet and related telecommunication services, including hosting and co-location facilities, in operating our services. These companies may not continue to provide services to us without disruptions in service, at the current cost or at all. The costs associated with any transition to a new service provider would be substantial, requiring the reengineering of computer systems and telecommunications infrastructure to accommodate a new service provider. This process would be both expensive and time-consuming. In addition, failure of the Internet and related telecommunications providers to provide the data communications capacity in the time frame required by us could cause interruptions in the services we provide. Unanticipated problems affecting our computer and telecommunications systems in the future could cause interruptions in the delivery of services, causing a loss of revenue and potential loss of customers. 9 Back to Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Customers May Refuse To Pay Our Fees For Services Rendered, As Billed By The Local Exchange Carriers. We currently market products that are billed to consumers directly on their telephone bills through their Local Exchange Carriers, or LEC's. Regulation in the United States provides that a consumer's telephone service may not be discontinued for failure to pay for products such as our LEC billed products. In the event of nonpayment by consumers or the provision of refunds or credits by the LEC's, we will suffer a reduction to our anticipated revenues. We maintain a reserve for consumer chargebacks for just such scenarios, and the reserve is estimated based on the amount of our historical chargebacks, which includes refunds, credits and uncollectible charges. We cannot assure you, however, that our reserves will be adequate to cover actual chargebacks. We Face Intense Competition In The Marketing Of Products And Services. We face intense competition in the direct marketing of products and services. Many of our competitors are well established, have reputations for success in the development and marketing of services and have significant financial, marketing, distribution, personnel and other resources. These financial and other capabilities permit such companies to implement extensive advertising and promotional campaigns, both generally and in response to efforts by additional competitors to enter into new markets and introduce new services. Our Success Depends On Our Ability To Continue Forming Relationships With Other Internet And Interactive Media Content And Product Providers. The Internet includes an ever-increasing number of businesses that offer and market consumer products and services. These entities offer advertising space on their websites, as well as profit sharing arrangements for joint effort marketing programs. We expect that with the increasing number of entrants into the Internet commerce arena, advertising costs and joint effort marketing programs will become extremely competitive. This competitive environment might prevent us from executing profit generating advertising and joint effort marketing programs in the future. This competitive environment may also prevent us from providing entertaining content and product and service providers from marketing their products and services through our websites. If we fail to continue establishing new, and maintain existing, profitable advertising and joint marketing arrangements, we may suffer substantial adverse consequences to our financial condition and results of operations. 10 Back to Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The Outcome Of Litigation In Which We Have Been Named As A Defendant Is Unpredictable And A Materially Adverse Decision In Any Such Matter Could Have A Material Adverse Affect On Our Financial Position And Results Of Operations. We are defendants in litigation matters, as described under "Legal Proceedings" in our periodic reports filed pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These claims may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. Although we believe that we have meritorious defenses to the claims made in each and all of the litigation matters to which we have been named a party, and intend to contest each lawsuit vigorously, no assurances can be given that the results of these matters will be favorable to us. A materially adverse resolution of any of these lawsuits could have a material adverse affect on our financial position and results of operations. We Are Dependent On Our Key Personnel For Managing Our Business Affairs. The Loss Of Their Services Could Materially And Adversely Affect The Conduct Of Our Business. We are and will be highly dependent upon the efforts of the members of our management team, particularly those of our Chief Executive Officer, Jeffrey L. Schwartz, and our President, Andrew Stollman. The loss of the services of Messrs. Schwartz or Stollman may impede the execution of our business strategy and the achievement of our business objectives. We can give you no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business. Our failure to recruit key personnel or our failure to adequately train, motivate and supervise our existing or future personnel will adversely affect our operations. Our Business Plan Is Subject To Change And Any Expectations We And You May Have For Its Successful Implementation May Be Unrealized. Our business plan and strategy may quickly change based upon facts or circumstances currently unforeseen by us. Due to the ever changing nature of the e-commerce industry and the Internet, we, based upon these unforeseen facts or circumstances, may change our business plan at the discretion of our Management and Board of Directors with results, adverse or otherwise, that we cannot now foresee. The Concentration Of Ownership Of Our Common Stock Will Discourage Purchases Of Our Common Stock By Persons Who Might Otherwise Seek To Gain Control Of Traffix. Our executive officers and directors beneficially own 2,467,715 shares of our outstanding common stock representing approximately 17.32% of the total of our outstanding shares before the exercise of any outstanding options. Accordingly, such persons will be able to exercise substantial control in the election of our directors, increases in our authorized capital, our dissolution or merger, or sale of our assets, and otherwise influence the control of our affairs. As a result, potential purchasers may not seek to acquire control of our Company through the purchase of common stock which may tend to reduce the market price of our common stock. In addition, we are subject to provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware respecting business combinations which could, under certain circumstances, also hinder or delay a change in control. 11 Back to Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 