ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Factors That May Affect Future Results and the Market Price of Common Stock Continued Effects of the Economic Recession may Adversely Affect our Industry, Business and Results of Operations Over the past several years, the United States economy has experienced negative economic conditions. Although conditions have improved over the last year, the future economic environment may continue to be less favorable than in years past. In addition, disruptions in national and international credit markets have lead to a scarcity of credit, tighter lending standards and higher interest rates on business loans. The continued effects of the economic recession or a continuing scarcity of credit could adversely affect the financial condition and levels of business activity of our clients. Recent economic conditions have had, and may continue to have, a corresponding negative impact on our operating results as some of our clients may suffer business failures, and others may react to worsening con ditions by reducing their employee headcount, lowering their wage and bonus levels, lowering their spending on other human resources benefits and services or determining not to outsource those services to us. In addition, economic conditions may impair our ability to attract new clients. These circumstances significantly impacted our 2009 results. The decline in U.S. economic activity and associated reductions in employment levels in 2009 and the latter half of 2008 impacted the Company’s small business customer base and target market. Our average worksite employees per month in 2009 declined 7.0% compared to 2008. However, during 2010, our average number of paid worksite employees increased 8.0% from the first quarter of 2010 to 111,249 in the fourth quarter of 2010. Continued or increased negative economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our future financial results. We Assume Liability for Worksite Employee Payroll, Payroll Taxes and Benefits Costs and are Responsible for their Payment Regardless of the Amount Billed to or Paid by our Clients Under the CSA, we become a co-employer of worksite employees and assume the obligations to pay the salaries, wages and related benefits costs and payroll taxes of such worksite employees. We assume such obligations as a principal, not as an agent of the client. Our obligations include responsibility for: · payment of the salaries and wages for work performed by worksite employees, regardless of whether the client timely pays us the associated service fee; · withholding and payment of federal and state payroll taxes with respect to wages and salaries reported by Administaff; and · providing benefits to worksite employees even if our costs to provide such benefits exceed the fees the client pays us. If a client does not pay us, or if the costs of benefits we provide to worksite employees exceed the fees a client pays us, our ultimate liability for worksite employee payroll and benefits costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Increases in Health Insurance Premiums or Inability to Secure Replacement Contracts on Competitive Terms could have a Material Adverse Effect on our Financial Condition or Results of Operations Maintaining health insurance plans that cover worksite employees is a significant part of our business. Our primary health insurance contract expires on December 31, 2013, subject to cancellation by either party upon 180 days notice. In the event we are unable to secure replacement contracts on competitive terms, significant disruption to our business could occur. Health insurance premiums are in part determined by our claims experience and comprise a significant portion of our direct costs. We employ extensive risk management procedures in an attempt to control our claims incidence and structure our benefits contracts to provide as much cost stability as possible. However, if we experience a sudden and unexpected large increase in claim activity, our health insurance costs could increase. Claim activity levels are impacted by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, macro-economic changes, proposed and enacted regulatory changes and medical outbreaks. Contractual arrangements with our clients limit our ability to incorporate such increases into service fees, which could result in a delay before such increases could be reflected in service fee s. As a result, such increases could have a material adverse effect on our financial - 17 - Table of Contents condition or results of operations. For additional information related to our health insurance costs, please read Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates – Benefits Costs,” on page 31. Health Care Reform could Affect the Company’s Health Insurance Plan The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (“PPACA”) was signed into law on March 23, 2010. The PPACA was subsequently amended on March 30, 2010 by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (the “Reconciliation Act”). The PPACA and Reconciliation Act (collectively the “Act”) entail sweeping health care reforms with staggered effective dates from 2010 through 2018, and many provisions in the Act require the issuance of additional guidance from the U.S. Department of Labor, the Internal Revenue Service, the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services, and the states. The number and complex nature of federal and state regulations facing employers has continued to increase over time, including the enactment of the Act. As a co-employer in the PEO relationship, the Company assumes or shares many of the employer-related responsibilities and assists our clients to comply with many employment-related governmental regulations. However, currently we are unable to determine the impact the Act will have in future periods on the costs we will incur to comply with the Act, our ability to match any resulting increased costs with pricing, our ability to attract and retain clients, our business model and our results of operations. We are currently unable to determine all of the impacts of the required plan changes and provisions resulting from the Act. In future periods the changes may result in increased costs to the Company and could affect our ability to attract and retain clients. Additionally, contractual arrangements and competitive market conditions may limit or delay our ability to increase service fees to offset any associated potential increased costs. For additional information related to PPACA, please read Item 1. “Business – Industry Regulations – Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act,” on page 14. Increases in Workers’ Compensation Costs or Inability to Secure Replacement Coverage on Competitive Terms could Lead to a Significant Disruption to our Business Our workers’ compensation coverage has been provided through an arrangement with ACE since 2007. Under our current arrangement with ACE, we bear the economic burden for the first $1 million layer of claims per occurrence and the economic burden for claims over $1 million, up to a maximum aggregate amount of $5 million per policy year for claims that exceed the first $1 million. ACE bears the burden for all claims in excess of these levels. The ACE Program is a fully insured policy whereby ACE has the responsibility to pay all claims incurred under the policy regardless of whether we satisfy our responsibilities. For additional discussion of our policy with ACE, please read Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies a nd Estimates – Workers’ Compensation Costs” on page 32. Workers’ compensation costs are a significant portion of our direct costs. If we were to experience a sudden and unexpected large increase in the number or severity of claims, our workers’ compensation costs could increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. The current workers’ compensation coverage with ACE expires on September 30, 2011. In the event we are unable to secure replacement coverage on competitive terms, significant disruption to our business could occur. Our Captive Insurance Subsidiary Tax Status could be Challenged Resulting in an Acceleration of Income Tax Payments In conjunction with the formation of the current workers’ compensation program in 2003, we formed a wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary (the “Captive”). We recognize the Captive as an insurance company for federal income tax purposes, with respect to our consolidated federal income tax return. In the event the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) were to determine that the Captive does not qualify as an insurance company, we could be required to make accelerated income tax payments to the IRS that we otherwise would have deferred until future periods. - 18 - Table of Contents Our Ability to Adjust and Collect Service Fees for Increases in Unemployment Tax Rates may be Limited We record our state unemployment (“SUI”) tax expense based on taxable wages and tax rates assigned by each state. State unemployment tax rates vary by state and are determined, in part, based on prior years’ compensation experience in each state. Prior to the receipt of final tax rate notices, we estimate our expected SUI tax rate in those states for which tax rate notices have not yet been received. In addition, some states have the ability under law to increase unemployment tax rates retroactively to cover deficiencies in the unemployment fund. Due to the recent deterioration in U.S. economic activity and the associated reductions in employment levels, the state unemployment funds have experienced a significant increase in the number of unemployment claims. Accordingly , state unemployment tax rates increased substantially in 2010 and 2011. Generally, our contractual agreements allow us to incorporate such increases into our service fees upon the effective date of the rate change. However, our ability to fully adjust service fees in our billing systems and collect such increases over the remaining term of the customers’ contracts could be limited, resulting in a potential tax increase not being fully recovered. As a result, such increases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. For additional information related to state unemployment taxes, please read Note 11 to the financial statements, “Commitments and Contingencies,” on page F-27. Our Contracts may be Cancelled on Short Notice. Our Inability to Renew Client Contracts or Attract New Clients could Materially and Adversely Affect our Financial Conditions and Results of Operations Our standard CSA can generally be cancelled by us or the client with 30 days notice. Accordingly, the short-term nature of the CSA makes us vulnerable to potential cancellations by existing clients, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our results of operations are dependent in part upon our ability to retain or replace our clients upon the termination or cancellation of the CSA. Our client attrition rate was approximately 20% in 2010. There can be no assurance that the number of contract cancellations will continue at these levels and such cancellations may increase in the future due to various factors, including but not limited to, economic conditions in the markets we operate. Established Competitors and New Market Entrants may have Greater Resources that Give Them Competitive Advantage over Us The human resource services industry, including the PEO industry, is highly fragmented. Many PEOs have limited operations and fewer than 1,000 worksite employees, but there are several industry participants that are comparable to our size or larger. We also encounter competition from “fee for service” companies such as payroll processing firms, insurance companies and human resource consultants. Our competitors include the PEO divisions of large business services companies, such as Automatic Data Processing, Inc. and Paychex, Inc. The PEO divisions of such large business services companies with substantially greater resources than Administaff may be able to provide their PEO services at more competitive prices than we may be able to offer. Moreover, we expect that as the PEO industry grows and its regulatory framework becomes better established, well-organized competition with greater resources than we have may enter the PEO market, possibly including large “fee for service” companies currently providing a more limited range of services. We may be Subject to Liabilities for Client and Employee Actions A number of legal issues remain unresolved with respect to the co-employment arrangement between a PEO and its worksite employees, including questions concerning the ultimate liability for violations of employment and discrimination laws. Our CSA establishes the contractual division of responsibilities between Administaff and our clients for various personnel management matters, including compliance with and liability under various governmental regulations. We maintain certain general insurance coverages (including coverages for our clients) to manage certain exposure for various employee-related claims, and as a result, the costs in excess of insurance premiums we incur with respect to this exposure have historically been insignificant to our operating results. Because we act as a co-employer, we may be subject to liability for violations of various employment and discrimination laws despite these contractual provisions, even if we do not participate in such violations. Although the CSA provides that the client is to indemnify us for any liability attributable to the client’s conduct, we may not be able to collect on such a contractual indemnification claim and thus may be responsible for satisfying such - 19 - Table of Contents liabilities to the extent that such liabilities are not covered or insured against under our insurance policies. In addition, worksite employees may be deemed to be our agents, which may subject us to liability for the actions of such worksite employees. Changes in Federal, State and Local Regulation or our Inability to Obtain Licenses under New Regulatory Frameworks could have a Material Adverse Effect on our Results of Operations or Financial Condition As a major employer, our operations are affected by numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to labor, tax, benefit, insurance and employment matters. By entering into a co-employer relationship with employees assigned to work at client locations, we assume certain obligations and responsibilities of an employer under these laws. However, many of these laws (such as ERISA and federal and state employment tax laws) do not specifically address the obligations and responsibilities of non-traditional employers such as PEOs, and the definition of “employer” under these laws is not uniform. In addition, many of the states in which we operate have not addressed the PEO relationship for purposes of compliance with applicable state laws governing the employer/employee relationshi p. Any adverse application of new or existing federal or state laws to the PEO relationship with our worksite employees and client companies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. While many states do not explicitly regulate PEOs, 37 states have passed laws that have recognition, licensing, certification or registration requirements for PEOs and several other states are considering such regulation. Such laws vary from state to state, but generally provide for monitoring the fiscal responsibility of PEOs, and in some cases codify and clarify the co-employment relationship for unemployment, workers’ compensation and other purposes under state law. While we generally support licensing regulation because it serves to validate the PEO relationship, we may not be able to satisfy licensing requirements or other applicable regulations for all states. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to renew our licenses in all states. Geographic Market Concentration makes our Results of Operations Vulnerable to Economic Factors Our Houston, Texas (including Houston), and California markets accounted for approximately 13%, 28% and 16%, respectively, of our worksite employees for the year ended December 31, 2010. Accordingly, while we have a goal of expanding in our current markets and into new markets, for the foreseeable future, a significant portion of our revenues may be subject to economic factors specific to Texas and California. A Determination that a Client is Liable for Employment Taxes not Paid by a PEO may Discourage Clients from Contracting with us in the Future Under the CSA, we assume sole responsibility and liability for paying federal employment taxes imposed under the Code with respect to wages and salaries we pay our worksite employees. There are essentially three types of federal employment tax obligations: · income tax withholding requirements; · obligations under the Federal Income Contribution Act (“FICA”); and · obligations under the Federal Unemployment Tax Act (“FUTA”). Under the Code, employers have the obligation to withhold and remit the employer portion and, where applicable, the employee portion of these taxes. Most states impose similar employment tax obligations on the employer. While the CSA provides that we have sole legal responsibility for making these tax contributions, the IRS or applicable state taxing authority could conclude that such liability cannot be completely transferred to us. Accordingly, in the event that we fail to meet our tax withholding and payment obligations, the client may be held jointly and severally liable for those obligations. While this interpretive issue has not, to our knowledge, discouraged clients from enrolling with Administaff, a definitive adverse resolution of this issue may discourage clients from enrolling in the future. - 20 - Table of Contents Potential Disclosure of Sensitive or Private Information could Damage our Reputation and Impact our Operating Results Unauthorized access or unintentional disclosure of personal information could damage our reputation and operating results. While we strive to comply with all applicable data protection laws and regulations, and maintain stringent privacy and security policies and procedures, any failure or perceived failure to adequately protect sensitive information may result in negative publicity and / or proceedings or actions against us by government entities or others, which could potentially have an adverse affect on our business. Forty-six states and the District of Columbia have enacted notification rules concerning privacy and data protection. It is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. If so, in addition to the possibility of fines, this could result in an order requiring that we change our data practices, which could have a material effect on our business. Complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. The Failure of our Insurance Carriers could have a Material Adverse Effect on Us Administaff contracts with various insurance carriers to provide certain insurance coverages as a part of our Personnel Management System, which includes health insurance, workers’ compensation insurance and employment practices liability insurance. In addition, Administaff obtains insurance coverage for various commercial risks in our business such as property insurance, errors and omissions insurance, general liability insurance, fiduciary liability insurance, automobile liability insurance, and directors’ and officers’ liability insurance. The failure of any insurance carrier providing such coverage could leave Administaff exposed to uninsured risk and could have a material adverse effect upon Administaff. During the third quarter of 2008, it was publicly reported that American International Group, Inc. (“AIG Parent”) experienced significant financial difficulties, and the United States Federal Reserve (“Federal Reserve”) approved emergency financial assistance to AIG Parent. AIG Parent received additional financial assistance from the Federal Reserve in 2009. Selected member insurance companies of AIG Parent (the “Selected Member Carriers”) provide employment practices liability (“EPL”) insurance to Administaff and our clients, and also remain as the carriers for all workers’ compensation claim activity incurred between September 1, 2003 and September 30, 2007. As of December 31, 2010, AIG held funds of $23.2 million, which is included in restricted cas h and deposits on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet, to pay remaining claims under the AIG workers’ compensation program. Although AIG Parent has publicly stated that its Selected Member Carriers remain well-capitalized and financially secure, in the event that the Selected Member Carriers fail and are placed into receivership or a similar proceeding, the claim funds held by AIG would not necessarily be used to pay the Company’s remaining workers’ compensation claims. Instead, the claims could be paid by guaranty associations that have been established by most states, many of which could in turn attempt to return the liability for such claims to Administaff. Moreover, in the event of a failure of the carrier providing the EPL insurance, Administaff may be responsible for the payment of any such claims. Any such events could have a material adverse effect on Administaff’s financial condition and results of operations. In 2003, facing continued capital constraints and a series of downgrades from various rating agencies, our former workers’ compensation insurance carrier for the two-year period ending September 2003, Lumbermens Mutual Casualty Company, a unit of Kemper Insurance Companies (“Kemper”), made the decision to substantially cease underwriting operations and voluntarily entered into “run-off.” A “run-off” is the professional management of an insurance company’s discontinued distressed or nonrenewed lines of insurance and associated liabilities outside of a judicial proceeding. In the event the run-off process is not successful and Kemper is forced into receivership or a similar proceeding, most states have established guaranty funds to pay remaining claims. Howeve r, the guaranty associations in some states, including Texas, have asserted that state law returns the liability for open claims under such policies to the insured, as we experienced when another former insurance carrier, Reliance Insurance Company (“Reliance”), was placed into liquidation in 2001. In that case, the Texas state guaranty association asserted that it was entitled to full reimbursement from us for workers’ compensation benefits paid by the association. Although we settled that dispute within the limits of insurance coverage we had secured to cover potential claims returned to us related to the Reliance policies, we have no similar insurance coverage for the Kemper claims. If one or more states were to assert that liability for open claims with Kemper should be returned to us, we may be required to make - 21 - Table of Contents a payment to the state covering estimated claims attributable to us. Any such payment would reduce net income, which may have a material adverse effect on net income in the reported period. For additional information about our workers’ compensation insurance, please read “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ─ Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates ─ Workers’ Compensation Costs” on page 32. New and Higher State and Municipal Taxes could have a Material and Adverse Impact on our Financial Condition and Results of Operations Many states and municipalities in which the Company operates have experienced economic slowdowns. This decline in economic activity has resulted in reductions of tax revenues and corresponding budget deficits. In response to the budget shortfalls, many states and municipalities have increased or enacted new taxes on businesses operating within their tax jurisdiction, including but not limited to, business activity taxes and income taxes. In addition, many states and municipalities have increased their audit activity in an effort to identify additional tax revenues. New tax assessments on the Company’s operations could result in increased costs. The Company’s ability to adjust its service fees and incorporate additional tax assessments into its billing system could be limi ted. As a result, such higher taxes could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Failure to Integrate or Realize the Expected Return on Our new Adjacent Business Strategy, Including Acquisitions, could have a Material and Adverse Impact on our Financial Condition and Results of Operations We have recently adopted a strategy to market and sell products and services outside of the core PEO service. As a part of this strategy, periodically we make strategic long-term decisions to invest in and/or acquire new companies, business units or assets. New business strategies and the acquisition of new businesses involve risk, including those associated with integrating the operations, technologies and personnel. Failure to effectively integrate newly acquired businesses could result in us not achieving anticipated revenues and cost savings. Acquiring new businesses could also result in the loss of customers, employees or the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. In addition, based on market conditions or changes in operating plans, the fair value of our investment s could decline, requiring us to record an impairment charge for all or a portion of the investment. The failure to effectively integrate new acquisitions, the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, or the occurrence of an impairment, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 