Risk factors, as outlined below, provide additional information related to risks associated with competition in the mortgage banking industry. 7 Table of Contents Employees As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, we had a total of 127 and 827 full-time and part-time employees, respectively. Management believes that relations with its employees are good. We are not a party to any collective bargaining agreements. Revisions in Policies and Strategies Developments in the market, which affect the policies and strategies mentioned herein or which change our assessment of the market, may and has caused our board of directors to revise our policies and financing strategies. As previously mentioned, the Company has had to make strategic adjustments to adapt to the current market conditions. These adjustments include discontinuing the majority of the Company's operations, the reduction of personnel and the elimination of facilities. The Company continues to evaluate strategic alternatives that will be in the best interest of the Company's stakeholders. Any of our policies, strategies and activities may be modified or waived by our board of directors without stockholder consent. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Some of the following risk factors relate to a discussion of our assets. For additional information on our asset categories refer to Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," as well as the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. Risks Related To Our Businesses If we are unable to generate sufficient liquidity we may be unable to conduct our operations as planned. In 2008, management continued to be seriously challenged by the unprecedented turmoil in the mortgage market, including: significant increases in delinquencies and foreclosures and significant increases in credit-related losses. In response to the deteriorating market conditions in 2007, the Company discontinued certain operations, resolved and terminated all but one of the Company's reverse repurchase financings, which has been restructured (Restructured Financing), and settled a significant portion of its outstanding loan repurchase claims. These conditions have caused a reduction in our cash flows and overall liquidity. Our ability to meet our long-term liquidity requirements is subject to several factors, such as satisfying the terms of the Restructured Financing, decreasing our preferred stock dividend and trust preferred payment obligations and possibly raising additional capital. We can not assure you that we will successfully accomplish these objectives. Our business will be materially affected if we are unable able to generate sufficient liquidity to conduct our operations as planned. If we are forced to liquidate, we may have few unpledged assets for distribution to unsecured creditors or equity holders. In the event we are forced to liquidate, the majority of our assets are either collateral for specific borrowings or pledged as collateral for secured liabilities. We may have few remaining assets available for unsecured creditors and equity holders. We have restructured our reverse repurchase financing which requires monthly payments and other payment obligations. In September 2008, we entered into an agreement to restructure our remaining reverse repurchase financing. The balance of this Restructured Financing was $188.7 million at December 31, 2008 and collateralized by loans held-for-sale within discontinued operations. The Restructured Financing removes all technical defaults from financial covenant noncompliance and any associated margin calls for the term of the agreement. The Restructured Financing calls for certain targets including a reduction of the borrowings balance to $100 million in 18 months (from September 2008), with an advance rate of no more than 65 percent of the unpaid principal balance, and $50 million in 24 months, with an advance rate of no more than 55 percent of the unpaid principal balance. By meeting these targets, the agreement term can extend to 30 months. At December 31, 2008, the advance rate was 79 percent. The agreement also calls for monthly principal paydowns of $1.5 million until the earlier of the Company raising capital 8 Table of Contents or the end of the agreement term. If the Company is successful in raising capital, approximately 10 percent of the gross proceeds will be required to be paid as an additional principal paydown and the monthly principal paydown is reduced to $750,000. The interest rate is LIBOR plus 325 basis points, and all cash collected from the securing mortgage loans is required to be paid to the lender. We may not have the funds available to make the required paydowns, which could result in default and we may not have adequate assets to use as collateral. In the event we do not have sufficient liquidity to meet the payment requirements, the lender can accelerate our indebtedness and increase interest rates. Furthermore, upon an event of default, the Company is responsible for any shortfall if the value of the mortgage loans securing the financing is insufficient to repay the outstanding balance. Such a situation would likely result in a rapid deterioration of our financial condition. If we default under our Restructured Financing, we may be forced to liquidate collateral at less than favorable prices. If we default under our Restructured Financing, our lender could force us to liquidate the collateral. If the value of the collateral is less than the amount borrowed, we could be required to pay the difference in cash. If we were to declare bankruptcy, our lender may obtain special treatment and would then be allowed to liquidate the collateral without any delay. On the other hand, if our lender declares bankruptcy, we might experience difficulty repurchasing our collateral, or enforcing our claim for damages, and it is possible that our claim could be repudiated and we could be treated as an unsecured creditor. If this occurs, our claims would be subject to significant delay and we may receive substantially less than our actual damages or nothing at all. We do not plan to make dividend payments on our preferred stock or payments on our trust preferred debt obligations in the foreseeable future. At December 31, 2008, we had $88.3 million in obligations related to junior subordinated debentures related to the outstanding trust preferred securities. We are required to make quarterly payments on these debt obligations. In order to preserve cash, the Board approved the deferral of interest payments on the trust preferred securities due in December 2008 and January 2009 and the Company did not pay a fourth quarter 2008 dividend on the preferred stock. Although the Company may defer quarterly interest payments on the trust preferred securities for a limited period of time, it may not pay dividends on its capital stock, including the preferred stock, during such period. All unpaid dividends on the preferred stock will accumulate. Until such time as we pay all cumulative dividends on the preferred stock, we may not pay dividends on, nor redeem, repurchase or make any distribution on, shares of common stock. If we do not pay dividends on the preferred stock for six or more quarterly periods (whether or not consecutive), holders of preferred stock will be entitled to elect two additional directors to the Board to serve until all dividends are paid. In December 2008 and January 2009, we fully satisfied an aggregate of $32 million of our trust preferred securities for $4.95 million, and we have agreed to restructure $51.3 million in trust preferred securities to reduce our payment obligations. The Company has the option to defer interest for up to five years for the remaining $12 million in outstanding trust preferred securities that have not been fully satisfied or restructured. Deteriorating mortgage market conditions have had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on our earnings and financial condition. Beginning in the second quarter of 2007, the mortgage industry and the single-family residential housing markets, and to a lesser extent multi-family residential, were adversely affected as home prices declined and delinquencies and defaults increased. Borrowers have found it difficult to refinance due to home price depreciation and lenders tightening their underwriting guidelines, which has led to further increases in defaults and credit losses. As a result, non-conforming mortgage loans have not performed up to historical expectations, and the fair value of non-conforming mortgage loans has deteriorated. The adverse market conditions have negatively affected the Company's delinquencies and real estate owned (REO). At December 31, 2008, the Company's mortgage portfolio had 22.7 percent or $3.5 billion of loans that were 60 days or more delinquent, included in continuing and discontinued operations. As a result of increased foreclosures, REO increased 47 percent to $599.8 million at December 31, 2008 as compared to $405.6 million at December 31, 2007. These conditions, which increase the cost and reduce the availability of debt, may continue or worsen in the future. 9 Table of Contents The disruption in the capital markets and secondary mortgage markets has reduced liquidity and investor demand for mortgage loans and mortgage backed securities, while yield requirements for these products has increased. The increased defaults on residential mortgage loans, increases in the number of ratings downgrades with respect to bonds issued in connection with securitized loans, lack of liquidity in the bond market and the financial condition of many companies that typically participate in this market have negatively affected our ability to operate our business. These unprecedented disruptions and deterioration of the mortgage market, have had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on the Company's earnings and financial condition. A material difference between the assumptions used in the determination of the value of our residual interests and our actual experience would cause us to write down the value of these securities and could harm our financial position. Investments in residual interest and subordinated securities are much riskier than investments in senior mortgage-backed securities because these subordinated securities bear all credit losses prior to the related senior securities. The risk associated with holding residual interest and subordinated securities is greater than holding the underlying mortgage loans directly due to the concentration of losses attributed to the subordinated securities. The value of residual interests represents the present value of future cash flows expected to be received by us from the excess cash flows created in the securitization transaction. In general, future cash flows are estimated by taking the coupon rate of the loans underlying the transaction less the interest rate paid to the bond holders, less contractually specified servicing and trustee fees, and after giving effect to estimated prepayments, credit losses and overcollateralization requirements. We estimate future cash flows from these securities and value them utilizing assumptions based in part on projected interest rates, delinquency, mortgage loan prepayment speeds and credit losses. It is extremely difficult to validate the assumptions we use in valuing our residual interests. Even if the general accuracy of the valuation model is validated, valuations are highly dependent upon the reasonableness of our assumptions and the predictability of the relationships which drive the results of the model. Such assumptions are complex as we must make judgments about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. If our actual experience differs from our assumptions, we could be required to reduce the value of these securities. Furthermore, if our actual experience differs materially from these assumptions, our cash flow, financial condition, results of operations and business prospects may be harmed, including an adverse affect on the amount of dividend payments that are made on and the value of our common stock. The Company's mortgage portfolio contains significant interest rate risks that are not currently hedged by the Company. Residual interests in certain securitization trusts are expected to generate cash flows to the Company. These cash flows are contingent upon maintaining required overcollateralization levels and can be reduced or eliminated by realized losses from the disposition of loans or REO. Assuming realized losses have not reduced overcollateralization levels below required levels, excess cash flows are distributed to the residual interest holder after the required bond interest and principal payments are made to investors. Interest rates on the loans in the securitization trusts generally adjust bi-annually. Interest rates on the bonds usually adjust monthly with changes partially offset by derivatives instruments (primarily interest rate swap agreements) inside the securitization trusts. Since bond interest rates adjust more frequently than the related loans, increases in LIBOR rates could significantly reduce the future cash flows we receive from these securitization trusts. The amount of the derivatives instruments is not sufficient to fully protect the residual cash flows from increases in LIBOR. The Company does not have the ability to change the derivatives instruments inside the trusts and does not currently hedge this interest rate risk with derivatives instruments outside the securitization trusts. As a result of not fully hedging interest rate risks, the Company's future residual cash flows could be significantly affected by rising LIBOR rates. Recent decreases to interest rates could reduce our future cash flows. As a result of the recent cuts to the federal funds rate by the federal reserve, the rate charged by other lenders on mortgages could decrease, causing higher quality borrowers' to refinance, leaving the Company with a higher percentage of delinquent borrowers, and reduced net interest income and cash flows from the mortgage portfolio. 10 Table of Contents We may experience reduced net earnings or losses if our liabilities re-price at different rates than our assets. Our principal source of revenue is net interest income or net interest spread from our long-term mortgage portfolio, which is the difference between the interest we earn on our interest earning assets and the interest we pay on our interest bearing liabilities. The rates we pay on our borrowings are independent of the rates we earn on our assets and may be subject to more frequent periodic rate adjustments. Therefore, we could experience a decrease in net earnings or a loss because the interest rates on our borrowings could increase faster than the interest rates on our assets, if the increased borrowing costs are not offset by reduced cash payments on derivatives recorded in other non-interest income. If our net interest spread becomes negative, we will be paying more interest on our borrowings than we will be earning on our assets and we will be exposed to a risk of loss. The rates paid on our borrowings and the rates received on our assets may be based upon different indices. Our long-term mortgage portfolio includes mortgages that are one-, three- and six-month LIBOR and one-year LIBOR hybrid ARMs. These are mortgages with fixed interest rates for an initial period of time, after which they begin bearing interest based upon short-term interest rate indices and adjust periodically. We generally funded mortgages with adjustable interest rate borrowings having interest rates that are indexed to short-term interest rates, typically one-month LIBOR, and adjust periodically at various intervals. To the extent that there is an increase in the interest rate index used to determine our adjustable interest rate borrowings and it increases faster than the indices used to determine the rates on our assets (i.e., the increase is not offset by a corresponding increase in the rates at which interest accrues on our assets) or is not offset by various cash payments on interest rate derivatives that we have in place at any given time, our net earnings will decrease or we will have net losses. Additionally, the Company has commenced a policy to modify loans by either reducing the interest rates, waiving accrued and unpaid interest or deferring accrued interest to help minimize delinquencies and maximize recoveries on loans. Although we believe in the long run this is beneficial to the Company, the modification of loans to defer the re-pricing will cause the Company to experience a reduction in expected cash flows. ARMs typically have interest rate caps, which limit interest rates charged to the borrower during any given period. Our borrowings are not subject to similar restrictions. As a result, in a period of rapidly increasing interest rates, the interest rates we pay on our borrowings could increase without limitation, while the interest rates we earn on our ARMs would be capped. If this occurs, our net interest spread could be significantly reduced or we could suffer a net interest loss if not offset by a decrease in the cash payments on interest rate derivatives that we have in place at any given time. In discontinued operations, the Company earns interest income from its loan held-for-sale, some of which are six-month LIBOR adjustable loans. We also pay interest expense on our Restructured Financing, which adjusts monthly, indexed to LIBOR. Since the interest rate on the Restructured Financing adjusts more frequently than the related loans held-for-sale, increases in LIBOR rates could significantly negatively affect the Company's cash flows within discontinued operations. This interest rate risk is not currently being hedged. If we fail to initiate our new mortgage-related fee-based businesses or generate other new sources of revenue successfully, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In light of the continuing turmoil in the mortgage market, our ability to continue our operations is dependent upon our ability to successfully initiate our new mortgage-related fee-based business strategies or generate other new sources of revenue, which may include acquiring new operations that contribute sufficient additional cash flow to enable us to generate net revenue to meet our current and future expenses. Our future financial performance and success are dependent in large part upon our ability to implement our contemplated strategies successfully. Our ability to acquire new businesses is significantly constrained by our limited liquidity and our likely inability to obtain financing or to issue equity securities as a result of our current financial condition and current market conditions, as well as other uncertainties and risks. There can be no assurances that we will be able to acquire new business operations. We may not be able to implement our new business strategies successfully or achieve the anticipated benefits of their implementation. If we are unable to do so, we may be unable to satisfy our future operating costs and liabilities, including repayment of the Restructured Financing, payments on the remaining trust preferred securities and payment of preferred stock dividends. 11 Table of Contents We may not be able to access financing sources on favorable terms, or at all, which could adversely affect our ability to implement or operate our business as planned. We have historically been dependent on warehouse lines, repurchase agreements, credit facilities, securitizations and other structured financings. We currently have only one Restructured Financing, under which we may not borrow additional funds. Any new financing could subject us to recourse indebtedness and the risk that debt service on less efficient forms of financing would require a larger portion of our cash flows, thereby reducing cash available for operations. If we are not able to arrange for new financing on terms acceptable to us, or if we default on our covenants, we may not have funds available for operations as well as for future business opportunities, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Second trust deed mortgages in our long term investment portfolio expose us to greater credit risks. Our security interest in the property securing second mortgages in our portfolio is subordinated to the interest of the first mortgage holder. Typically, the second mortgages have a higher combined loan to value (CLTV) ratio than do our first mortgages. If the borrower experiences difficulties in making senior lien payments or if the value of the property is equal to or less than the amount needed to repay the borrower's obligation to the first mortgage holder upon foreclosure, our second mortgage loan may not be repaid. Also, our senior security interests may be affected if there are junior liens on the same properties resulting in a higher CLTV which borrowers may perceive have no equity. This could result in our senior liens defaulting at a higher rate than senior liens without a junior lien. We may be subject to losses on mortgages for which we did not obtain mortgage insurance. We did not obtain credit enhancements such as mortgage pool or special hazard insurance for all of our mortgages and mortgage investments. Generally, we required mortgage insurance on any first mortgage with an LTV ratio greater than 80 percent. During the time we hold mortgages for investment, we are subject to risks of borrower defaults and bankruptcies and special hazard losses that are not covered by standard hazard insurance. If a borrower defaults on a mortgage that we hold, we bear the risk of loss of principal to the extent there is any deficiency between the value of the related mortgaged property and the amount owing on the mortgage loan and any insurance proceeds available to us through the mortgage insurer. Also, to the extent we have insurance coverage, we bear the risk of the insurance carriers not being able to make the required payments. Loans to non-conforming borrowers may expose us to a higher risk of delinquencies, foreclosures and losses. We were an acquirer and originator of non-conforming single family and multi-family mortgage loans. These are mortgages that generally may not qualify for purchase by government-sponsored agencies such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Our operations have been negatively affected due to our investments in these mortgages. Credit risks associated with these mortgages may be greater than those associated with conforming mortgages. Mortgages made to such borrowers generally entail a higher risk of delinquency and higher losses than mortgages made to borrowers who utilize conventional mortgage sources. Delinquency, foreclosures and losses generally increase during economic slowdowns or recessions. The actual risk of delinquencies, foreclosures and losses on mortgages made to our borrowers are higher under current economic conditions than those in the past. Additionally, the combination of different underwriting criteria and higher rates of interest leads to greater risk, including higher prepayment rates and higher delinquency rates and /or credit losses. We also have loans that are interest only and option-ARM loans that allow a borrower to pay only the stated interest or less than the stated interest, respectively, attributable to their loan for a set period of time. If there is a decline in real estate values borrowers may default on these types of loans since they have not reduced their principal balances, which, therefore, could exceed the value of their property. In addition, a reduction in property values would also cause an increase in the CLTV or LTV ratio for that loan which could have the effect of reducing the value of the property collateralized by that loan, reducing the borrowers' equity in their homes to a level that would increase the risk of default. 12 Table of Contents Our commercial and multifamily mortgages may expose us to increased lending risks. Our commercial and multifamily mortgages have risks because repayment of the mortgages often depends on the successful operations and the income stream of the borrowers. Furthermore, commercial mortgages typically involve larger mortgage balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgages. The geographic concentration of our mortgages increases our exposure to risks in those areas. We do not set limitations on the percentage of our long-term mortgage portfolio composed of properties located in any one area (whether by state, zip code or other geographic measure). Concentration in any one area increases our exposure to the economic and natural hazard risks associated with that area. A majority of our mortgage acquisitions and originations, long-term mortgage portfolio and finance receivables are secured by properties in California and, to a lesser extent, Florida. California and Florida have experienced, and may experience in the future, an economic downturn in past years and they have also suffered the effects of certain natural hazards. As a result of the economic downturn, real estate values in California and Florida have decreased drastically and may continue to decrease in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Furthermore, if borrowers are not insured for natural disasters, which are typically not covered by standard hazard insurance policies, then they may not be able to repair the property or may stop paying their mortgages if the property is damaged. This would cause increased foreclosures and decrease our ability to recover losses on properties affected by such disasters. This would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Representations and warranties made by us in our loan sales and securitizations may subject us to liability. In connection with our loan sales to third parties and our prior securitizations, we transferred mortgages acquired and originated by us to the third parties or into a trust in exchange for cash and, in the case of a securitized mortgage, residual certificates issued by the trust. The trustee, purchaser, bondholder, or other entities involved in the issuance of the securities (which may include bond insurers) may have recourse to us with respect to the breach of the representations, and warranties made by us at the time such mortgages are transferred or when the securities are sold. While we may have recourse to our customers for any such breaches, there can be no assurance of our customers' abilities to honor their respective obligations. Also, we previously engaged in bulk whole loan sales pursuant to agreements that generally provide for recourse by the purchaser against us in the event of a breach of one of our representations or warranties, any fraud or misrepresentation during the mortgage origination process, or upon early default on such mortgage. We attempted to limit the potential remedies of such purchasers to the potential remedies we received from the customers from whom we acquired or originated the mortgages. However, in some cases, the remedies available to a purchaser of mortgages from us may be broader or extend longer than those available to us against the sellers of the mortgages and should a purchaser enforce its remedies against us, we are not always able to enforce whatever remedies we have against our customers. Furthermore, if we discover, prior to the sale or transfer of a loan, that there is any fraud or misrepresentation with respect to the mortgage and the originator fails to repurchase the mortgage, then we may not be able to sell the mortgage or we may have to sell the mortgage at a discount. Our delinquency ratios and our performance may be adversely affected by the performance of parties who service or sub-service our mortgage loans. We sell or contract with third-parties for the servicing of all our mortgage loans, including those in our securitizations. Our operations are subject to risks associated with inadequate or untimely servicing. Poor performance by a servicer may result in greater than expected delinquencies and losses on our mortgage loans. A substantial increase in our delinquency or foreclosure rate could adversely affect our ability to access the capital and secondary markets for our financing needs. Also, with respect to mortgage loans subject to a securitization, greater delinquencies would adversely affect the value of our residual interest, if any, we hold in connection with that securitization. 13 Table of Contents In a securitization, relevant agreements permit us to be terminated as servicer or master servicer under specific conditions described in these agreements. If, as a result of a servicer or sub-servicer's failure to perform adequately, we were terminated as master servicer of a securitization, the value of any master servicing rights held by us would be adversely affected. We are a defendant in purported class action lawsuits and may not prevail in these matters. Class action lawsuits and regulatory actions alleging improper marketing practices, abusive loan terms and fees, disclosure violations, improper yield spread premiums and other matters are risks faced by all mortgage originators, particularly those in the Alt-A and subprime market. We are a defendant in purported class actions pending in different states. Some of the class actions allege generally that the loan originator improperly charged fees in violation of various state lending or consumer protection laws in connection with mortgages that we acquired while others allege that our lending practice was a statutory violation, an unlawful business practice, an unfair business practice or a breach of a contract. Although the suits are not identical, they generally seek unspecified compensatory damages, punitive damages, pre- and post-judgment interest, costs and expenses and rescission of the mortgages, as well as a return of any improperly collected fees. Other purported class actions which have been brought on behalf of persons who acquired Common Stock through the open market or through the Company 401(k) plan, generally allege violations of the federal securities laws due to allegedly false and misleading statements or omissions, related to the Company's financial condition and future prospects. We may incur defense costs and other expenses in connection with the class action lawsuits, and we cannot assure you that the ultimate outcome of these or other actions will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. In addition to the expense and burden incurred in defending this litigation and any damages that we may suffer, our management's efforts and attention may be diverted from the ordinary business operations in order to address these claims. If the final resolution of this litigation is unfavorable to us, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows might be materially adversely affected if our existing insurance coverage is unavailable or inadequate to resolve the matters. We believe we have meritorious defenses to the actions and intend to defend against them vigorously; however, an adverse judgment in any of these matters could have a material adverse effect on us. We are exposed to environmental liabilities, with respect to properties that we take title to upon foreclosure, that could increase our costs of doing business and harm our results of operations. In the course of our activities, we may foreclose and take title to residential properties and become subject to environmental or mold liabilities with respect to those properties. The laws and regulations related to mold or environmental contamination often impose liability without regard to responsibility for the contamination. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with mold or environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. Moreover, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based upon damages and costs resulting from mold or environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant mold or environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be significantly harmed. We are subject to risks of operational failure that are beyond our control. Substantially all of our operations are located in Irvine, California. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage and interruption from fire, flood, telecommunications failure, break-ins, earthquake and similar events. Our operations may also be interrupted by power disruptions, including rolling black-outs implemented in California due to power shortages. Furthermore, our security mechanisms may be inadequate to prevent security breaches to our computer systems, including from computer viruses, electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. Such security breaches or operational failures could expose us to liability, impair our operations, result in losses, and harm our reputation. 14 Table of Contents Loss of our current executive officers or other key management could significantly harm our business. We depend on the diligence, skill and experience of our senior executives, including our chief executive officer and president. We believe that our future results will also depend in part upon our attracting and retaining highly skilled and qualified management. We seek to compensate our executive officers, as well as other employees, through competitive salaries, bonuses and other incentive plans, but there can be no assurance that these programs will allow us to retain key management executives or hire new key employees. The loss of our chief executive officer, president, or other senior executive officers and key management could have a material adverse affect on our operations because other officers may not have the experience and expertise to readily replace these individuals. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. Furthermore, in light of our present financial condition, no assurance can be given that we will retain these and other executive officers and key management personnel. To the extent that one or more of our top executives or other key management personnel are no longer employed by us, our operations and business prospects may be adversely affected. The loss of, and changes in, key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to maintain effective systems of internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or prevent fraud, which could cause current and potential stockholders to lose confidence in our financial reporting, adversely affect the trading price of our securities or harm our operating results. Effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company. Any failure to develop or maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures could harm our reputation or operating results, or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. We cannot be certain that our efforts to improve or maintain our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures will be successful or that we will be able to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to develop or maintain effective controls or difficulties encountered in their implementation or other effective improvement of our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures could harm our operating results, or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we are unable to adequately establish or maintain our internal control over financial reporting, our external auditors will not be able to issue an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In the past, we have reported, and may discover in the future, material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Ineffective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities or affect our ability to access the capital markets and could result in regulatory proceedings against us by, among others, the SEC. In addition, a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting, which may lead to deficiencies in the preparation of financial statements, could lead to litigation claims against us. The defense of any such claims may cause the diversion of management's attention and resources, and we may be required to pay damages if any such claims or proceedings are not resolved in our favor. Any litigation, even if resolved in our favor, could cause us to incur significant legal and other expenses or cause delays in our public reporting. Such events could harm our business, affect our ability to raise capital and adversely affect the trading price of our securities. Our ability to utilize our net operating losses and certain other tax attributes may be limited. At the end of our 2008 taxable year, we had net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards of approximately $406.8 million for federal income tax purposes and approximately $532.2 million for state income tax purposes. Although, under existing tax rules, we are generally allowed to use those NOL carryforwards to offset taxable income in subsequent taxable years, our ability to use those NOL carryforwards to offset income may be severely limited to the extent that we have experienced or do experience an ownership change within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. These provisions could also limit our ability to deduct certain losses (built-in losses) we recognize after the ownership change with respect to assets we own at the time of the 15 Table of Contents ownership change. In general, an ownership change, as defined by Section 382, results from transactions increasing ownership of certain Stockholders or public groups in the stock of the corporation by more than 50 percentage points over a three-year period. We believe that the conversion of the preferred stock to common stock would result in an ownership change as defined under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code which is expected to create annual limitations on the Company's ability to utilize NOL carryovers and built-in losses. Any limitation on our NOL carryforwards that could be used to offset post-ownership change taxable income would adversely affect our liquidity and cash flow, as and when we become profitable. However, even if no ownership change occurs, we do not expect to generate sufficient taxable income in future periods to be able to realize fully the tax benefits of our NOL carryforwards. Regulatory Risks If we revoke our REIT election or if we fail to satisfy the requirements for qualification as a REIT, we will not be able to elect to be a REIT for a period of five years. If we do not qualify for taxation as a REIT for 2009, we will be subject to tax as a regular corporation, including alternative minimum tax. We will not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to our stockholders. We will not be subject to the requirement that we distribute dividends to our stockholders equal to at least 90 percent of our taxable income (other than net capital gains). Once we revoke our REIT election, we will not be allowed to elect to be taxed as a REIT until 2014. Violation of various federal, state and local laws may result in losses on our loans. To the extent we originated and purchased mortgage loans, applicable state and local laws generally regulate interest rates and other charges, require certain disclosure, and require licensing of the mortgage broker, lender and purchaser. In addition, other state and local laws, public policy and general principles of equity relating to the protection of consumers, unfair and deceptive practices and debt collection practices may apply to the origination, servicing and collection of our loans. Mortgage loans are also subject to federal laws, including: •the Federal Truth-in-Lending Act and Regulation Z promulgated there under, which require certain disclosures to the borrowers regarding the terms of the loans; •the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and Regulation B promulgated there under, which prohibit discrimination on the basis of age, race, color, sex, religion, marital status, national origin, receipt of public assistance or the exercise of any right under the Consumer Credit Protection Act, in the extension of credit; •the Fair Housing Act, which prohibits discrimination in housing on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, familial status, or handicap, in housing-related transactions; •the Fair Credit Reporting Act, which regulates the use and reporting of information related to the borrower's credit experience; •the Fair and Accurate Credit Transaction Act, which regulates credit reporting and use of credit information in making unsolicited offers of credit; •the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, which imposes requirements on all lenders with respect to their collection and use of nonpublic financial information and requires them to maintain the security of that information; •the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, which requires that consumers receive disclosures at various times and outlaws kickbacks that increase the cost of settlement services; •the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, which requires the reporting of public loan data; •the Telephone Consumer Protection Act and the Can Spam Act, which regulate commercial solicitations via telephone, fax, and the Internet; •the Depository Institutions Deregulation and Monetary Control Act of 1980, which preempts certain state usury laws; and 16 Table of Contents •the Alternative Mortgage Transaction Parity Act of 1982, which preempts certain state lending laws which regulate alternative mortgage transactions. Violations of certain provisions of these federal and state laws may limit our ability to collect all or part of the principal of or interest on the loans and in addition could subject us to damages and could result in the mortgagors rescinding the loans whether held by us or subsequent holders of the loans. In addition, such violations could cause us to be in default under our credit and repurchase lines and could result in the loss of licenses held by us. Similarly, it is possible borrowers may assert that the loan forms we used or acquired, including forms for "interest-only" and "option-ARM" loans for which there is little standardization or uniformity, fail to properly describe the transactions they intended, or that our forms failed to comply with applicable consumer protection statutes or other federal and state laws. This could result in liability for violations of certain provisions of federal and state consumer protection laws and our inability to sell the loans and our obligation to repurchase the loans or indemnify the purchasers. New regulatory laws affecting the mortgage industry may affect our ability to re enter the mortgage markets. The regulatory environments in which we previously operated, and continue to operate on a limited basis, have an effect on the activities in which we may engage. Changes to the laws, regulations or regulatory policies can affect whether and to what extent we may be able to reenter the mortgage markets and whether it can be done profitably. Some states and local governments and the Federal Government have enacted, or may enact laws, or regulations that restrict or prohibit some provisions in mortgages or some loan programs that we have previously participated in. As such we cannot be sure that in the future we will be able to engage in lending or mortgage activities that were similar to those we engaged or participated in the past and we might be at a competitive disadvantage which would affect our operations. We may become subject to certain California corporate laws if certain conditions are satisfied. Due to our delisting from the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE"), we may become subject to Section 2115 of the California Corporations Code. Section 2115 provides that regardless of a corporation's legal domicile, certain provisions of California corporation law will apply to that corporation if it meets certain requirements related to its property, payroll and sales in California and if more than one-half of its outstanding voting securities are held of record by persons having addresses in California, and such corporation is not listed on certain national securities exchanges or on the NASDAQ National Market. If we become subject to Section 2115, (i) our stockholders will be entitled to cumulative voting, and (ii) we may be subject to more stringent stockholder approval requirements and more stockholder-favorable dissenters' rights in connection with certain strategic transactions. Cumulative voting is a voting scheme which allows minority stockholders a greater opportunity to have board representation by allowing those stockholders to have a number of votes equal to the number of directors to be elected multiplied by the number of votes to which the stockholder's shares are entitled and to "cumulate" those votes for one or more director nominees. Generally, cumulative voting allows minority stockholders the possibility of board representation on a percentage basis equal to their stock holding, where under straight voting those stockholders may receive less or no board representation. Some of the changes that result from the application of Section 2115 may affect any possible transaction involving a change of control, which could negatively affect your investment. Our operations may be adversely affected if we are subject to the Investment Company Act. We intend to conduct our business at all times so as not to become regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. The Investment Company Act exempts entities that are primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate. In order to qualify for this exemption we must maintain at least 55 percent of our assets directly in mortgages, qualifying pass-through certificates and certain other qualifying interests in real estate. Our ownership of certain mortgage assets may be limited by the provisions of the Investment Company Act, should we ever be subject to the Act. If the SEC adopts a contrary interpretation with respect to these securities or otherwise believes we do not satisfy the above exception, we could be required to restructure our activities or sell certain of our assets. To insure that we continue to qualify for the exemption we may be required at times to adopt less efficient methods of 17 Table of Contents financing certain of our mortgage assets and we may be precluded from acquiring certain types of higher-yielding mortgage assets. The net effect of these factors will be to lower our net interest income. If we fail to qualify for exemption from registration as an investment company, our ability to use leverage would be substantially reduced, and we would not be able to conduct our business as described. Our business will be materially and adversely affected if we fail to qualify for this exemption. Limitations on acquisition and change in control ownership limit. Our Charter and bylaws, and Maryland corporate law contain a number of provisions that could delay, defer, or prevent a transaction or a change of control of us that might involve a premium price for holders of our capital stock or otherwise be in their best interests by increasing the associated costs and timeframe necessary to make an acquisition, making the process for acquiring a sufficient number of shares of our capital stock to effectuate or accomplish such a change of control longer and more costly. In addition, investors may refrain from attempting to cause a change in control because of the difficulty associated with such a venture because of the limitations. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Securities A limited market for our common stock and preferred stock, and "Penny Stock" rules may make buying or selling our securities difficult. Our common stock and preferred stock presently trade on the pink sheets. As a result, an investor may find it difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the price of, our securities. In addition, our common stock and preferred stock are subject to the penny stock rules that impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell such securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. The SEC regulations generally define a penny stock to be an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Unless an exception is available, those regulations require the delivery, prior to any transaction involving a penny stock, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated therewith and impose various sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell penny stocks to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally institutions). In addition, the broker-dealer must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer's account. Moreover, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors must make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to transactions prior to sale. Regulations on penny stocks could limit the ability of broker-dealers to sell our common stock and preferred stock and thus the ability of purchasers of our common stock and preferred stock to sell their shares in the secondary market. Our share prices have been and may continue to be volatile and the trading of our shares may be limited. Historically and recently, the market price of our securities has been volatile. Our common stock and preferred stock was previously listed for trading on the NYSE until November 20, 2008 at which time we were delisted. Our common stock and preferred stock is now quoted on the pink sheets. We cannot guarantee that a consistently active trading market for our securities will continue, especially while we remain on the pink sheets. Other consequences of our quotation on the pink sheets may include a reduction in analyst coverage and the loss of certain state securities law exemptions available to us while our securities were traded on NYSE, which may affect our ability to provide for future issuances of our securities, among other consequences. Holders of our securities may, therefore, have difficulty selling their shares, should they decide to do so. In addition, there can be no assurances that such markets will continue or that any shares which may be purchased may be sold without incurring a loss. Any such market price of our shares may not necessarily bear any relationship to our book value, assets, past operating results, financial condition or any other established criteria of value, and may not be indicative of the market price for the shares in the future. The market price of our securities is likely to continue to be highly volatile and could be significantly affected by factors including: •the amount of dividends paid; 18 Table of Contents •delinquencies and defaults on outstanding mortgages; •loan sale pricing; •termination of financing agreements; •unanticipated fluctuations in our operating results; •prepayments on mortgages; •valuations of securitization related assets; •mark to market adjustments related to the fair value of derivatives; •interest rates; and •general market and mortgage industry conditions. During 2008, our common stock reached an intra-day high sales price of $19.80 on February 4, and an intra-day low sales price of $0.20 on November 21. As of March 5, 2009, our stock price closed at $0.27 per share. In addition, significant price and volume fluctuations in the stock market have particularly affected the market prices for the securities of mortgage companies such as ours. Furthermore, general conditions in the mortgage industry may adversely affect the market price of our securities. These broad market fluctuations have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect the market price of our securities. If our results of operations fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in a future quarter, the market price of our securities could also be materially adversely affected and we may experience difficulty in raising capital. Should we decide to relist our securities on a stock exchange, the criteria for listing may be difficult for us to achieve. The market price of our securities has been lower than the required minimum bid price for listing on a national stock exchange, and the reduced trading volumes that we currently experience may prevent our stock from reaching the required minimum price for listing. Additionally, our history of net losses may make it difficult for us to list on an exchange at any point in the near future, if at all. We may be required to restructure our capital structure and issue additional securities in order to list on an exchange. There is no guarantee that we would be able to effect such restructuring under terms as favorable as our current equity and debt, if at all. Issuances of additional shares of our common stock may adversely affect its market price and significantly dilute stockholders. In order to support our business objectives, we may raise capital through the sale of equity. We may also issue additional shares of common stock if we consummate an exchange offer of our Series B Preferred Stock and Series C Preferred Stock and we may also issue shares of common stock to settle outstanding obligations and liabilities. The issuance or sale, or the proposed sale, of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock or other outstanding securities. We do not know the actual or perceived effect of these issuances, the timing of any offerings or issuances of securities, the potential dilution of the book value or earnings per share of our securities then outstanding and the effect on the market price of our securities then outstanding. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 