D. Risk Factors” there is still some risk that insurance coverage may not address all operating risks. Workers’ compensation and medical insurance for employees are separately provided for under PNG policies. 46 Table of Contents Material plans to construct, expand or improve facilities (MOPU Project) On February 29, 2008 the Board of Directors announced the approval to proceed with a major upgrade of the Lihir operation which should lift gold production capacity to approximately 1 million ounces per year from 2011, known as the MOPU Project. The MOPU Project has been the subject of a rigorous 12 month feasibility study which concluded that it would position the Company for increased output, lower cash costs and more reliable and consistent production. The study concluded that the upgrade will: • Increase gold production by an average 240,000 ounces per year over the life of the operation. • Lift output over the period from 2011 to 2021 by 2.35 million ounces to more than 10 million ounces. • Increase gold production by in excess of 1 million ounces over the life of the operation, due to improved processing efficiencies. • Provide potential for additional reserves to be established due to the improved project economics, extending the life of the operation. • Reduce costs of production by approximately $80 per ounce, following commissioning in 2011. • Boost operating cash flows and deliver a significant uplift to net present value. • Create operational flexibility to ensure more reliable and consistent production. • Involve capital investment of $696 million, to lift process plant capacity to match the current mining rate. The current mine production of ore significantly exceeds the process plant capacity, with the excess ore stockpiled for reclaiming and processing in the future. Accordingly, during 2006 a study into the options for expanding the Lihir operation process plant was undertaken. The various options to achieve process plant capacity increases were examined during the options study, and various technologies considered for processing the additional ore. The results indicated that the optimum option for expansion was one where the pressure oxidation process technology already in use at the mine would continue to be utilized. The selected option involved building a new, larger diameter autoclave than the existing autoclaves, such that the capacity of the new unit would be twice that of each of the existing units. A feasibility study into this option was conducted during 2007 and finalised in February 2008. The feasibility study supported the conclusions of the scoping study, and showed that a plant upgrade was economically viable as a result of a reduction in processing costs and improved gold recovery. The annual throughput capacity of the process plant is targeted to increase to more than 10 million tonnes, depending on among other things, the sulphur content of the ore feed, with a corresponding increase in gold production of an average of 240,000 ounces. The capital expenditure requirement for the additional plant and equipment is expected to be approximately $700 million. Up to the end of March 2008, the Company has committed $1.3 million on this project. Estimated capital costs for the MOPU Project are included in the following table, expressed in 2008 dollars. 2008 2009 2010 2011 Total Total Cost $ M 138 268 188 102 696 These costs exclude capital investment required for expansion of geothermal power supply. The feasibility study has been developed on the basis that the expanded plant will be powered by geothermal generators. The expanded plant will lift power demand to 126 MW, up from current demand of 76 MW. Construction is expected to commence in 2008 and be completed in mid — 2011. Regulatory approvals for the upgraded plant are required prior to commissioning. In addition, the geothermal power generating capacity is to be expanded to provide electricity for the new plant and equipment. This expansion is the subject of a continuing study and has not been finalised, with steam exploration continuing. The cost of expanding geothermal power capacity is estimated to be around $150 million and the final geothermal power cost estimate is expected to be established by the end of 2008. Based on current gold price and costs of production at the Lihir operation, the investment is expected to be funded by cash flows from operations. In any case, the Company is currently in the process of negotiating standby credit facilities with a number of financial institutions for general corporate purposes and to provide additional financial flexibility. In this regard, term sheets are currently being negotiated with several large Australian commercial banks to refine the terms on which the standby credit will be provided. If these terms can be agreed between the Company and the banks, formal documentation will then be drawn up. This is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2008. The proposed upgrade will involve the installation of one additional autoclave of twice the capacity of each of the three existing autoclaves, as well as additional crushing, grinding, thickening, oxygen, and leach plant facilities. The expansion will increase the grinding capacity of the plant from around 6.5-7 Mt/a, to approximately 10.5-12 Mt/a, increasing annual gold output by between 200,000 oz and 300,000 oz. 47 Table of Contents An additional geothermal power station, generating 40 MW, will be constructed to power the expanded plant, at an estimated capital cost of approximately $150 million, including costs of drilling and proving up the steam resource. The remaining 10MW required to take total power supply to 126 MW will be derived from existing Heavy Fuel Oil power supply. A full evaluation of geothermal power supply costs is expected to be completed by the end of 2008. The Company is still in the process of exploration to find sufficient steam reserves for the purposes of generating additional geothermal power. Existing geothermal power generation capacity on Lihir Island totals 56 MW. Optimisation of the existing plant is expected to lift production to 76 MW through improvements to turbines and addition of binary units to utilize heat from brine, which is currently rejected as waste. The estimated capital cost of this optimisation is approximately $40 million. Regulatory approvals and permits will be sought from the relevant authorities progressively over the next 18 months to two years. These will include environmental approvals and an additional mining lease to facilitate water supply infrastructure construction. A program of community and government consultation has already commenced. Average incremental production of approximately 240,000 oz per annum is expected over the remaining 20+ year life of the operation. This is to be achieved in two ways: • By maximising direct feed ore to the autoclaves, the proportion of ore fed through the flotation circuit is reduced, thereby increasing gold recoveries and consequently total gold production. • By accelerating processing rates, bringing forward production and maximising value. Higher annual production levels will produce significant economies of scale, leading to a reduction in unit costs of approximately US$80 per ounce. These estimates are based on the existing reserve models and the current mine plan, which have yet to be optimised for the expansion. Reduced costs and improved economics are expected to feed through to a reduction in cut off grades for the reserve, further boosting total gold production over the life of the mine, extending the mine life and lifting project returns. The plant upgrade has been developed with the approach of minimising risk by utilising the same processes and technology currently in use at Lihir. A conservative approach has been taken to design and equipment specification. The MOPU Project is alsoi expected to deliver a range of benefits for the people of Lihir managed through the Lihir Sustainable Development Plan. It will provide significant investment into the local community at Lihir. Economic benefits will flow to landowners, employees and shareholders. 4A. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable 48 Table of Contents Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects A. Operating Results Introduction This section provides an analysis of the Company’s business and compares its fiscal year 2007 financial results with those of the previous two fiscal years. It should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements (or the “financial statements”) and related notes at Item 18 of this report. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared using IFRS as issued by the IASB. Additional information regarding the basis of preparation of the financial statements is set out in Note 1 of the financial statements, at Item 18. The following commentary provides information to assist investors with an understanding of the financial information. In this Item 5, the Consolidated Entity includes the Company and its subsidiaries (“the Consolidated Entity”). During the year the principal continuing activities of the Consolidated Entity consisted of the exploration for, development of and mining, processing and sale of, gold assets. In September 2007 the IASB released the revised “Presentation of Financial Statements” (IAS 1). The Company has early adopted IAS 1. Further details regarding the impact of adopting the revised IAS 1 can be found in Note 3 to Item 18 — Financial Statements. This section may contain certain un-audited non-GAAP measures, such as cash costs, non-cash costs and other operating costs not included in the determination of gross cash costs. The measures used and the presentation are intended to provide investors with information about the cash generating capacity and performance of the Company’s mining operations. In particular, cash costs is a measure that is used in the gold mining industry and was developed in conjunction with gold mining companies associated with the Gold Institute in an effort to provide a level of comparability. However, the Company’s measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. Management uses this measure for the same purpose when monitoring and evaluating the performance of the Company. This information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with GAAP and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with GAAP. Recent Developments MOPU Project On February 29, 2008 the Board of Directors announced the approval to proceed with a major upgrade of the Lihir operation which should lift gold production capacity to approximately 1 million ounces per year from 2011. The upgrade has been the subject of a rigorous 12 month feasibility study which concluded that it would provide a robust return, positioning the Company for increased output, lower cash costs and more reliable and consistent production. See “