Item 1A. Risk Factors. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks not presently known to us or which we consider immaterial based on information currently available may also materially adversely affect us. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business After August 2007, our cash flows from operations associated with space shuttle missions will be materially reduced. During fiscal year 2007, our Flight Services business unit derived over 98% of its revenues, which represented approximately 64% of consolidated revenues for fiscal year 2007, from the use of our modules and integrated cargo carriers by the space shuttle fleet. We have no contracted missions after August 2007 for our modules and we have terminated our leases for the integrated cargo carriers and will no longer have the use of the integrated cargo carrier. Our inability to generate new contracts on a timely basis will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we are unable to anticipate technological advances and customer requirements, including NASA’s requirements for products and services, our business and financial condition will be adversely affected. Our growth and future financial performance depend in part upon our ability to anticipate technological advances and customer requirements. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve the technological advances that may be necessary for us to remain competitive. In 2007, we commenced new business initiatives for the commercial exploitation of space. These new business initiatives will require large investments of capital and technical expertise. We may not be able to develop products and services in connection with these new business initiatives. Our failure to anticipate or respond adequately to changes in technology and NASA requirements, or delays in additional product development or introduction, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. We plan to develop new products and services for the space industry. No assurances can be given that we will be able to successfully develop these products and services. Our business strategy is to use the experience we have accumulated to expand the services and products we offer to the international space industry. These services and products generally involve the commercial exploitation of space, and involve new and untested technologies and business models. These technologies and business models may not be successful, which could result in the loss of any investment we make in developing them. Our attempt to develop new technologies and business models to commercially exploit space will require substantial additional capital, which may not be available to us, and which, if available may substantially dilute equity owners. Our future business operations will be focused on developing new technologies and business models for the commercial exploitation of space. We expect that these technologies and models will require substantial additional capital. No assurances can be given that capital will be available to us. The cost of future capital, if available, is likely to be very expensive, and is likely to substantially dilute holders of equity, including those that tender in the exchange offer. We incur fixed lease obligations for our payload processing facilities used to support our module and space shuttle operations and have no contracts for such future business. A substantial portion of our operating costs is a fixed lease obligation for our Cape Canaveral payload processing facility used to support our module and space shuttle operations. The balance of this lease extends over a period of 9 four more years. We currently have no revenue-generating contracts for future business that would support our module and space shuttle operations. We must obtain new contracts in order to generate future revenue. Our inability to generate new contracts would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, since a large portion of our operating costs are relatively fixed due to this lease obligation, variations in the timing and progress of future contracts can materially affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The completion of our space shuttle module mission in August 2007 will result in the redeployment or reduction of technical and operations personnel, which may result in us incurring severance obligations. Due to the completion of our space shuttle module mission in August 2007, we will either have to redeploy technical and operational personnel to other contracts, or reduce our workforce in order to lower our cost structure as part of a reorganization of operations. Any future reduction in workforce would be accompanied by the payment of severance obligations which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition, a future reduction in workforce would be accompanied by a risk of litigation, which if initiated or successful, could harm our business and financial position. Since we are dependent on NASA as a customer, if the products and services we are currently developing for use by NASA’s successor to the Space Shuttle Program are not used, our financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. Approximately 85% of our revenue for fiscal year 2007 was generated from eight contracts supporting NASA. We anticipate that revenue from NASA-related projects will continue to account for a material amount of our revenue in the future. In the past, we have developed products without any firm commitments from NASA. Although we may invest substantial amounts developing products for the shuttle’s replacement program without any contracts with NASA, we cannot provide any assurances that such products will be used. Since the final program that will be chosen by NASA is not currently known, we cannot provide any assurances that the products and services we may develop will be suitable for such replacement programs. If NASA or its contractors do not purchase the products and services we are developing for the shuttle’s replacement programs, our financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Termination of our backlog of orders could negatively impact our revenues. As of June 30, 2007, we had a firm backlog of approximately $26.8. Firm backlog consists of aggregate contract values, excluding the portion previously recognized as revenues, in work change orders on existing contracts, and our estimate of potential award fees. Backlog as of June 30, 2007 does not give effect to new orders received or any terminations or cancellations since that date. Approximately 51% of our firm contract backlog as of June 30, 2007 was derived from contracts with the U.S. Government and its agencies or from subcontracts with the U.S. Government’s prime contractors. Since our government contracts are contingent upon Congressional appropriations and are terminable “for convenience,” we cannot assure that our backlog will ultimately result in revenues. Our existing NASA contracts are subject to continued appropriations by Congress and may be terminated if future funding is not made available, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our financial performance is substantially dependent on the revenue generated from our contracts supporting NASA which, similar to contracts with other agencies of the U.S. Government, are conditioned upon the continuing availability of Congressional appropriations. The U.S. Congress usually appropriates funds for a given program on a fiscal year basis even though contract performance may extend over many years. Failure to receive sufficient funds from Congress or a withdrawal by Congress of prior appropriations would permit NASA to terminate its contracts with us “for convenience.” Therefore, no assurances can be made that Congress will continue to fund NASA at levels which will permit space shuttle missions to continue on their current schedules or that Congress will appropriate the funds necessary for NASA to fulfill its obligations under its contracts with us. Any substantial reduction in Congressional funding for space shuttle missions or annual appropriations to NASA to fulfill, among other things, NASA’s contracts with us or the U.S. commitment to the International Space Station, would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, termination of large programs or multiple contracts affecting our Flight Services business unit could require us to evaluate the continued viability of operating that business. 10 As a U.S. Government contractor, we are subject to a number of rules and regulations, the violation of which could result in us being barred from future U.S. Government contracts. We must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the award, administration, and performance of U.S. Government contracts. These laws and regulations, among other things: · Require certification and disclosure of all cost or pricing data in connection with certain contract negotiations. · Impose acquisition regulations that define allowable and unallowable costs and otherwise govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based U.S. Government contracts. · Restrict the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the exportation of certain products and technical data. A violation of specific laws and regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties, the termination of our contracts, or debarment from bidding on U.S. Government contracts. In some instances, these laws and regulations impose terms or rights that are more favorable to the Government than those typically available to commercial parties in negotiated transactions. For example, the Government may terminate any of our government contracts for convenience, as well as for default based on performance. In addition, U.S. Government contracts generally contain provisions that allow the Government to unilaterally suspend us from receiving new contracts pending resolution of alleged violations of certain federal laws or regulations, reduce the value of existing contracts, issue modifications to a contract, and control and potentially prohibit the export of our services and associated materials. Since a majority of our revenues are currently, and a material portion of future revenues are expected to be, derived from contracts supporting NASA, material modifications to our existing contracts or a prohibition against bidding on future U.S. Government contracts would have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit by the U.S. Government. U.S. Government agencies, including NASA, routinely audit and investigate government contractors. These agencies review a contractor’s performance under its contracts, cost structure, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards. The U.S. Government also may review the adequacy of, and a contractor’s compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor’s purchasing, property, estimating, compensation, and management information systems. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, while such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. If an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. Government. In addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm that affects our non-governmental business if allegations of impropriety were made against us. Most of our competitors have much greater financial resources than we do. The U.S. Government, the governments of other countries and private companies participate in the highly competitive space industry often as both suppliers and end-users of space services. Our long-term strategy growth is to commercially exploit space. These strategies could require us to compete with commercial companies such as The Boeing Company, Lockheed Martin Corporation and other large aerospace companies, many of which have existing NASA support contracts, substantially greater financial resources and manufacturing capabilities, more established and larger marketing and sales organizations, and larger technical staffs than we have. United Space Alliance, which is equally owned by The Boeing Company and Lockheed Martin Corporation, is the primary contractor for NASA’s Space Shuttle Program. United Space Alliance is responsible for the day-to-day operation and management of the U.S. Space Shuttle fleet. United Space Alliance is currently the primary contractor in the market for civil ground operations and payload processing services. We believe that the privatization of space station operations and successor programs will continue to result in intense competitive pressure among contractors to retain their current contracts and/or capture new payload processing work from other contractors. To the extent that these contractors are able to retain or enlarge their roles in payload processing operations, our ability to successfully compete for a share in this market could be impeded, which could have a material adverse effect on our future financial performance. At present, competition in the United States for our Astrotech spacecraft launch processing services is limited to the California (Vandenberg) launch site, where a competing company called California Commercial Spaceport Systems International is located. California Commercial Spaceport Systems International does not have payload processing 11 facilities in Florida, which is where the majority of U.S. commercial satellite launches occur. However, if California Commercial Spaceport Systems International or another satellite launch processing service provider were to build in Florida, or NASA were to expand its facilities in Florida, our financial performance could be adversely affected. The Astrotech strategy of extending the life of satellites has been in development for years by Boeing, DARPA, U.S. Naval Research Labs the U.S. Air Force and various European companies. Advancement by these entities or their ability to secure early contracts in this new sector could adversely affect our future growth plans and financial performance. A branch of the U.S. Government could construct spacecraft ground processing facilities at one or more of the domestic launch sites served by Astrotech which could significantly reduce the number of missions using Astrotech’s facilities. Astrotech currently provides services for domestic launch sites. In the event that the U.S. Government constructs spacecraft ground processing facilities that would compete with the launch sites currently serviced by Astrotech, there would be a reduced need for use of Astrotech’s facilities. This would result in the U.S. Government competing directly with us for our existing customers in connection to servicing domestic launch sites, which in the aggregate could significantly reduce our revenues. The U.S. Government, as a competitor to Astrotech, may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do in this area of spacecraft ground processing facilities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against the U.S. Government as a potential competitor in this area or that these competitive pressures we may face will not result in reduced revenues and market share for us. Our earnings and margins may vary because many of our contracts are fixed-price contracts. As of June 30, 2007, we had one significant cost-reimbursable and 11 significant fixed-price contracts. Cost-reimbursable contracts generally have lower profit margins than fixed-price contracts. Our Flight Services and Astrotech spacecraft processing business units’ contracts are mainly fixed-price contracts. Under fixed-price contracts, we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur and, consequently, any costs in excess of the fixed price are absorbed by us. Cost overruns also may adversely affect our ability to sustain existing programs and obtain future contract awards. Under a fixed-price contract, if we are unable to control costs we incur in performing under the contract, our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. We are under a fixed-price contract to construct building improvements for a government client at Astrotech’s facilities and could incur losses or performance penalties in completing the work. We currently have a contract to construct building improvements for the U.S. Government at Astrotech’s facilities on a fixed-price basis. While a fixed-price contract allows us to benefit from cost savings, it also exposes us to the risk of cost overruns. If the initial estimates we used to calculate the contract price and the cost to perform the work prove to be incorrect, we could incur losses. In addition, this contract has specific provisions relating to cost, schedule, and performance. If we fail to meet the terms specified in such contract, then our cost to perform the work could increase or our price could be reduced, which would adversely affect our financial condition. Moreover, successful performance of this contract depends on our ability to meet production specifications and delivery rates. If we are unable to perform and deliver under contract requirements, our contract price could be reduced through the incorporation of performance penalties, such as liquidated damages, termination of the contract for default, or other financially significant exposure. Thus, this fixed-price contract has a substantial risk for potential losses if our estimated costs exceed our estimated price or if we cannot perform in accordance with the terms of the contract. Most of the costs for our Astrotech business unit are fixed regardless of the number of spacecraft that are processed at our facility. The primary costs related to our Astrotech business unit are associated with operating and running our three spacecraft launch processing facilities. These costs remain relatively unchanged regardless of whether or not customers are using the facilities. As a result, if we do not properly estimate the number of satellites that will be processed when calculating our price structure for our spacecraft processing services, our financial results could be adversely affected. 12 Our financial results could be adversely affected if the estimates that we use in accounting for contracts are incorrect and need to be changed. Contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. The estimation of total revenues and cost at completion for many of our contracts is complicated and subject to many variables. Assumptions have to be made regarding the length of time to complete the contract because costs also include expected increases in wages and prices for materials. Incentives or penalties related to performance on contracts are considered in estimating revenue and profit rates, and are recorded when there is sufficient information for us to assess anticipated performance. Estimates of award and incentive fees are also used in billing customers and estimating revenue and profit rates based on actual and anticipated awards. If our performance under a cost reimbursable contract results in an award fee that is lower than we have estimated, we would be required to refund previously billed fee amounts and would have to adjust our revenue recognition accordingly. If our performance was determined to be significantly deficient, we may be required to reimburse our customer for the entire amount of previously billed awards. Because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes described above, it is likely that materially different amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances, or estimates may adversely affect future period financial performance. If we are unable to find users of future products we develop without a contract for such product, we will have to write-off the value of such assets. We have in the past, and expect to continue in the future, to fund development of certain projects prior to being awarded a contract for such projects. No assurances can be made that any funds we may spend in the future in connection with the development of new products will lead to the award of a contract or that any such contract will be awarded on terms that are economically favorable to us. In addition, we depreciate space hardware, and intend to depreciate future capital assets that are dedicated to supporting the space shuttle over a period that approximates the useful life of the space shuttles. However, since we do not expect to receive additional contracts for the use of our modules, we will be required to write-off the remaining value of our modules. In addition, in the event we are not awarded contracts for the use of future products or services, we could be required to write-off the value of any future capital assets, and/or costs of prepaid services performed, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our spacecraft payload processing facilities are specifically designed to process satellites and other payloads and we would lose a substantial portion of their value if we no longer provided these services. Our Astrotech spacecraft processing facilities and the payload processing facilities for our Flight Services business unit were built specifically to process satellites and our modules and integrated cargo carriers. These facilities are not well suited for other uses. Currently, our Astrotech facilities in Titusville, Florida are depreciated using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives which range from 16 to 40 years. If we were required to terminate our satellite or module processing businesses, the value of these facilities would be significantly impaired. In addition to having to take a substantial write-down of the value of our Titusville, Florida facility on our books, if we attempted to sell this facility we do not think that we would be able to recover the amounts we have invested. If we were able to sublease our leased facilities, we do not think such subleases would be sufficient to cover our current rental payments. Due to our substantial capital expenditures for our spacecraft processing facilities and the limited uses of these facilities, the termination of operations at our Titusville, Florida facility that we own, or one or more of our other leased facilities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We incur substantial costs in preparing proposals to bid on contracts that we may not be awarded. Preparing a proposal to bid on a contract is generally a three to six month process. This process is time consuming and results in the incurrence of substantial costs that are generally not reimbursable even if the contract is awarded. We have prepared proposals for and bid on contracts that were not awarded to us in the past and anticipate that we could incur substantial costs related to contracts that are not ultimately awarded to us in the future. In addition, even if we are awarded a contract, we generally do not begin performing work for several months after the bidding process is complete. If funding problems by the party awarding the contract or other matters further delay our commencement of work on the contract, these delays may lower the value of the contract to us, even rendering it unprofitable. 13 Because our operating results are highly dependent on the timing of space shuttle missions and spacecraft launches, they may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Our microgravity product processing strategy relies on sending our payload samples to and from space which requires us to rely on access to space on-board the space shuttle, Progress, Soyuz, ATV, Falcon, HTV, ARCTUS or K-1 rockets. The timing and availability of space shuttles or spacecraft missions that could carry our samples, the availability of third party launch vehicles, the number and types of missions flown, the number and timing of satellite launches that use our Astrotech spacecraft processing facilities, and other factors can cause our results of operations to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Most obligations under our contracts, including contract-related engineering, research and development, and selling, general and administrative expenses, are recorded in the periods in which they are incurred. Accordingly, we may report routine operating losses in quarters in which no space missions are in process. In addition, we have incurred significant losses in the past and, as such, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. Compliance with environmental and other government regulations could be costly and could negatively affect our financial condition. Our business, particularly our Astrotech spacecraft processing business unit, is subject to numerous laws and regulations governing the operation and maintenance of our facilities and the release or discharge of hazardous or toxic substances, including spacecraft fuels and oxidizers, into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. Under these laws and regulations, we could be liable for personal injury and clean-up costs and other environmental and property damages, as well as administrative, civil, and criminal penalties in the event of a violation of these laws, or a release of a hazardous substances at or from our facilities, and such liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our failure to comply with U.S. export control laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. We are obligated by law and under our NASA contracts to comply, and to ensure that our subcontractors comply, with all U.S. export control laws and regulations, including the International Traffic in Arms Regulations and the Export Administration Regulations. We are responsible for obtaining all necessary licenses or other approvals, if required, for exports of hardware, technical data, and software, or for the provision of technical assistance. We are also required to obtain export licenses, if required, before utilizing foreign persons in the performance of our NASA contracts if the foreign person will have access to export-controlled technical data or software. The violation of any of the applicable export control laws and regulations, whether by us or any of our subcontractors, could subject us to administrative, civil, and criminal penalties. Our inability to maintain required government security clearances or the impact of foreign ownership or control could result in a loss of potential future spacecraft ground processing and other opportunities. In order to be a service and product provider for spacecraft ground processing and other related activities, we are required to maintain certain government security clearances and we must comply with laws that limit foreign ownership and control. We may be subject to regulatory action and possibly other sanctions if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations relating to required security clearances and foreign ownership and control. This could harm our reputation, our prospects for future work and our operating results. Failure to comply could also result in the termination of current operations. A finding by the U.S. Government that we are not in compliance with security clearance standards could materially and adversely affect us. Similarly, a finding by the U.S. Government that we are not in compliance with foreign ownership and control laws or other related legislative requirements could materially and adversely affect us. Our facilities located in Florida and California are particularly susceptible to damage caused by hurricanes, earthquakes, or other natural disasters. Our largest Astrotech spacecraft processing facility, which we own, and our leased Flight Services facility on the east coast of Florida are particularly susceptible to damage caused by hurricanes or other natural disasters. In addition, our leased launch processing facilities at Vandenberg Air Force Base and the facilities we operate at the Port of Long Beach are subject to damage caused by earthquakes. The extent to which the buildings located at these facilities are designed to sustain natural disasters varies. Although we insure our properties and maintain business 14 interruption insurance, there can be no assurance that such insurance would be sufficient. If a severe hurricane, earthquake, or other natural disaster materially affected any of these facilities, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The loss of key management and other employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are dependent on the personal efforts and abilities of our senior management, and our success will also depend on our ability to attract and retain additional qualified employees. We do not maintain key man insurance with any of these employees. Failure to attract personnel sufficiently qualified to execute our strategy, or to retain existing key personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our business. A long and protracted restructuring could cause us to lose key management and technical employees and otherwise adversely affect our business. If we fail to consummate the exchange offer on a timely basis, any alternative we pursue, whether in or out of court, may take substantially longer to consummate than the exchange offer. A protracted financial restructuring would further disrupt our business and would divert the attention of our management from operation of our business and implementation of our business plan. It is likely that such a prolonged financial restructuring or bankruptcy proceeding would cause us to lose many of our key management employees, including the most senior members of management. It is also likely a prolonged financial restructuring or bankruptcy proceeding would cause us to lose customer contracts or be ineligible to obtain government contracts. Such losses or key management employees would likely make it difficult for us to complete a financial restructuring and may make it less likely that we will be able to continue as a viable business (see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations —Liquidity and Capital Resources). There may be no market for our stock on an active trading market. The NASDAQ has notified us that we are in violation of their listing requirements, since we have not maintained our share price for our common stock of $1.00 or more. If we do not meet the share price requirement by October 3, 2007, our common stock may be delisted from NASDAQ. If we are delisted we have no current plans to list on any securities exchange or other stock market. It is possible that the market for our stock will be subject to disruptions. You may not be able to sell your stock when you want and, if you do sell, you may not be able to receive the price you want. If we fail to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our reputation, financial condition, and the value of our notes and capital stock may be adversely affected. Beginning with our report for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2008, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will require us to include an internal control report of management with our annual report on Form 10-K, which is to include management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of the fiscal year. The report will also be required to include a statement that our independent auditors have issued an attestation report on management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. In order to achieve compliance with Section 404 within the prescribed period, management is utilizing outside consultants to aid us in the adoption of a detailed project work plan that assesses the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, remediates any control weaknesses that may be identified, validates through testing that controls are functioning as documented, and implements a continuous reporting and improvement process for internal control over financial reporting. However, we may not be able to complete the work necessary for our management to issue its management report in a timely manner, or any work that will be required for our management to be able to report that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. In addition, our independent auditors may not be able to issue an attestation report on management’s assessment. Our failure to comply with Section 404, including issuing the management report and obtaining the attestation report, may materially adversely affect our reputation, our financial condition, and the value of our securities, including our outstanding notes, exchange units, and common stock. Furthermore, our costs of compliance with Section 404, including the cost of remedying any identified weaknesses, could be material and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 15 If we are unable to effect the exchange offer, we may file for bankruptcy, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we are unable to complete the exchange offer for any reason, we may restructure through a bankruptcy proceeding. Our ability to restructure in bankruptcy is subject to numerous risks, including the following: · We may lose customers in bankruptcy because our services are critical to our customers’ businesses. · The costs of bankruptcy will significantly exceed the costs of an out-of-court transaction. · We may be unable to arrange debtor-in-possession financing or otherwise finance our operations during bankruptcy. Any alternative restructuring through a bankruptcy proceeding could be on terms less favorable than those set forth in this exchange offer. If a bankruptcy proceeding were to occur, there is a risk that your ability to recover your investments would be substantially delayed and more impaired than under the proposed exchange offer. The expenses of any bankruptcy case could reduce the assets available for payment or distribution to our creditors, including holders of the Junior Notes and Senior Notes. In addition, a bankruptcy proceeding (either voluntary or involuntary) may not increase the amount of any payment or distribution that you, as a tendering holder, would receive. In fact, a bankruptcy proceeding could reduce such amount and, in any event, would delay any payment or distribution. Even if the exchange offer is successfully consummated, we will still need substantial additional capital. Our capital requirements for continuing operations consist of our general working capital needs, scheduled principal and interest payments on our debt obligations, certain contractual commitments, and capital expenditures. This includes short-term capital to finance continuing operations at the end of 2007, and long-term capital to finance our growth. Our capital resources which are solely comprised of cash reserves and cash generated from operations, may not be sufficient to meet these capital requirements. While we believe that the exchange offer would help address our foreseeable refinancing risk related to the Junior Notes that mature in October 2007, there is no assurance that the exchange offer will be sufficient to alleviate our liquidity issues due to a lack of capital resources. In addition, with the conclusion of STS-118 in August 2007, we expect to have a material decrease in our revenue from our Flight Services business, which has accounted for over 70% of our consolidated revenue during the first nine months of fiscal year 2007. Moreover, our revolving credit line expired on February 11, 2007. As a result, in order to continue to fund our current operations, we will need additional capital. No assurance can be given that we will be able to obtain a new source of capital on terms that are acceptable to us. If we are unable to obtain new capital, we may be forced to subject ourselves to bankruptcy, reorganization, liquidation, dissolution or similar proceeding. Restructuring our obligations under our outstanding notes has resulted in increased costs to us. We are incurring significant restructuring costs in connection with the exchange offer. The exchange offer has also resulted in significant costs to us as we pay professional fees related to evaluating our restructuring alternatives and pursuing the exchange offer. These increased costs may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 