ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in ICH common stock involves risk. Current and prospective investors should consider carefully the following risk factors, in addition to the other information contained in this and other reports and documents filed by us with the SEC, including documents incorporated herein by reference, before making decisions to purchase, hold or sell ICH common stock. Any failure of our investment professionals to comply with regulatory requirements may cause us to incur losses or suffer substantial harm to our business and operations. Our investment professionals are required by law to be licensed with our subsidiaries as registered broker-dealer representatives and/or investment adviser representatives and solicitors. Pursuant to these requirements, these investment professionals are subject to our supervision in the area of compliance with applicable federal and state securities laws, rules and regulations, as well as the rules and regulations of self-regulatory organizations such as the NASD. The violation of any regulatory requirements by us or our investment professionals could jeopardize our broker-dealer or investment adviser license and could subject us to fines and liability to customers. As an example, a pending administrative complaint brought by the Massachusetts Securities Division alleges that our broker-dealer subsidiary violated its supervisory obligations in connection with sales of equity-indexed annuities by certain of its independent representatives. The complaint seeks, among other things, a fine, restitution of customer losses and suspension or revocation of the firm's Massachusetts broker-dealer license. An adverse disposition of this proceeding, which is being vigorously contested by the Company, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Any loss of key personnel could adversely affect our business and financial condition through the loss of significant business relationships that may not be easily recreated. Our success is largely dependent on the skills, experience and performance of certain key personnel, particularly Theodore E. Charles, our chairman, chief executive officer and president whose long-term relationships with our investment professionals and business partners has been and continues to be the driving force to our company's success, and Timothy B. Murphy, our executive vice president, treasurer and chief financial officer as well as the president of our broker-dealer subsidiary. The loss of Messrs. Mr. Charles and/or Murphy or other senior management could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Consumer fraud could harm our earnings and profits by requiring us to expend time and money and exposing us to financial loss and the potential for arbitration or other legal proceedings. We are constantly exposed to the risk of significant losses as a result of customer fraud. Activities such as authorizing trades and not accepting those trades if anticipated stock movement is not achieved; paying for transactions with bad funds; improperly stating investment experience, net worth, income amount and tolerance for risk, could result in the expenditure of time, money and actual loss, with the latter exposing us to the potential for arbitration. Actual or alleged fraud and misconduct by investment professionals and employees has resulted in and exposes us to an ongoing potential for litigation and regulatory sanctions that could substantially harm our business and results of operations. Employees and investment professionals constantly expose us to the risk of significant losses as a result of employee errors, investment professional misconduct and fraud. Such misconduct could include binding us to transactions that exceed authorized limits or present unacceptable risks, or hiding from us unauthorized, unsuccessful or improper activities. It is not always possible to deter employee or independent contractor misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. 13 Any failure to maintain adequate internal controls could result in regulatory sanctions that could result in substantial fines and could restrict our ability to make money. In the past our broker-dealer subsidiary had not been in compliance with its required net capital reserve because of an accounting oversight relating to under-accrued commissions. These under-accrued commissions occurred in the last five days of a month where the receipt of income did not have a corresponding commission payable expense item applied against it. We made a capital infusion into our broker-dealer subsidiary in the amount of $200,000 in order to correct the net capital deficiency and, at the same time, notified the regulatory authorities of the net capital problem and our corrective action. No regulatory action was taken against our broker-dealer subsidiary. Any similar or other failure to maintain adequate accounting procedures and internal controls could result in regulatory sanctions being applied against our broker-dealer subsidiary, which sanctions could severely restrict our activities, require us to pay substantial fines and limit our ability to make money. We are routinely involved in legal proceedings that can burden our resources and pose an ongoing risk of adverse dispositions that could negatively impact our earnings and profits. By the nature of our business, we are continually involved with various judicial, regulatory and arbitration proceedings concerning matters arising in connection with the conduct of our business. At March 31, 2006, the Company was the co-defendant in several lawsuits with claims totaling approximately $4.10 million. Although we currently have insurance that may limit our exposure in these cases, if we are found liable in material amounts in these or other legal proceedings, such eventuality may result in restricting the availability and/or increasing the cost of insurance against such risks and may have a significant adverse effect on our earnings and profits. Any change in our clearing firm could result in our inability to process transactions in a timely manner which could adversely affect our business operations and profits. Our current clearing agreement is with Pershing, which processes most of the securities transactions for our account and the accounts of our customers. We also rely on our clearing firm for our Internet securities trading activities, which is a growing portion of our business. Our agreement with Pershing may be terminated by either party on ninety days written notice. A change in our clearing firm could result in the inability of our customers to transact business in a timely manner due to delays and errors in the transfer of their accounts, which, on a temporary basis, could affect our earnings and profits. Management's ownership of our common stock assures their control of most corporation actions requiring a shareholder vote. The Company's executive officers beneficially own in the aggregate a majority of the Company's common stock. Accordingly, they collectively are able to determine the outcome of virtually all corporate actions requiring approval by the stockholders of the Company, including, without limitation, the election of directors and the approval of the sale of the Company or its assets. We face vigorous competition. The financial industry segments in which the Company and its subsidiaries operate are highly competitive, and many of our current and potential competitors have considerably greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than are available to us. The price of our common stock may continue to be volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially in the past including during the last twelve months. The price of our common stock may be subject to fluctuations in the future in response to operating results, regulatory and other legal proceedings, general market movements and other factors. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. These fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Any market decline could adversely affect our revenues and earnings. Because our revenues and earnings are derived from investments made by consumers, a substantial market decline, similar to the period after September 11, 2001, can impact the investment decisions made by consumers. Our market is speculative and is subject to volatility as a result of unfortunate events. 14 EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The following sets forth, as of June 29, 2006, certain information with respect to each of the executive officers of ICH: Theodore E. Charles, age 63, principal executive officer. A founder of Investors Capital Holdings, Mr. Charles has served as the Company's chairman of the board, chief executive officer and president since its inception in 1995. Mr. Charles also has served as the chief executive officer of our subsidiaries, Investors Capital Corporation ("ICC") and Eastern Point Advisors, Inc ("EPA") since their founding in 1994 and 1995, respectively. Mr. Charles served on the Board of Directors of Revere Savings Bank of Massachusetts from 1997 to 2001 and served on the Advisory Board of Danvers Savings Bank from 2001 to 2003. Mr. Charles currently holds various securities licenses, including series 6, 63, 7 and 24, has been a member of the Financial Planning Association since 1985 and formerly served as Chairman of the Shareholder Advisory Board of Life USA Insurance Company. Timothy B. Murphy, age 41, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer. A founder of the Company, Mr. Murphy has served as executive vice president, treasurer and chief financial officer of the Company since its inception, and as president of its subsidiaries, ICC and EPA, since their respective inceptions. He entered the securities industry in 1991 as an operations manager in the Boston regional office of Clayton Securities. By 1994, he was serving as compliance officer of Baybanks Brokerage and a vice president of G.R. Stuart & Company, another brokerage firm. Mr. Murphy holds various securities licenses including series 4, 7, 24, 27, 53, 63 and 65. Steven C. Preskenis, age 36. Mr. Preskenis has served as Chief Operating Officer of ICC, and has performed similar policy-making functions for ICH, since February 2006. Mr. Preskenis, who joined the Company in August 2000 as a compliance attorney, also has served as General Counsel of ICC, and has performed similar functions for ICH, since March 2003, and has served as Secretary of ICH since September 2005. Prior to joining ICC in August 2000, Mr. Preskenis served as an Alternative Dispute Resolution attorney with John Hancock Life Insurance Company commencing in 1998. Mr. Preskenis is a member of the Massachusetts Bar and a graduate of Suffolk University Law School. 