Risk Factors.” President Fujimori resigned in 2000 in favor of a transitory government due to an outbreak of corruption scandals. President Toledo then assumed the presidency in 2001 after a period of political turmoil, facing high unemployment and underemployment, an economic recession and social need. In 2006, Alan García was elected for a five year-term, during which remained the main outlines of the economic model, promoting private investment to stimulate the economy. 53 Presidential elections were initially held in Peru on April 10, 2011 and a second round of elections was held on June 5, 2011. The winner of the elections was Ollanta Humala, who defeated Keiko Fujimori. While President Humala’s initial proposals as a candidate were designed to radically change the economic model that was already in effect, his signing of a "road map", which promised to be moderate, was important for his electoral victory. Among his first acts as president-elect were the ratification of the Central Bank’s president and the appointment of Luis Castilla, who served as Deputy Minister under the previous government, as Minister of Finance. Both of these appointees contributed to recover the investment climate that deteriorated during presidential campaigns period. However, the recovery has been affected by perceived risks abroad, where the Eurozone is under pressure. Despite the uncertainty generated during the first half of 2011 (due to the radical changes proposed by Humala) and the global economic slowdown in the second half of 2011, the Peruvian economy managed to close the year with an economic growth of 6.9%. In 2012, concerns about the health of the Chinese economy created a new source of uncertainty but China ultimately returned to more sustainable growth. During 2012, Peru grew 6.3%, mainly as a result of non-primary sectors highly linked with domestic demand, particularly construction and services. Despite the economic strides achieved since 1990 and the high rate at which Peruvian economy has expanded in the last decade, poverty remains a persistent problem, with 30% of the population living below the poverty line, which the World Bank defines as monthly income of less than US$60 per capita, adjusted to reflect differences in purchasing power. A significant number of Peruvians live on an income of less than US$30 per capita per month. (ii)Peruvian Economy During his second term (2006 - 2011), President Alan Garcia continued the market-oriented policies that started in the 1990s with President Fujimori’s structural reforms. Nevertheless, some interventionist measures were passed due to surge of populist initiatives from Congress and social pressures from unions and regional movements. In 2011, presidential elections outcome (Ollanta Humala’s victory) anticipated a shift in government political orientation, which had a negative impact on business confidence and growth perspectives. Although initial concerns on Humala’s government have been mitigated in part by cabinet appointments and political arrangements aimed to reassure investor’s confidence and reaffirm economy’s direction, political risks have not disappeared entirely. In addition to political changes and the application of sound macroeconomic policies, the positive external outlook allowed Peru to grow at an average of 5.7% in the last decade, reaching a positive growth rate even during the global financial crisis in 2009. In that year, within a global comparison, Peru was among the countries with the highest GDP-growth rates: 0.9% in a year when global production decreased 1.1%. In the following years of recovery Peru continued outperforming global economy and even developed regions, growing 8.8% in 2010, 6.9% in 2011, and 6.3% in 2012. The Peruvian economy grew 6.3% in 2012, despite higher uncertainty about the Eurozone and a concerns about Chinese manufacturing production and exports. Private consumption and investment grew in the second half of the year. In addition, exports unexpectedly rose in the first quarter of 2012 and increased overall during 2011. During 2007, the Free Trade Agreement (FTA) with the United States was signed and the trade deal was put into effect on February 1, 2009, concluding a long process of trade negotiations and goodwill. The FTA made permanent the special access to the U.S. market enjoyed under the Andean Trade Promotion and Drug Eradication Act. The current trade between these countries is around US$13 billion annually (15.7% of total trade). The FTA is expected to encourage higher export growth and diversification, as well as accelerate reforms that will further enhance the investment climate in Peru, which is already benefiting from high flows of foreign direct investment. Progress was made toward reaching more trade agreements with Peru’s most important trade partners like China (the FTA started in march 2010), which currently stands as the principal destination of Peruvian exports, mainly commodities and primary goods. In 2012, trade between both countries reached US$15.5 billion (17.7% of Peru’s total trade). Also, Peru concluded trade agreement negotiations with the European Union, Japan and Mexico. It is expected, these agreements will help boost growth in the export sector, which has been relatively flat since 2008 compared to the growth in domestic demand. These agreements have improved the competitive position of Peruvian exporters relative to exporters in other global markets. 54 Peru’s trade surplus in 2012 was US$3.1 billion, a lower result than in 2010 and 2011. This trade surplus was the result of lower prices for export products (particularly mineral products) and a strong domestic demand combined with higher prices for imports and food (soybean, corn, wheat). Although the trade surplus in 2012 was not as high as the surplus in 2011, relative to historical levels, trade remained high and produced a sizeable net surplus. Peru has had a history of high and persistent current account deficits. Nevertheless, a process of gradual correction of external imbalances started in recent years. Between 2007 and 2010, Peru’s current account balance reached an average deficit of US$2.1 billion, which is equivalent to 1.3% of Peru’s GDP. After a brief interruption in 2008, when the deficit again reached high levels (US$5.3 billion, or 4.2% of GDP), and a small surplus in 2009 (0.2% of GDP) due to a decrease in imports and in investment income (during period of slow global economic growth), the correction resumed. In 2011 and 2012, Peru again recorded current account deficits, which were linked to a process of capital accumulation. These recent deficits (close to 2.5% of GDP in 2011 and 4.0% of GDP in 2012) were not a source of concern because they were completely financed by the financial account, which derives more than 70% of its total inflows from long-term capital. Peru’s financial account had an average surplus of US$9.6 billion between 2008 and 2012, resulting largely from higher foreign direct investment and long-term loans that accompanied improved investor sentiment about the Peruvian economy. A notable exception to the sizeable surpluses Peru recorded during this period occurred in 2009. That year the financial account surplus declined to US$1.5 billion, due to lower capital inflows and global economic uncertainty, mainly in the first half of the year. Surpluses during the second half of 2009 were sizeable enough to create a surplus for the year. Between 2010 and 2012, despite some volatility, growth in capital inflows gradually lead to the return of high financial account surpluses, as investors adjusted their risk appetite and became more comfortable with investments in emerging countries. Nevertheless, stress associated with the ongoing Eurozone fiscal crisis, has had short-term negative effects on investment inflows into Peru. Inflation in Peru, as measured by the Lima consumer price index, was 3.3% on average over the past five years. After reducing the Peruvian Central Bank's target of 2.5% to 2.0%, with a +/-1% range, inflation was above the target range in 2008, registering at 6.65%. The inflation rate during this period was influenced by higher international commodity prices. As of December 31, 2010 the inflation rate was 2.1%, compared to a 0.25% inflation rate at the end of 2009. Inflation in 2011 was 4.7%, significantly above the Central Bank’s inflation range, driven by external supply shocks (higher commodity prices) as well as local supply shocks (less local food supply). In 2012, inflation was 2.65%, with a sharp correction, driven by a reduction in prices of imported food (especially grains) and oil, occurring in the last quarter of the year. The exchange rate for Nuevos Soles in Peru has appreciated 18.8% over the past five years, from S /. 3.141 per US$1.00 on December 31, 2007 to S /. 2.551 per US$ 1.00 on December 31, 2012. The Nuevo Sol posted gains of 2.8% in 2010, 3.9% in 2011, and 5.4% in 2012. Appreciation of the Nuevo Sol was substantially due to capital inflows received by emerging economies as a result of economic troubles in the European Union (EU). In 2012, the Nuevo Sol strengthened overall, but underwent periods of depreciation as a result of political uncertainty associated with international markets, both developed and emerging. A sound policy framework put in place in recent years and an increase in Peru’s international reserves have improved the business environment and contributed to the reduction of economic vulnerabilities and poverty in Peru (even though poverty still affects to over 30% of the population). Although Peru recorded a fiscal deficit of 0.3% of GDP in 2010, Peru recorded strong fiscal surpluses in subsequent years (around 2.0% of GDP in each in 2011 and 2012), which have supported a significant reduction in public debt and improved the maturity schedule of Peru’s overall debt profile. In an uncertain global economy, these are important fiscal buffers. A sound monetary policy that targets inflation has also been instrumental in helping to Peru maintain macroeconomic stability and reduce dollarization. Other structural reforms also have reduced Peru’s fiscal and financial vulnerabilities. Free trade agreements and demand for new trade markets, lower informality, and improvement in its business climate have helped Peru improve its long-term growth outlook, which is reflected in more investments in the Peruvian economy. These achievements are believed to have strengthened Peru’s ability to weather economic pressures originating outside of Peru. Building on Peru’s strong fundamentals, including a resilient financial system, several measures have been implemented by the authorities that will help to, preserve adequate liquidity conditions in the domestic markets, and bolster domestic confidence. The Peruvian financial system has proven to be strong, despite the impact of the global financial crisis. Banking credit, which averaged 31.8% growth in 2007 and 2008, lost momentum, closing 2009 with only a 9.5% growth. The economic recovery in Peru has increased demand for banking credit, which grew by 14.3% in 2010, 18.5% in 2011, and 13.0% in 2012. Peru’s Central Bank has indicated that continuous credit growth over 15% has eventually led to a financial crisis, in several countries, and the Central Bank is trying to avoid; such a crisis in Peru. In particular, the Central Bank’s concerns are focused on foreign currency credit, and it has gradually increased reserve requirements over the course of the last year. As a consequence, average requirements have increased to 19.0% from 14.3% in local currency and to 41.7% from 38.7% in foreign currency during 2012. 55 Peruvian authorities have been implementing reforms to strengthen Peru’s financial system and improve the country’s international liquidity position. Peru’s Central Bank is focused on maintaining healthy foreign currency credit levels, and therefore reserve requirements have continuously increased during 2012. Average reserve requirements increased to 19% from 14.3% in local currency and to41.7% from 38.7% in foreign currency during 2012. In periods of economic contraction, the Peruvian Central Bank could use its considerable foreign reserves, which have risen from 28.6% of GDP in December 2010 to approximately 32.0% in December 2012, and other mechanisms to provide liquidity to Peru’s domestic financial system. Also, the increase in the capital ratio of Peru’s banking system from 13.6% in December, 2010 to 14.1% in December 2012 indicates that solvency has improved. Peru’s short term domestic economic outlook continues to appear to be favorable, despite lingering uncertainty about the global economy. The Peruvian economy grew 6.3% in 2012, reflecting a strong domestic demand and sharp increase in mining investments. Inflation is expected to remain close to 2% (+/- 1%), at the center of Central Bank’s target range. The main risks to the Peruvian economy appear to be external and largely related to the results of the continued economic recovery in developed countries. We consider that Peru’s current fiscal position, including the 2012 surplus, the amount of funds accumulated by the public sector (US$ 7.2 billion as of December 31, 2012), and the fact that the country is now rated investment grade (BBB according to S&P and Fitch; Baa2 according to Moody's), have strengthened Peru’s ability to face future crises. Peru’s medium-term prospects are considered to be favorable, provided that the country continues to follow prudent macroeconomic policies and deal with longstanding structural challenges. (10)The Peruvian Financial System As our activities are conducted primarily through banking and insurance subsidiaries operating in Peru, a summary of the Peruvian financial system is set forth below. (i)General On December 31, 2012, the Peruvian financial system consisted of the following principal participants: the Central Bank, the SBS, 16 banking institutions (not including Banco de la Nación, a Peruvian state-owned bank), 11 finance companies, and 2 leasing companies. In addition, Peru has various mutual mortgage associations, municipal and rural savings and credit associations, municipal public credit associations and savings and credit cooperatives, which totaled 33 entities as of December 31, 2012. Law 26702 regulates Peruvian financial and insurance companies. In general, it provides for tighter loan loss reserve standards, brings asset risk weighting in line with Basel Committee on Banking Regulations and Supervisory Practices of International Settlements (or the Basel Accord) guidelines, broadens supervision of financial institutions by the SBS to include holding companies, and includes specific treatment of a series of recently developed products in the capital markets and derivatives areas. (ii)Central Bank The Central Reserve Bank (or the Central Bank) was established in 1922. Pursuant to the Peruvian Constitution, its primary role is to ensure the stability of the Peruvian monetary system. The Central Bank regulates Peru’s money supply, administers international reserves, issues currency, determines Peru’s balance of payments and other monetary accounts, and furnishes information regarding the country’s financial situation. It also represents the government of Peru before the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the Latin American Reserve Fund (a financial institution whose purpose is to provide balance of payments assistance to its member countries by granting credits or guaranteeing loans to third parties). 56 The highest decision-making authority within the Central Bank is its seven-member board of directors. Each director serves a five-year term. Of the seven directors, four are selected by the executive branch and three are selected by the Congress. The Chairman of the Central Bank is one of the executive branch nominees but must be approved by Peru’s Congress. The Central Bank’s board of directors develops and oversees monetary policy, establishes reserve requirements for entities within the financial system, and approves guidelines for the management of international reserves. All entities within the financial system are required to comply with the decisions of the Central Bank. (iii)The Superintendency of Banks, Insurance and Pension Funds (SBS) The SBS, whose authority and activities are discussed in “—(11) Supervision and Regulation,” is the regulatory authority in charge of implementing and enforcing Law 26702 and, more generally, supervising and regulating all financial, insurance and pension fund institutions in Peru. In June 2008, Legislative Decree 1028 and 1052 were approved modifying Law 26702 with the following objectives: (i) to strengthen and to increase competitiveness, (ii) to implement Basel II and (iii) to adapt the current regulatory framework to the FTA signed between Peru and the United States. The main amendments defined in Law 1028 were designed to promote the development of Peruvian capital markets by extending the range of financial services that could be offered by microfinance institutions (i.e., non-banks) without requiring SBS authorization. Law 1028 also modified the framework in which the Peruvian financial system is to be harmonized with the new international standards established by the Basel II Accord (which aims to minimize the issues regarding regulatory arbitrage). Since July 2009, Peruvian financial institutions generally have applied a standardized method to calculate their capital requirement related to credit, market and operational risk. As an alternative to the standardized method, financial institutions may request authorization from the SBS to use different models for calculating the reserve amount associated with any of these three risks. In July 2009, the SBS started receiving applications to use alternative models, referred to as Internal Models Methods. If the amount of an institution’s reserve requirements would be higher using the standard model than it would be using the an approved Internal Models Method, then the institution will have to maintain between 80% and 95% of the standard amount during a phase in period, Even after the phase in period, institutions using an Internal Models Method will be subject to regulatory capital floors. Law 1052 aims to include and synchronize Law 26702 and the FTA’s framework, particularly regarding insurance services. The amendments allow offering cross-border services and have simplified the process for international institutions to enter into the Peruvian market by establishing subsidiaries. (iv)Financial System Institutions Under Peruvian law, financial institutions are classified as banks, financing companies, other non-banking institutions, specialized companies and investment banks. BCP is classified as a bank. Banks A bank is defined by Law 26702 as an enterprise whose principal business consists of (i) receiving money from the public, whether by deposits or by any other form of contract, and (ii) using such money (together with the bank’s own capital and funds obtained from other sources) to grant loans or discount documents, or in operations that are subject to market risks. 57 Banks are permitted to carry out various types of financial operations, including the following: (i) receiving demand deposits, time deposits, savings deposits and deposits in trust; (ii) granting direct loans; (iii) discounting or advancing funds against bills of exchange, promissory notes and other credit instruments; (iv) granting mortgage loans and accepting bills of exchange in connection with the mortgage loans; (v) granting conditional and unconditional guaranties; (vi) issuing, confirming, receiving and discounting letters of credit; (vii) acquiring and discounting certificates of deposit, warehouse receipts, bills of exchange and invoices of commercial transactions; (viii) performing credit operations with local and foreign banks, as well as making deposits in those institutions; (ix) issuing and placing local currency and foreign currency bonds, as well as promissory notes and negotiable certificates of deposits; (x) issuing certificates in foreign currency and entering into foreign exchange transactions; (xi) purchasing banks and non-Peruvian institutions which conduct financial intermediation or securities exchange transactions in order to maintain an international presence; (xii) purchasing, holding and selling gold and silver as well as stocks and bonds listed on one of the Peruvian stock exchanges and issued by companies incorporated in Peru; (xiii) acting as financial agent for investments in Peru for external parties; (xiv) purchasing, holding and selling instruments evidencing public debt, whether internal or external, as well as obligations of the Central Bank; (xv) making collections, payments and transfers of funds; (xvi) receiving securities and other assets in trust and leasing safety deposit boxes; and (xvii) issuing and administering credit cards and accepting and performing trust functions. In addition, banks may carry out financial leasing operations by forming separate departments or subsidiaries. Banks may also promote and direct operations in foreign commerce, underwrite initial public offerings, and provide financial advisory services apart from the administration of their clients’ investment portfolios. By forming a separate department within the bank, banks may also act as trustees in trust agreements. Law 26702 authorizes banks to operate, through their subsidiaries, warehouse companies, securities brokerage companies, and to establish and administer mutual funds. Branches of foreign banks enjoy the same rights and are subject to the same obligations as Peruvian banks. Multinational banks, with operations in various countries, may perform the same activities as Peruvian banks, although their foreign activities are not subject to Peruvian regulations. To carry out banking operations in the local market, multinational banks must maintain a certain portion of their capital in Peru, in at least the minimum amount that is required for Peruvian banks. Finance Companies Under Law 26702, finance companies are authorized to carry out the same operations as banks, with the exception of (i) issuing loans as overdrafts in checking accounts and (ii) participating in derivative operations. These operations can be carried out by finance companies only if they fulfill the requirements stated by the SBS. Other Financial Institutions The Peruvian financial system has a number of less significant entities which may provide credit, accept deposits or otherwise act as financial intermediaries on a limited basis. Leasing companies specialize in financial leasing operations where goods are leased over the term of the contract and in which one party has the option of purchasing the goods at a predetermined price. Savings and loans associations or cooperatives may accept certain types of savings deposits and provide other similar financial services. Peru also has numerous mutual housing associations, municipal savings and credit associations, savings and credit cooperatives and municipal credit bureaus. Over the past five years the entry of new participants, including foreign banks and non-bank financial institutions, has increased the level of competition in Peru. Insurance Companies Since the Peruvian insurance industry was deregulated in 1991, insurance companies have been authorized to conduct all types of operations and to enter into all forms of agreements that are needed to offer risk coverage to customers. Insurance companies may also invest in financial and non-financial assets, although they are subject to the regulations on investments and reserves established in Law 26702 and the regulations issued by the SBS. Law 26702 is the principal law governing insurance companies in Peru. The SBS is charged with the supervision and regulation of all insurance companies. The formation of an insurance company requires prior authorization of the SBS. 58 The insurance industry has experienced consolidation in recent years with the number of companies decreasing from 19 in 1991 to 14 in 2012. (11)Supervision and Regulation (i)Credicorp Currently there are no applicable regulations under Bermuda law that are likely to materially impact our operations as they are currently structured. Under Bermuda law, there is no regulation applicable to us, as a holding company that would require that we separate the operations of our subsidiaries incorporated and existing outside Bermuda. Since our activities are conducted primarily through our subsidiaries in Peru, the Cayman Islands, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia and Panama, a summary of the main regulations governing our businesses is set forth below. Our common shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). We are therefore subject to regulation by the NYSE and the SEC as a “foreign private issuer.” We also must comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are, along with BCP, subject to certain requirements set forth in Peruvian Law 26702 (“Peruvian Banking Law” or “Law 26702”) as well as certain banking statutes issued by the Peruvian banking regulator, SBS, including SBS Resolution No. 11823-2010, enacted in September 2010 and which approved the “Regulation of the Consolidated Supervision of Financial and Mixed Conglomerates.” These regulations affect BCP and us primarily in the areas of reporting, risk control guidelines, limitations, ratios and capital requirements. Since our common shares are listed on the Lima Stock Exchange in addition to the New York Stock Exchange, we are subject to certain reporting requirements to Superintendencia del Mercado de Valores, the Peruvian securities market regulator, and the Lima Stock Exchange. See “Item 9. The Offer and Listing—(C) Markets—The Lima Stock Exchange—(ii) Market Regulation.” (ii)BCP Overview BCP’s operations are regulated by Peruvian law. The regulations for the operation of the Peruvian financial sector are stated in Law 26702. The SBS periodically issues resolutions that cause Law 26702 to be developed. See “—(10) The Peruvian Financial System.” The SBS supervises and regulates entities that Law 26702 classifies as financial institutions. These entities include commercial banks, finance companies, small business finance companies, savings and loan corporations, financial services companies such as trust companies and investment banks, and insurance companies. Financial institutions must seek the SBS’s authorization before beginning operations. BCP’s operations are supervised and regulated by the SBS and the Central Bank. Those who violate Law 26702 and its underlying regulations are subject to administrative sanctions and criminal penalties. Additionally, the SBS and the Central Bank have the authority to issue fines to financial institutions and their directors and officers if they violate the laws or regulations of Peru, or their own institutions’ bye-laws. The Superintendencia del Mercado de Valores (SMV), formerly known as CONASEV, is the Peruvian government institution in charge of (i) promoting the securities market, (ii) making sure fair competition takes place in the securities markets, (iii) supervising the management of businesses that trade in the securities markets and (iv) regulating their activities and accounting practices. BCP must inform SMV of significant events that affect its business and is required to provide financial statements to it and the Lima Stock Exchange each quarter. BCP is also regulated by SMV when it conducts operations in the local Peruvian securities market. Under Peruvian law, banks may conduct brokerage operations and administer mutual funds but must do so through subsidiaries. However, bank employees may market the financial products of the bank’s brokerage and mutual fund subsidiaries. Banks are prohibited from issuing insurance policies, but are not prohibited from distributing insurance policies issued by insurance companies. 59 Authority of the SBS Peru’s Constitution and Law 26702 (which contains the statutory charter of the SBS) grant the SBS the authority to oversee and control banks and financial institutions (with the exception of brokerage firms, which are regulated by SMV), insurance and reinsurance companies, companies that receive deposits from the general public, AFPs and other similar entities as defined by the law. The SBS is also responsible for supervising the Central Bank to ensure that it abides by its statutory charter and bye-laws. The SBS has administrative, financial and operating autonomy. Its objectives include protecting the public interest, ensuring the financial stability of the institutions over which it has authority and punishing violators of its regulations. Its responsibilities include: (i) reviewing and approving, with the assistance of the Central Bank, the establishment and organization of subsidiaries of the institutions it regulates; (ii) overseeing mergers, dissolutions and reorganization of banks, financial institutions and insurance companies; (iii) supervising financial, insurance and related companies from which information on an individual or consolidated basis is required, through changes in ownership and management control (this supervision also applies to non-bank holding companies, such as us); (iv) reviewing the bye-laws and amendments of bye-laws of these companies; (v) issuing criteria governing the transfer of bank shares, when permitted by law, for valuation of assets and liabilities and for minimum capital requirements; and (vi) controlling the Central de Riesgos (Bank Risk Assessment Center), to which all banks are legally required to provide information regarding all businesses and individuals with whom they deal without regard to the amount of credit risk (the information provided is made available to all banks to allow them to monitor individual borrowers’ overall exposure to Peru’s banks). In addition to them, the SBS is also responsible for stating the criteria relating to the existence of financial or mixed conglomerates in Peru and their supervision. As a result of it, despite its supervision of BCP, the SBS also supervises Credicorp Ltd. on the basis that we are a financial conglomerate conducting the majority of our operations in Peru. Management of Operational Risk SBS Resolutions No. 37-2008, which encompasses the guidelines for enterprises risk management (ERM) frameworks, and 2116-2009 established guidelines for operational risk management, which includes a broad range of risks and defines operational risks as those resulting from the possibility of suffering financial losses due to inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or from adverse external events. It also establishes responsibilities for developing policies and procedures to identify, measure, control and report such risks. Banks are required to adequately manage risks involved in the performance and continuity of their operations and services in order to minimize possible financial losses and reputation damage due to inadequate or non-existent policies or procedures. Banks also are required to develop an information security model to guarantee physical and logical information integrity, confidentiality and availability. Credicorp, following these SBS guidelines, as well as the guidelines issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, and the advice of international consultants, has appointed a specialized team responsible for operational risk management across our organization. This team reports regularly to our risk committee, top managers and Board of Directors. In evaluating operational risks and potential consequences, we mainly assess risks related to critical processes, new products, critical suppliers, critical information assets and technological components. To support the operational risk management process we have developed a Business Continuity Management (BCM) discipline, which involves the implementation of continuity plans for critical business processes, incident management, and training and testing. In addition, our methodology and data processing team has developed procedures to register, collect, analyze and report operational risk losses, looking forward to the implementation of advanced models for operational risk capital allocation. Lastly, we have monitoring and reporting procedures, designed to monitor Key Risk Indicators (KRI) and other performance metrics. 60 We intend to be guided by the risk control standards of international financial institutions that are noted for their leadership in this field. Our overall objective is to implement an efficient and permanent monitoring system to control operational risks, while the actual management of risk control procedures is conducted by the areas that carry out critical activities. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to make certain certifications regarding our internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012. We have developed internal methods to identify and evaluate risk and controls over our critical processes to determinate how effective internal controls are over financial reporting. BCP Capital Adequacy Requirements Capital adequacy requirements applicable to us are set forth in the Peruvian Banking Law (Law 26702), as amended, and monitored and regulated by the SBS. Law 26702 was enacted in December 1996 and amended in June 2008 through Legislative Decree 1028. The amendment became effective in July 2009 and was aimed at adapting the Peruvian Banking Law to the capital guidelines and standards established by the second Basel Accord (Basel II). Basel II standards modified the methodology to measure credit, market and operational risks to allow the use of standardized and internal model-based methods. Basel II standards also allow Peruvian financial institutions to request authorization from the SBS to implement an internal ratings-based (IRB) methodology. Financial institutions that receive approval from the SBS to use the IRB methodology are subject to regulatory capital floors. The amount of capital required may not be less than the percentage of capital required under an alternative methodology. First Year Second Year Third Year Basic IRB and Internal Models of Credit Risk 95% 90% 80% Advanced Models of Credit Risk and/or Operational Risk 90% 80% — Prior to June 2009, the capital requirements were based upon the guidelines established by the first Basel Accord (Basel I). Financial institutions were required to limit risk-weighted assets to 11 times their regulatory capital, which is equivalent to a minimum capital ratio of 9.09% of risk-weighted assets. Risk-weighted assets were calculated based upon five risk categories depending on the perceived risk of each asset class. Pursuant to the Basel II guidelines, financial institutions are required to hold regulatory capital that is greater than or equal to the sum of (i) 10% of credit risk-weighted assets, and (ii) 10 times the amount required to cover market and operational risks. The new minimum capital requirements were implemented as follows. Implementation date Regulatory capital (% of total weighted assets) Total risk-weighted assets July 1st, 2009 9.5% 10.5 times the regulatory capital needed to cover market risks; plus 10.5 times regulatory capital needed to cover operational risks; plus Total amount of credit risk-weighted assets. July 1st, 2010 9.8% 10.2 times the regulatory capital needed to cover market risks; plus 10.2 times the regulatory capital needed to cover operational risks; plus Total amount of credit risk-weighted assets. July 1st, 2011 10% 10 times the regulatory capital needed to cover market risks; plus 10 times the regulatory capital needed to cover operational risks; plus Total amount of credit risk-weighted assets. 61 In November 2010, the SBS released a consultative document, which established the proposed methodologies for calculating additional capital requirements consistent with Pilar 2 of Basel II and certain aspects of Basel III. Comments on this document were due February 18, 2011. On July 20, 2011, the SBS issued SBS Resolution 8425-2011, establishing the final methodologies and the implementation schedule of the aforementioned additional capital requirements. The new capital requirements, which are aimed at covering risks not contemplated in Pilar I of Basel II, include requirements to cover concentration, interest rate and systemic risk. Additionally, pro-cyclical capital requirements were also established. These new requirements will be implemented over a period of five years starting in July 2012. Article 184 of Law 26702, as amended by Legislative Decree 1028, provides that regulatory capital may be used to cover credit risk, market risk and operational risk. Regulatory capital is comprised of the sum of basic capital and supplementary capital, and is calculated as follows: •Basic Capital: Basic Capital or Tier 1 capital is comprised of: (i) paid-in-capital (which includes common stock and perpetual non-cumulative preferred stock), legal reserves, supplementary capital premiums, voluntary reserves distributable only with prior SBS approval, and retained earnings with capitalization agreements (earnings that the shareholders or the Board of Directors, as the case may be, have committed to capitalize as common stock); (ii) other elements that have characteristics of permanence and loss absorption that are in compliance with regulations enacted by the SBS, such as hybrid securities; and (iii) unrealized gains and retained earnings in Subsidiaries. Items deducted from Tier 1 capital include: (i) current and past years’ unrealized losses; (ii) deficits of loan loss provisions; (iii) goodwill resulting from corporate reorganizations or acquisitions; and (iv) half of the amount referred to in “Deductions” below. Absent any Tier 2 capital, 100% of the amount referred to in “Deductions” below must be deducted from Tier 1 capital. The elements referred to in item (ii) above should not exceed 17.65% of the amount resulting from adding components (i) and (iii) of Tier 1 capital net of the deductions in (i), (ii) and (iii) in this paragraph. •Supplementary Capital: Supplementary capital is comprised of the sum of Tier 2 and Tier 3 capital. Tier 2 capital elements include: (i) voluntary reserves that may be reduced without prior consent from the SBS; (ii) the eligible portion of redeemable subordinated debt and of any other components that have characteristics of debt and equity as provided by the SBS; (iii) for banks using the Standardized Approach Method (SAM), the generic loan loss provision up to 1.25% of credit risk-weighted assets; or, alternatively, for banks using the IRB Method, the generic loan loss provision up to 0.6% of total credit risk-weighted assets (pursuant to article 189 of the Law); and (iv) half of the amount referred to in “Deductions” below. Tier 3 capital is comprised of redeemable subordinated debt that is incurred with the exclusive purpose of covering market risk, as referred to in Article 233 of the Law. •Deductions: The following elements are deducted from Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital: (i) all investments in shares and subordinated debt issued by other local or foreign financial institutions and insurance companies; (ii) all investments in shares and subordinated debt issued by an affiliate with which the bank consolidates its financial statements, including its holding company and such subsidiaries referred to in Articles 34 and 224 of the Law; (iii) the amount in which an investment in shares issued by a company with which the bank does not consolidate its financial statements and which is not part of the bank’s negotiable portfolio, exceeds 15% of the bank’s regulatory capital; (iv) the aggregate amount of all investments in shares issued by companies with which the bank does not consolidate its financial statements and which are not part of the bank’s negotiable portfolio, exceeds 60% of the regulatory capital; (v) when applicable, the amount resulting from the formula prescribed in Article 189 of the Law. For the purposes herein, “regulatory capital” excludes the amounts referred to in (iii), (iv) and (v) of this paragraph. 62 Article 185 of the Law 26702 also provides that the following limits apply when calculating regulatory capital: (i) the aggregate amount of supplementary capital must not exceed the aggregate amount of basic capital; (ii) the amount of redeemable Tier 2 subordinated instruments must be limited to 50% of the amount resulting from the sum of Tier 1 elements net of the deductions in (i), (ii), and (iii) in “Basic Capital” above; (iii) the amount of Tier 3 capital must be limited to 250% of the amount resulting from the sum of Tier 1 elements net of the deductions (i), (ii), and (iii) in “Basic Capital” above in the amounts assigned to cover market risk. SBS Resolution 8548-2012, adopted in 2012, modified the regulatory capital requirements for credit risk weighted assets in SBS Resolution 14354-2009 and established a schedule for implementing the modifications. As of December 31, 2012, BCP’s regulatory capital was 14.72% of its unconsolidated risk-weighted assets, indicating that BCP had risk-weighted assets that were 6.79 times the amount of regulatory capital. As of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, BCP’s regulatory capital was 14.53% and 12.84% of its unconsolidated risk-weighted assets, respectively. Legal Reserve Requirements In accordance with Peruvian regulation - article 67 of Law 26702-, a reserve of up to at least 35 percent of paid-in capital of the Group’s subsidiaries operating in Peru is required to be established through annual transfers of at least 10 percent of their net income. In accordance with Bolivian regulation, a reserve of up to at least 50 percent of paid-in capital of the Group’s subsidiaries operating in Bolivia is required to be established through annual transfers of at least 10 percent of their net income. As of December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, these reserves amounted to approximately US$620.3 million, US$461.9 million and US$441.5 million, respectively. Provisions for Loan Losses Credicorp’s allowance model is an IFRS compliant loss estimation model that comprises a number of methodologies which estimate losses per client for Wholesale Banking and losses per segment (pool) for Retail Banking, in line with IASC39. Depending on the portfolio analyzed, each methodology takes into consideration collateral recovery projections, outstanding debt, maturity and qualitative aspects that reinforce the estimate. Some examples of qualitative aspects are the complexity of the recovery processes, sector trends, and officers’ judgment of the estimated recovery values. The methodology includes three estimation scenarios: base, upper threshold and lower threshold. These scenarios are generated by modifying some assumptions, such as collateral recovery values and adverse effects due to changes in the political and economic environments. The process to select the best estimate within the range is based on management´s best judgment, complemented by historical loss experience and the Company’s strategy (e.g. penetration in new segments). Central Bank Reserve Requirements Under Law 26702, banks and financial institutions are required to maintain legal reserve requirements for certain obligations. The changes in the reserve requirement regulations were made in the second half of 2010 in accordance with the monetary policy adopted by the Central Bank. The Central Bank requires financial instructions to maintain marginal reserve requirements for local and foreign currency obligations. The exact level and method of calculation of the reserve requirement is established by the Central Bank. The reserve requirements in Peru apply to obligations such as demand and time deposits, savings accounts, securities, certain bonds and funds administered by the bank. Additionally, the Central Bank requires reserves on amounts due to foreign banks and other foreign financial institutions. Furthermore, as of January 2011, obligations of foreign subsidiaries and affiliates are also subject to the reserve requirement. Among other exemptions, funding from the public sector directed to the microfinance sector and foreign credits with periods of 2 years or more are not subject to the regulation. 63 In 2011, the Central Bank, as a part of its monetary policy to restrict internal demand and the risk of inflation, maintained the minimum level of reserves for banks at 9%. Bank obligations are subject to a marginal reserve ratio of 55% in foreign currency and 25% in local currency. The reserve funds can be constituted by cash and deposits, with a minimum of 3% held in deposits in current accounts in the Central Bank. Additionally, the marginal reserve requirement on foreign credits with a tenor of less than 2 years has remained at 60% since January 2011. The Central Bank establishes a remuneration rate on marginal reserves that exceeds the minimum legal requirement of 9% but only in the instance that such reserves are deposited in the Central Bank’s current account. Foreign currency cannot be used to comply with reserve requirements for liabilities in domestic currency, and vice versa. The Central Bank oversees compliance with the reserve requirements. The reference interest rate is periodically revised by the Central Bank in accordance with its monetary policy objectives. Once a month the board of directors of the Central Bank approves and announces the monetary program through a press release. In the mid-2010 the Central Bank changed its monetary policy to a more restrictive position to account for the rapid growth of domestic demand and the potential for dangerous levels of inflation. Since then, there have been consecutive increases in the reference interest rate, which was raised most recently in May 2011 from 4.00% to 4.25%. As of December 2012, the reference interest rate remained at that level. In the past few years, the Central Bank has been actively changing the reserve requirement applicable to Peruvian financial institutions as part of its monetary policy, something that is not usual in other LatAm countries, with the notorious exception of Brazil. Regulations put in place during 2012 -in a context of avoiding a higher rate of appreciation- have increased the amount of reserves required in S/.3,859 million and US$1,555 million in local and foreign currency respectively. This new environment has led to an increase in the funding cost of the bank. Changes in the reserve requirement regulation may adversely affect the bank´s business, financial conditions and results of operations. Marginal requirement rates in Nuevos Soles and Dollars increased during 2012 four times, and as a consequence, the average rate increased to 18.8% from 14.3% in local currency and to 41.2% from 38.7% in foreign currency. In December 2012, the estimated reserve position of commercial banks was S/. 15,500 million and US$ 10,500 million in local and foreign currency, respectively. Lending Activities Law 26702 sets the maximum amount of credit that a financial institution may extend to a single borrower. A single borrower includes an individual or an economic group. An economic group constituting a single or common risk includes a person, such person’s close relatives and the companies in which such person or close relatives have significant share ownership or decision-making capability. Significant decision-making capability is deemed to be present when, among other factors, a person or group can exercise material and continuous influence upon the decisions of a company, when a person or company holds seats on the board of directors or has principal officers in another company, or when it can be assumed that one company or person is the beneficial recipient of credit facilities granted to another company. The limit on credit that may be extended to one borrower varies according to the type of borrower and the collateral received. The limit applicable to credit for any Peruvian borrower is 10% of the bank’s regulatory capital, applied to both unconsolidated and consolidated records, which may be increased to up to 30% if the loan is collateralized in a manner acceptable under Law 26702. If a financial institution exceeds these limits, the SBS may impose a fine on the institution. As of December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, the 10.0% credit limit per borrower of BCP, unconsolidated, was US$350.1 million, US$267.1 million and US$197.4 million, respectively, for unsecured loans, and the 30.0% limit for secured loans was US$1,050.5, US$801.3 million and US$592.2 million, respectively, for the last three years. Pursuant to Article 52 of the organic law of the Central Bank, in certain circumstances, the Central Bank has the authority to establish limits on interest rates charged by commercial banks and other financial institutions. No such limits are currently in place; however, there can be no assurance that the Central Bank will not establish such limits on interest rates in the future. 64 Related Party Transactions Law 26702 regulates transactions between financial institutions on the one hand and related parties and or affiliates on the other. SBS and SMV have also enacted regulations that define indirect ownership, related parties and economic groups, in order to limit transactions with related parties and affiliates. These regulations also provide standards for the supervision of financial and mixed conglomerates formed by financial institutions. The total amount of loans to directors, employees or close relatives of any such persons may not exceed 7% of a bank’s regulatory capital. All loans made to any single director or employee borrower, considering his/her close relatives may not exceed 0.35% of such regulatory capital (i.e., 5% of the overall 7% limit). Pursuant to Law 26702, as amended by Law 27102, the aggregate amount of loans to related party borrowers considered to be part of an economic group (as defined above) may not exceed 30% (previously 75%) of a bank’s regulatory capital. For purposes of this test, related party borrowers include (i) any person holding, directly or indirectly, 4% or more of a bank’s shares, (ii) directors, (iii) certain principal executive officers of a bank or (iv) persons affiliated with the administrators of the bank. Loans to individual related party borrowers are also subject to the limits on lending to a single borrower described under “—Lending Activities” above. All loans to related parties must be made on terms no more favorable than the best terms that BCP offers to the public. Ownership Restrictions Law 26702 establishes certain restrictions on the ownership of a bank’s shares. Banks must have a minimum of two shareholders. Among other restrictions, those convicted of drug trafficking, asset laundering, terrorism and other felonies, or those who are directors, employees and advisors of public entities that regulate and supervise the activities of banks, are subject to ownership limitations. All transfers of shares in a bank must be recorded at the SBS. Transfers involving the acquisition by any individual or corporation, whether directly or indirectly, of more than 10% of a bank’s capital stock require prior authorization from the SBS. The SBS may deny authorization to such transfer of shares if the purchasers (or their shareholders, directors or employees in the case of juridical persons) are legally disabled, have engaged in illegal activity in the area of banking, finance, insurance or reinsurance, or if objections are raised on the basis of the purchaser’s moral fitness or economic solvency, among others. The decision of the SBS is final, and cannot be overturned by the courts. If a transfer is made without obtaining the prior approval of the SBS, the purchaser shall be fined with an amount equivalent to the value of the transferred shares and is obligated to sell the shares within 30 days, or the fine is doubled. In addition, the purchaser is not allowed to exercise its voting rights at the shareholders’ meetings. Foreign investors receive the same treatment as Peruvian nationals and are subject to the limitations described above. Finally, under Peruvian law, individuals or corporations that acquire, directly or indirectly, 1% of the capital stock of a bank in a period of 12 months or acquire a 3% or more share participation, have the obligation to provide the information that the SBS may require to identify such individuals’ or corporations’ main economic activities and assets structure. Risk Rating Law 26702 and SBS Resolutions No. 672 and 18400-2010, require that all financial companies be rated by at least two risk rating companies on a semi-annual basis, in addition to the SBS’s assessment. Criteria to be considered in the rating include risk management and control procedures, loan quality, financial strength, profitability, liquidity and financial efficiency. Five risk categories are assigned, from “A” (lowest risk) to “E” (highest risk), allowing for sub-categories within each category. As of September 2012, BCP was assigned the “A+” risk category by its two rating agencies, Equilibrium Clasificadora de Riesgo and Apoyo and Associates International. As of December 2012, BCP maintained the risk category of “A+”. 65 Deposit Fund Law 26702 provides for mandatory deposit insurance to protect the deposits of financial institutions by establishing the Fondo de Seguro de Depósitos (Deposit Insurance Fund or the Fund) for individuals, associations, not-for-profit companies, and demand deposits of non-financial companies. Financial institutions must pay an annual premium calculated on the basis of the type of deposits accepted by the entity and the risk classification of such entity, made by the SBS and at least two independent risk-rating agencies. The annual premium begins at 0.65% of total funds on deposit under the coverage of the Fund and increases to 1.45% applicable to banks in the highest risk category. BCP is currently classified in the lowest risk category. The maximum amount (defined on a monthly basis) that a customer is entitled to recover from the Fund is S/. 91,216 as of December 31, 2012. Intervention by the SBS Pursuant to Law 26702, as amended by Law 27102, the SBS has the authority to seize the operations and assets of a bank. These laws provide for three levels of action by the SBS: a supervisory regime, an intervention regime and the liquidation of the bank. Any of these actions may be taken if certain events occur, including if the bank: (i) interrupts payments on its liabilities, (ii) repeatedly fails to comply with the regulations of the SBS or the Central Bank, (iii) repeatedly violates the law or the provisions of the bank’s bye-laws, (iv) repeatedly manages its operations in an unauthorized or unsound manner or (v) has its regulatory capital fall or be reduced by more than 50%. During the intervention regime, rather than seizing the operations and assets of a bank, the SBS may adopt other measures, including (i) placing additional requirements on the bank, (ii) ordering it to increase its capital stock or divest certain or all of its assets, or (iii) imposing a special supervision regime during which BCP must adhere to a financial restructuring plan. The SBS intervention regime stops a bank’s operations for up to 45 days and may be extended for an additional 45 days. During this time, the SBS may institute measures such as: (i) canceling losses by reducing reserves, capital and subordinated debt, (ii) segregating certain assets and liabilities for transfer to another financial institution and (iii) merging the intervened bank with an acquiring institution according to the program established by Urgent Decree No. 108-2000, enacted in November 2000. After the intervention, the SBS will liquidate the bank unless it is merged with an acquiring institution, as described in (iii) above. Regulation from the United States Federal Reserve Bank and from the State of Florida Department of Banking and Finance Banco de Crédito del Perú Miami Agency (“BCP Miami Agency”) is licensed to operate as an International Agency in the State of Florida and was authorized to transact business by the Comptroller of Florida on September 3, 2002. The Office of Financial Regulation of the State of Florida shares regulatory responsibility with the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. Regulation from the Superintendency of Banks in Panama BCP Panama is a branch of BCP that is registered in the Republic of Panama. It began operating in June 2002 under an International License issued by the Panamanian Superintendence of Banks, in accordance with Law Decree No. 9 of February 26, 1998, as amended. BCP Panama is subject to an inspection every two (2) years made by auditors and inspectors of the Panamanian Superintendence of Banks, to determine, among other things, its compliance with the Decree Law No. 2 and No. 42 Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering. 66 (iii)Atlantic Security Bank (ASB) General ASB, a subsidiary of ASHC, is a Cayman Islands bank with a branch in Panama. ASB is regulated by the regulatory authorities of the Cayman Islands while its Panama branch is regulated by the banking authorities of Panama. ASB is registered as an exempt company and is licensed in the Cayman Islands pursuant to the Banks and Trust Companies Law. ASB holds an unrestricted Category B Banking and Trust License, as well as a Mutual Fund Administrator License. As a holder of a Category B License, ASB may not take deposits from any person residing in the Cayman Islands other than another licensee, an exempt company or an ordinary non-resident company which is not carrying on business in the Cayman Islands. ASB may not invest in any asset which represents a claim on any person residing in the Cayman Islands, except a claim resulting from: (i) a loan to an exempt or an ordinary non-resident company not carrying on business in the Cayman Islands; (ii) a loan by way of mortgage to a member of its staff or to a person possessing or being deemed to possess Caymanian status under the immigration law, for the purchase or construction of a residence in the Cayman Islands to be owner-occupied; (iii) a transaction with another licensee or (iv) the purchase of bonds or other securities issued by the government of the Cayman Islands, a body incorporated by statute, or a company in which the government is the sole or majority beneficial owner. In addition, ASB may not, without the written approval of the Cayman Islands Monetary Authority (the “Authority”), carry on any business in the Cayman Islands other than business permitted by the Category B License. There are no ratio or liquidity requirements under the Cayman Banking Law, but the Authority expects observance of prudent banking practices. As a matter of general practice, the ratio of liabilities to capital and surplus should not exceed 40-to-1 and the ratio of risk-weighted assets to capital and surplus should not exceed 8.33-to-1 (approximately 12%). There is a statutory minimum net worth requirement of US$480,000, but the Authority generally requires a bank or trust company to maintain a higher paid-in capital appropriate to its business. The Authority requires compliance with the guidelines promulgated by the Basel Accord on Banking Regulations and Supervisory Practices although, in special circumstances, different gearing and/or capital risk asset ratios may be negotiated. Compliance with the Cayman Banking Law is monitored by the Authority. Continuing Requirements Under the law of the Cayman Islands, ASB is subject to the following continuing requirements: (i) to remain in good standing under the Cayman Islands Companies Law, including the filing of annual and other returns and the payment of annual fees; (ii) to file with the Registrar of Companies any change in the information or documents required to be provided and to pay annual fees; (iii) to file certain prescribed forms with the Authority on a quarterly basis; (iv) to file with the Authority audited accounts within three months of each financial year (in the case of a locally incorporated bank which is not part of a substantial international banking group, a senior officer or board member discusses these accounts each year at a meeting with the Authority) and (v) to file an annual questionnaire. ASB is required by the Cayman Banking Law to have at least two directors. Additionally, ASB must receive prior approval from the Authority (i) for any proposed change in the directors or senior officers, though in exceptional cases a waiver can be obtained enabling changes to be reported after the event or annually in the case of a branch of a substantial international bank; (ii) for the issue, transfer or other disposal of shares (it is rare for a waiver to be granted with respect to shares except in the case of a branch of a substantial international bank and where the shares are widely held and publicly traded); (iii) for any significant change in the business plan filed on the original license application or (iv) to open a subsidiary, branch, agency or representative office outside the Cayman Islands. Finally, ASB must obtain the prior approval of the Authority to change its name and must notify the Authority of any change in its principal office or its authorized agent in the Cayman Islands. 67 (iv)BCP Bolivia Until March 2010, the Bolivian banking system operated under the Law of Banks and Financial Entities No. 1488, enacted on April 14, 1993, which was modified by Law 3076 of June 20, 2005, which granted supervisory powers to the Superintendency of Banks and Financial Entities (pursuant to Supreme Decree 29894, now referred to as the FSSA. In addition, the law established that the Central Bank of Bolivia (BCB by its Spanish initials) would regulate financial intermediation and deposit activities, determine monetary and foreign exchange policy, and establish reserve requirements on deposits and capital adequacy, which banks and financial companies were required to follow. Also, the Financial System Supervisory Authority has the mandate to supervise brokerage activities and mutual fund management that is conducted through BCP Bolivia’s subsidiaries, Credibolsa S.A. and Credifondo S.A. These subsidiaries operate under the Securities Markets Law No. 1834, enacted on March 31, 1998. Also Bolivia’s new constitution, which was approved by referendum in February 2009, established that the Bolivian financial system is to be regulated as follows: •The Central Bank of Bolivia is responsible for maintaining the stability of the internal monetary value and has authority to regulate monetary policy, control foreign exchange policies, regulate the payment system, authorize the issuance of money and administrate international reserves in coordination with the Economic Policy stated by the Public Sector. •All financial entities (banks, mutual funds, securities, insurance and others) are regulated by the Financial System Supervisory Authority which has assumed all regulatory functions held previously by the Superintendency of Banks and Financial Entities and the Superintendency of Pensions, Securities and Insurance. The changes to existing laws by the new Bolivian constitution have not materially impacted BCP Bolivia’s business. In 2012, the Bolivian government sanctioned an additional income tax of 12.5% of earnings before taxes applicable to all financial institutions with a ratio of earnings before taxes to equity in excess of 13%. Additionally, in November 2012, the government approved a new tax on sales of foreign exchange. This new tax levies all sales of foreign exchange with a 0.70% rate applicable on the amount of foreign currency sold. Finally, in November 2012, the government announced the conversion of Banco Unión (formerly a private bank majority owned by the government) into a public bank. As of December 2012, Banco Unión ranked fifth when measured by gross loans. (v)Investment banking BCP Capital The company falls under the supervision of the SMV, a specialized technical body attached to the Ministry of Finance, aimed to ensure the protection of investors, efficiency and transparency of the markets, as well as the diffusion of the information required for such purposes. It enjoys functional, administrative, economic, technical and budgetary autonomy. The Securities Market Law as amended, approved by Legislative Decree Nº 861, governs the public offering and trading of securities, listed in the SMV and Lima Stock Exchange. The latter institution, as the only stock exchange in Peru, also provides internal regulations which form part of the regulations and administrative rulings that govern the offering and trading of securities. Correval Correval S.A. falls under the supervision of the Superintendencia Financiera de Colombia, an entity whose main function is to oversee the financial and insurance sectors. Although it has an important role monitoring and surveillance, it also has certain regulatory powers which permit it to issue laws and decrees. 68 Additionally, the Autorregulador del Mercado de Valores de Colombia (AMV) supervises and regulates the conduct of security intermediaries, as well as the certification of those who carry out such activities. AMV is a private entity, and is the product of a self-regulation scheme established after the termination of Law 964 of 2005. Correval Panama S.A., is regulated and supervised by the Superintendencia del Mercado de Valores de Panama S.A. IM Trust IM Trust’s principal legal framework comes from Law 18,046. All companies involved in the stock market are supervised directly by the Superintendencia de Valores y Seguros (SVS). The SVS ensures that persons or supervised institutions, from formation until liquidation, comply with laws, regulations, statutes and other provisions governing the functioning of these markets. The SVS also authorizes companies to manage mutual funds (AFM and AGF) and oversees these companies and funds to ensure compliance with laws and regulations by monitoring their legal, financial and accounting information. In Chile, there are laws, regulations and rules that govern the various sectors of the stock market. One such law is the Securities Market Law, which governs the functioning of the Chilean market and the laws relating to corporations, management of third-party funds (investment funds, mutual funds, pension funds and others) and the deposit and custody of securities. Credicorp Securities The CSI operates from one location in Coral Gables, Florida, United States of America. All new accounts and all securities transactions are reviewed and approved at the Coral Gables office. All representatives are assigned to and supervised from the Coral Gables main office. CSI is registered with the SEC and is a member of FINRA and the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC). As a member of SIPC, CSI protects customers’ investment accounts up to $500,000 of which $100,000 may be in cash and $400,000 may be in securities. There are three principals at CSI all of which are Series 7 and Series 24 licensed (General Securities Principal). At the trading desk employees are Series 7 licensed (Registered Representative), Series 55 licensed (Equity Trader), and Series 4 licensed (Registered Options and Security Futures Principal). We also have an in-house Series 27 (Financial and Operations Principal). Members of CSI’s back-office staff are either Series 99 licensed (Operations Professional) or Series 7 licensed. (vi)Grupo Pacífico Overview Grupo Pacífico’s operations are regulated by Law 26702 and the SBS. Peruvian insurance companies must submit regular reports to the SBS concerning their operations. In addition, the SBS conducts on-sight reviews on an annual basis. The SBS conducts these reviews primarily to evaluate a company’s compliance with solvency margin and reserve requirements, investment requirements and rules governing the recognition of premium income. If the SBS determines that a company is unable to meet the solvency margin or technical reserve requirements, or is unable to pay claims as they come due, it may either liquidate the company or permit it to merge with another insurance company. Under Peruvian law, insurance companies may engage in certain credit risk operations, such as guarantees, bonds and trusteeships, but are prohibited from offering other banking services, operating mutual funds or offering portfolio management services. In addition, insurance companies may not conduct brokerage operations for third parties. Peruvian insurance companies are also prohibited from having an ownership interest in other insurance or reinsurance companies of the same class or in private pension funds. 69 Establishment of an Insurance Company Insurance companies must be authorized by the SBS to commence operations. Peruvian law establishes certain minimum capital requirements for insurance and reinsurance companies, which must be satisfied by cash investments in the company. The statutory amounts are expressed in constant value. Solvency Requirements Pursuant to Law 26702, the SBS regulates the solvency margin of Peruvian insurance companies. The solvency margin calculations take into account the amount of premiums written and losses incurred during a specified period prior to the date of the calculation. Insurance companies must also maintain solvency equity, which must be the greater of (i) the solvency margin and (ii) the minimum capital requirement, as established by law. The required amount of solvency equity is recalculated at least quarterly. If an insurance company has outstanding credit risk operations, part of the solvency equity must be set aside for its coverage. Legal Reserve Requirements Peruvian law also requires that all insurance companies establish a legal guarantee reserve for policyholders by setting aside 10% of income before taxes until the reserve reaches at least 35% of paid-in capital. Reserve Requirements Pursuant to Law 26702 and regulations issued by the SBS, Peruvian insurance companies must establish technical reserves. See “—(6) Pacífico Seguros Generales—(ii) Claims and Reserves”. Law 26702 also requires insurance companies to create a reserve for IBNR claims that are reflected as a liability, net of recoveries and reinsurance, in our consolidated financial statements. Reserves for IBNR claims are estimated by using generally accepted actuarial reserving methods. See Note 3(e) to our consolidated financial statements. Finally, Grupo Pacífico is required by the SBS to establish pre-event reserves for risk of catastrophes, which, in accordance with IFRS principles, are not considered in our financial statements. See “—(6) Pacífico Seguros Generales—(ii) Claims and Reserves”. Investment Requirements Pursuant to Law 26702, the total amount of an insurance company’s solvency equity and technical reserves must be permanently supported by diversified assets, which may not be pledged or otherwise encumbered. The investment regulations further state that deposits in and bonds of one financial institution together cannot exceed 10% of the total of an insurer’s solvency equity and technical reserves combined. In general, no more than 20% of an insurance company’s combined solvency equity and technical reserves may be invested in instruments (including stocks and bonds) issued by a company or group of companies. In order for an insurance company to invest in non-Peruvian securities, the securities must be rated by an internationally recognized credit rating company and the asset class must be authorized by Peruvian SBS regulations. Securities owned by insurance companies must be registered in the Public Registry of Securities of Peru or the comparable registry of their respective country. Related Party Transactions Law 26702 generally provides that insurance companies may not extend credit to or guarantee the obligations of employees or members of the board of directors, except for certain home mortgage loans to employees. 70 Ownership Restrictions Law 26702 sets forth the same types of restrictions regarding the ownership and transfer of insurance company shares as it does regarding the ownership and transfer of shares in banks. See “—(11) Supervision and Regulation—(ii) BCP—Overview”. (vii)Prima AFP Prima AFP’s operations are regulated in Peru by the Unified Text of the Private System for the Administration of Funds Act, approved by Supreme Decree No. 054-97-EF. Operations are controlled and supervised by the SBS. In addition, AFPs are under the supervision of the SMV. AFPs must submit reports to the SBS, members and beneficiaries in general, with regard to the administration of pension funds and any information linked to the AFP’s operations. Under Peruvian legislation, AFPs can only have one type of business activity; they can only offer services linked to the administration of pension funds under the category of individual capital accounts. Also, AFPs must pay benefits provided by Law and administer retirement, disability, death benefit and funeral expense risks. AFPs must submit audited financial information, in accordance with SBS regulations. There are certain limitations on the ownership and transfer of AFP shares. SBS authorization is required for an AFP to begin operations. Peruvian law establishes a minimum capital requirement, paid in cash by the shareholders. SBS has put in place many investment limits, which, among others, restrict investments in certain asset classes, economic groups, and issuers. In addition, some of these limits vary according to the risk profile of the fund. Among these limits, the most general are as follows: ·The total amount invested in instruments issued or guaranteed by the Peruvian State cannot exceed 30% of the fund value; ·The total amount invested in instruments issued or guaranteed by BCR cannot exceed 30% of the fund value; ·The total amount jointly invested under the two aforementioned points cannot exceed 40% of the fund value and; ·The total amount invested in instruments issued by the government, financial institutions, and non-financial institutions whose commercial activities are mostly abroad, cannot exceed 50% of the fund value. The Central Bank has set a maximum operating sub-limit at 32%. As mentioned before, the Central Bank can set maximum operating percentages and/or sub-limits to the aforementioned investment limits. SBS requires a guaranteed minimum profitability for funds under management. Part of the guarantee is an obligatory reserve, which must be funded by the AFP. The amount will depend on the instruments in the portfolio, but is, on average, 1% of funds under management. In addition, Peruvian law establishes that companies must set up a legal reserve equivalent to 10% of net income, until the reserve is at least 20% of the capital. Private Pension System Reform: Recent reforms have resulted in the following changes to Peru’s private pension system: 1.Auctions for management of new affiliates: Peru’s Law to Reform the Private Pension System sets forth a new process by which individuals, which are called affiliates, may become affiliated with the SPP. Under the law, auctions are held every 24 months to determine which company will have the exclusive right to manage the accounts of new SPP affiliates for a two year period, the first such period beginning on February 1, 2013 and ending in January 31, 2015. Bid awards will be made to the AFP that offers the lowest administration fees. New affiliates to the SPP are required to affiliate with the AFP that obtains the bid award, and the new affiliates must remain with this fund manager for 24 months. 71 A competitive bidding process took place in September 2012 to determine which company would manage new affiliate accounts during a transitional period from September 2012 through the end of January 2013; Prima AFP won the September auction and managed new accounts during the transitional period. In December 2012, Peru held its first auction to determine who would manage the accounts for the first full two year period. A new participant in the system won the auction, but that participant did not have the operational capacity to manage new affiliate accounts as of February 1, 2013. As a result, Prima AFP continues to manage the accounts of new affiliates until the new company is ready to begin operations. This has allowed Prima AFP to temporarily continue to capture new affiliates, and thereby increase its client base. 2.Changes in the administration fees: Prior to the adoption of the Law to Reform the Private Pension System, pension fund affiliates were charged commissions based on their salaries. Under the Law to Reform the Private Pension System, AFPs will receive a mixed commission for managing the accounts of affiliates. This commission will be calculated based on the monthly remuneration of the affiliates plus a commission on the total funds managed by the AFP for the affiliate. By May 31, 2013, affiliates that are already in the private pension system must choose between (i) continuing to be subject to the fee structure based on remuneration that was in place prior to the adoption of the Law to Reform the Private Pension System; and (ii) changing to the new fee structure (mixed commission). All new affiliates will be subject to the mixed fee structure. The mixed fee structure will be in place for a 10-year transitional period, after which an AFP’s fee will be based sole on its funds under management. These changes in the fee structure of Peru’s pension funds are designed to align the interest of AFPs and their clients. At the end of December 2012, Prima AFP published its new commission’s structure. Affiliates will be able to choose either of the following commission fee structures: i)Commission by flow: 1.60% applied to the affiliates’ monthly remuneration. This commission is currently in effect. ii)Mixed commission: composed of 1.51% commission on the affiliates’ monthly remuneration, plus a 1.90% annual commission, which is applied to the total account balance of the affiliate (as of February 2013 for new affiliates and June 2013 for current clients). Current affiliates must choose between the commission based solely on remuneration and the mixed commission. The deadline for making this choice is May 31, 2013. 3.An auction process will be held to determine which company may offer insurance for survivors, disability and burial costs in a single package for all AFPs via a collective policy. The right to sell the insurance package will be awarded to the insurance company that presents the best economic proposal. 4.The Law to Reform the Private Pension System provides for the creation of capital protection funds. These funds are designed to ensure that monies belonging to persons over the age of 65 maintain value. As a result, capital protection funds will offer stable growth and very low volatility. As of January 2013, capital protection funds were unregulated. 5.Measures are established to expand coverage, including: i)Obligatory affiliation with a pension system for independent workers under the age of 40. ii)Creation of a Social Pension System for employees and owners of micro businesses under the age of 40 who receive monthly income up to 1.5 times Peru’s minimum wage (RMV by its Spanish initials). Under this system, workers will receive a contribution from the state of up to a certain rate or for an amount equivalent to the contributions made by the affiliate. Other changes modified laws governing employers, the management of outside service contracts and the efficiency of the AFPs’ operating process. Noteworthy aspects of these reforms include those that aim to expand coverage and promote operating efficiencies to ensure that benefits are provided to the appropriate stakeholders. 72 (12)Selected Statistical Information In the following tables, we have set forth certain selected statistical information and ratios regarding our business for the periods indicated. You should read the selected statistical information in conjunction with the information included in “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—(A) Operating Results” and the Consolidated Financial Statements (and the notes that accompany the financial statements). The statistical information and discussion and analysis given below for the years 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 reflect our consolidated financial position as well as that of our subsidiaries, as of December 31, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 and our results of operations for 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012. (i)Average Balance Sheets and Income from Interest-Earning Assets The tables below set forth selected statistical information based on our average balance sheets prepared on a consolidated basis. Except as otherwise indicated, we have classified average balances by currency (Nuevos Soles or foreign currency, primarily U.S. Dollars) rather than by the domestic or international nature of the balance. In addition, except where noted, the average balances are based on the quarterly ending balances in each year. Any of these quarter-end balances that were denominated in Nuevos Soles have been converted into U.S. Dollars using the applicable SBS exchange rate as of the date of such balance. Our management does not believe that the stated averages present trends materially different from those that would be presented by daily averages. 73 Average Balance Sheets Assets, Interest Earned and Average Interest Rates Year ended December 31, 2010 2011 2012 ASSETS: Average Balance Interest Earned Nominal Avg. Rate Average Balance Interest Earned Nominal Avg. Rate Average Balance Interest Earned Nominal Avg. Rate (U.S. Dollars in thousands, except percentages) Interest-earning assets: Deposits in Central Bank Nuevos Soles US$1,056,389 US$25,351 2.40% US$962,291 US$33,041 3.43% US$1,487,104 US$28,351 1.91% Foreign Currency 2,147,576 3,319 0.15 2,804,304 3,277 0.12 3,180,717 3,576 0.11 Total 3,203,965 28,670 0.89 3,766,595 36,318 0.96 4,667,821 31,927 0.68 Deposits in other banks Nuevos Soles 54,525 1,135 2.08 80,058 4,004 5.00 95,376 4,470 4.69 Foreign Currency 855,555 2,532 0.30 894,865 2,564 0.29 800,635 4,447 0.56 Total 910,080 3,667 0.40 974,923 6,568 0.67 896,011 8,917 1.00 Investment securities Nuevos Soles 2,223,416 64,732 2.91 2,607,309 126,683 4.86 3,933,321 172,486 4.39 Foreign Currency 3,314,529 132,063 3.98 2,853,192 101,026 3.54 3,152,744 102,300 3.24 Total 5,537,945 196,795 3.55 5,460,501 227,709 4.17 7,086,065 274,786 3.88 Total loans (1) Nuevos Soles 4,957,672 698,995 14.10 6,325,230 1,069,628 16.91 8,031,968 1,342,190 16.71 Foreign Currency 7,967,501 519,733 6.52 9,749,989 463,723 4.76 11,327,777 606,282 5.35 Total 12,925,173 1,218,728 9.43 16,075,219 1,533,351 9.54 19,359,745 1,948,472 10.06 Total dividend-earning assets Nuevos Soles 228,216 6,810 2.98 254,027 8,347 3.29 288,259 8,889 3.08 Foreign Currency 208,061 4,805 2.31 256,661 6,974 2.72 283,773 7,465 2.63 Total 436,277 11,615 2.66 510,688 15,321 3.00 572,032 16,354 2.86 Total interest-earning assets Nuevos Soles 8,520,218 797,023 9.35 10,228,915 1,241,703 12.14 13,836,028 1,556,386 11.25 Foreign Currency 14,493,222 662,452 4.57 16,559,011 577,564 3.49 18,745,646 724,070 3.86 Total 23,013,440 1,459,475 6.34 26,787,926 1,819,267 6.79 32,581,674 2,280,456 7.00 Noninterest-earning assets: Cash and due from banks Nuevos Soles 362,846 478,035 647,822 Foreign Currency 317,649 368,180 328,425 Total 680,495 846,215 976,247 Reserves for loan losses Nuevos Soles (211,053) (257,621) (364,017) Foreign Currency (184,307) (212,862) (263,098) Total (395,360) (470,483) (627,115) Premises and equipment Nuevos Soles 338,817 383,131 487,679 Foreign Currency 15,518 15,112 44,779 Total 354,335 398,243 532,458 Other non-interest-earning assets and gain from derivatives instruments and other interest income Nuevos Soles 1,100,346 3,531 1,130,516 14,993 1,038,642 4,207 Foreign Currency 669,910 8,702 755,903 3,504 1,386,872 25,778 Total 1,770,256 12,233 1,886,419 18,497 2,425,514 29,985 Total non-interest-earning assets Nuevos Soles 1,590,956 3,531 1,734,061 14,993 1,810,126 4,207 Foreign Currency 818,770 8,702 926,333 3,504 1,496,978 25,778 Total 2,409,726 12,233 2,660,394 18,497 3,307,104 29,985 Total average assets Nuevos Soles 10,111,174 800,554 7.92 11,962,976 1,256,696 10.5 15,646,154 1,560,593 9.97 Foreign Currency 15,311,992 671,154 4.38 17,485,344 581,068 3.32 20,242,624 749,848 3.7 Total 25,423,166 1,471,708 5.79 29,448,320 1,837,764 6.24 35,888,778 2,310,441 6.44 (1)Figures for total loans include past-due loans, but do not include accrued but unpaid interest on such past-due loans in the year in which such loans became past due. Accrued interest is included. 74 Average Balance Sheets Liabilities, Interest Paid and Average Interest Rates Year ended December 31, 2010 2011 2012 LIABILITIES Average Balance Interest Paid Nominal Avg. Rate Average Balance Interest Paid Nominal Avg. Rate Average Balance Interest Paid Nominal Avg. Rate (U.S. Dollars in thousands, except percentages) Interest-bearing liabilities: Demand deposits Nuevos Soles (1) US$ 2,251,493 US$ 9,140 0.41 % US$ 2,503,311 US$ 11,586 0.46 % US$ 3,038,002 US$ 14,760 0.49 % Foreign Currency (1) 3,018,009 4,510 0.15 3,773,232 5,544 0.15 4,555,943 7,142 0.16 Total 5,269,502 13,650 0.26 6,276,543 17,130 0.27 7,593,945 21,902 0.29 Savings deposits Nuevos Soles (1) 1,719,869 4,086 0.24 2,271,029 8,079 0.36 2,980,838 15,430 0.52 Foreign Currency (1) 2,104,084 4,733 0.22 2,367,401 5,462 0.23 2,533,566 6,054 0.24 Total 3,823,953 8,820 0.23 4,638,430 13,541 0.29 5,514,404 21,485 0.39 Time deposits Nuevos Soles (1) 2,890,800 69,275 2.40 3,361,966 136,932 4.07 4,710,953 184,820 3.92 Foreign Currency (1) 3,980,428 84,655 2.13 3,806,928 74,400 1.95 4,031,361 86,925 2.16 Total 6,871,228 153,929 2.24 7,168,894 211,332 2.95 8,742,314 271,745 3.11 Due to banks and correspondents Nuevos Soles 201,360 11,973 5.95 365,769 49,295 13.48 587,129 54,243 9.24 Foreign Currency 1,632,526 31,559 1.93 1,640,407 15,074 0.92 1,338,586 28,533 2.13 Total 1,833,886 43,532 2.37 2,006,176 64,369 3.21 1,925,715 82,776 4.30 Bonds Nuevos Soles 561,228 34,451 6.14 383,271 24,479 6.39 533,682 33,643 6.30 Foreign Currency 1,995,499 89,860 4.50 3,234,863 162,264 5.02 3,860,167 208,623 5.40 Total 2,556,727 124,311 4.86 3,618,134 186,743 5.16 4,393,849 242,266 5.51 Total interest-bearing liabilities Nuevos Soles 7,624,750 128,925 1.69 8,885,346 230,370 2.59 11,850,604 302,896 2.56 Foreign Currency 12,730,546 215,317 1.69 14,822,831 262,744 1.77 16,319,623 337,278 2.07 Total 20,355,296 344,242 1.69 23,708,177 493,115 2.08 28,170,227 640,173 2.27 Non-interest-bearing liabilities and net equity: Other liabilities and loss from derivatives instruments and other interest expenses Nuevos Soles 805,690 1,859 847,862 2,035 955,441 2,507 Foreign Currency 1,416,339 68,020 1,740,041 36,450 2,856,381 50,966 Total 2,222,029 69,879 2,587,903 38,485 3,811,822 53,473 Equity attributable to Credicorp equity holders Nuevos Soles Foreign Currency 2,683,778 3,092,282 3,803,381 Total 2,683,778 3,092,282 3,803,381 Minority Interest Nuevos Soles Foreign Currency 162,063 59,958 103,348 Total 162,063 59,958 103,348 Total non-interest-bearing liabilities and equity Nuevos Soles 805,690 1,859 847,862 2,035 955,441 2,507 Foreign Currency 4,262,180 68,020 4,892,281 36,450 6,763,110 50,966 Total 5,067,870 69,879 5,740,143 38,485 7,718,551 53,473 Total average liabilities and equity Nuevos Soles 8,430,440 130,784 1.55 9,733,208 232,405 2.39 12,806,045 305,403 2.38 Foreign Currency 16,992,726 283,337 1.67 19,715,112 299,194 1.52 23,082,733 388,244 1.68 Total 25,423,166 414,121 1.63 29,448,320 531,600 1.81 35,888,778 693,646 1.93 (1)Includes the amount paid - for the deposit insurance fund. Changes in Net Interest Income and Expense: Volume and Rate Analysis 2011/2010 2012/2011 Increase/(Decrease) due to changes in: Increase/(Decrease) due to changes in: Volume Rate Net Change Volume Rate Net Change (U.S. Dollars in thousands) Interest Income: Interest-earning deposits in Central Bank Nuevos Soles (2,745) 10,435 7,690 14,013 (18,703) (4,690) Foreign Currency 891 (933) (42) 432 (133) 299 Total (1,854) 9,502 7,648 14,444 (18,835) (4,391) Deposits in other banks Nuevos Soles 904 1,965 2,869 742 (276) 466 Foreign Currency 114 (82) 32 (397) 2,280 1,883 Total 1,018 1,883 2,901 345 2,004 2,349 Investment securities Nuevos Soles 14,915 47,036 61,951 61,288 (15,485) 45,803 Foreign Currency (17,358) (13,679) (31,037) 10,163 (8,889) 1,274 Total (2,443) 33,357 30,914 71,452 (24,375) 47,077 Total loans(1) Nuevos Soles 212,038 158,595 370,633 286,912 (14,350) 272,562 Foreign Currency 100,526 (156,536) (56,010) 79,744 62,815 142,559 Total 312,564 2,059 314,623 366,656 48,465 415,121 Total dividend-earning assets Nuevos Soles 809 728 1,537 1,090 (548) 542 Foreign Currency 1,221 948 2,169 725 (234) 491 Total 2,030 1,676 3,706 1,815 (782) 1,033 Total interest-earning assets Nuevos Soles 183,631 261,049 444,680 421,815 (107,132) 314,683 Foreign Currency 83,238 (168,126) (84,888) 80,364 66,142 146,506 Total 266,869 92,923 359,792 502,179 (40,990) 461,189 Interest Expense: Demand deposits Nuevos Soles 1,094 1,352 2,446 2,536 638 3,174 Foreign Currency 1,119 (85) 1,034 1,189 409 1,597 Total 2,213 1,267 3,480 3,725 1,047 4,771 Savings deposits Nuevos Soles 1,635 2,357 3,992 3,100 4,252 7,351 Foreign Currency 600 129 729 390 202 593 Total 2,235 2,486 4,721 3,490 4,454 7,944 Time deposits Nuevos Soles 15,241 52,417 67,658 53,934 (6,046) 47,888 Foreign Currency (3,540) (6,714) (10,254) 4,613 7,912 12,525 Total 11,701 45,703 57,403 58,546 1,867 60,413 Due to banks and correspondents and issued bonds Nuevos Soles 15,967 21,355 37,322 25,142 (20,194) 4,948 Foreign Currency 112 (16,597) (16,485) (4,604) 18,063 13,459 Total 16,079 4,758 20,837 20,538 (2,131) 18,407 Bonds Nuevos Soles (11,145) 1,173 (9,972) 9,544 (380) 9,164 Foreign Currency 58,989 13,415 72,404 32,580 13,779 46,359 Total 47,844 14,588 62,432 42,124 13,399 55,523 Total interest-bearing liabilities Nuevos Soles 26,999 74,447 101,446 76,335 (3,810) 72,525 Foreign Currency 36,237 11,190 47,427 28,733 45,800 74,533 Total 63,236 85,637 148,873 105,068 41,990 147,058 75 (1)Figures for total loans include past-due loans, but do not include accrued but unpaid interest on such past-due loans in the year in which such loans became past due. Accrued interest is included. Interest-Earning Assets, Net Interest Margin and Yield Spread The following table shows for each of the periods indicated, by currency, the levels of average interest-earning assets, net interest income, gross yield, net interest margin and yield spread, all on a nominal basis: Year ended December 31, 2010 2011 2012 (U.S. Dollars in thousands, except percentages) Average interest-earning assets Nuevos Soles 8,520,218 10,228,915 13,836,028 Foreign Currency 14,493,222 16,559,011 18,745,646 Total 23,013,440 26,787,926 32,581,674 Net interest income Nuevos Soles 668,098 1,011,333 1,253,490 Foreign Currency 447,135 314,820 386,792 Total 1,115,233 1,326,153 1,640,282 Gross yield (1) Nuevos Soles 9.35% 12.14% 11.25% Foreign Currency 4.57% 3.49% 3.86% Weighted-average rate 6.34% 6.79% 7.00% Net interest margin (2) Nuevos Soles 7.84% 9.89% 9.06% Foreign Currency 3.09% 1.90% 2.06% Weighted-average rate 4.85% 4.95% 5.03% Yield spread (3) Nuevos Soles 7.66% 9.55% 8.69% Foreign Currency 2.88% 1.72% 1.80% Weighted-average rate 4.65% 4.71% 4.73% (1) Gross yield is interest income divided by average interest-earning assets. (2) Net interest margin represents net interest income divided by average interest-earning assets. (3) Yield spread, on a nominal basis, represents the difference between gross yield on average interest-earning assets and average cost of interest-bearing liabilities. Interest-Earning Deposits With Other Banks The following table shows the short-term funds deposited with other banks. These deposits are denominated by currency as of the dates indicated. Deposits held in countries other than Peru are denominated in several currencies; however, the majority of these deposits are denominated in U.S. Dollars. All currencies were converted to U.S. Dollars using the applicable SBS exchange rate as of the dates indicated. Year ended December 31, 2010 2011 2012 (U.S. Dollars in thousands) Nuevo Sol-denominated: Peruvian Central Bank US$ 3,649,809 US$ 825,975 US$ 2,105,972 Commercial banks 82,970 93,389 30,996 Total Nuevo Sol-denominated US$ 3,732,779 US$ 919,364 US$ 2,136,968 Foreign Currency-denominated: Peruvian Central Bank (U.S. Dollars) US$ 2,094,251 US$ 2,958,540 US$ 4,099,640 Commercial banks (U.S. Dollars) 1,092,662 530,327 463,951 Other Commercial banks (other currencies) 346 63 1,589 Total Foreign Currency-denominated US$ 3,187,259 US$ 3,488,930 US$ 4,565,180 Total US$ 6,920,038 US$ 4,408,294 US$ 6,702,148 76 (ii) Investment Portfolio The following table shows the fair value of our trading, available-for-sale and held to maturity investment securities without interest designated by type of security at the dates indicated (see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements): On December 31, 2010 2011 2012 (U.S. Dollars in thousands) Nuevo Sol-denominated: Peruvian government bonds US$ 299,043 US$ 473,868 US$ 481,784 Equity securities 256,931 251,032 325,485 Bonds 231,514 232,330 380,549 Peruvian Central Bank certif. notes 314,999 2,059,780 2,965,313 Other investments 158,241 180,258 282,593 Total Nuevo Sol-denominated 1,260,728 3,197,268 4,435,724 Foreign Currency-denominated: Equity securities US$ 285,270 US$ 228,527 US$ 339,018 Bonds 1,609,443 1,795,614 2,004,864 Peruvian Government Bonds 252,043 210,776 264,743 Peruvian Central Bank certif. notes 48,851 - - Other investment 387,304 517,913 748,407 Total Foreign Currency-denominated US$ 2,582,911 US$ 2,752,830 US$ 3,357,032 Total securities holdings: US$ 3,843,639 US$ 5,950,098 US$ 7,792,756 The allowance for decline in value of marketable securities is debited from the value of each individual security. The weighted-average yield on our Nuevo Sol-denominated interest-earning investment securities was 2.9% in 2010, 4.9% in 2011 and 4.4% in 2012. The weighted-average yield on our foreign currency-denominated portfolio was 4.0% in 2010, 3.5% in 2011 and 3.2% in 2012. The total weighted-average yield of our investment securities was 3.6% in 2010, 4.2% in 2011 and 3.9% in 2012. The weighted-average yield on our Nuevo Sol-denominated dividend-earning assets was 3.0% in 2010, 3.3% in 2011 and 3.1% in 2012. The weighted-average yield on our foreign currency-denominated portfolio was 2.3% in 2010, 2.7% in 2011 and 2.6% in 2012. The total weighted-average yield of our dividend-earning assets was 2.7% in 2010, 3.0% in 2011 and 2.9% in 2012. As of December 31, 2012, the investments available for sale and held to maturity pledged as collateral amounted to US$760.5 million (see note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). The following table shows the maturities of our trading, available-for-sale and held to maturity investment securities designated by type of security on December 31, 2012: Within 1 year After 1 year but within 3 years Maturing After 3 years but within 5 years Maturing After 5 years but within 10 years After 10 years Total (U.S. Dollars in thousands) Nuevo Sol-denominated: Peruvian government bonds US$ 8,323 US$ 33,933 US$ 10,821 US$ 208,537 US$ 220,170 US$ 481,784 Equity securities (1) 325,485 - - - - 325,485 Bonds and debentures 34,276 41,134 48,982 111,991 144,166 380,549 Peruvian Central Bank certif. notes 2,519,447 445,866 - - - 2,965,313 Other investments 186,789 9,457 3,108 5,834 77,405 282,593 Total Nuevo Sol-denominated US$ 3,074,320 US$ 530,390 US$ 62,911 US$ 326,362 US$ 441,741 US$ 4,435,724 Foreign Currency-denominated: Peruvian government bonds - 48,302 28,935 43,944 143,562 264,743 Equity securities (1) 339,018 - - - - 339,018 Bonds 253,933 380,366 344,673 490,320 535,572 2,004,864 Peruvian Central Bank certif. notes - - - - - - Other investments 367,667 50,847 21,210 126,764 181,919 748,407 Total Foreign Currency-denominated US$ 960,618 US$ 479,515 US$ 394,818 US$ 661,028 US$ 861,053 US$ 3,357,032 Total securities holdings: US$ 4,034,938 US$ 1,009,905 US$ 457,729 US$ 987,390 US$ 1,302,794 US$ 7,792,756 Weighted-average yield 3.22 % (1) Equity securities in our account are categorized as maturing within one year. 77 The maturities of our investment securities classified by trading and available-for-sale, as of December 31, 2012, are described in “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” Pursuant to the criteria described below, our management has determined that the unrealized losses as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 were temporary and intends to hold each investment for a sufficient period of time to allow for a potential recovery in fair value. This holding period will last until the earlier of the investment’s recovery or maturity. For equity investments (shares), management considers the following criteria to determine whether a loss is temporary: •The length of time and the extent to which fair value has been below cost; •The severity of the impairment; •The cause of the impairment and the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer; and •Activity in the market of the issuer which may indicate adverse credit conditions. For debt investments (fixed maturity), management considers the following criteria to determine whether a loss is temporary: •Management assesses the probability that the company will receive all amounts due (principal and interest) under the contract of the security. It considers a number of factors in identifying a credit-impaired security, including: (i) the nature of the security and the underlying collateral, (ii) the amount of subordination or credit enhancement supporting the security, (iii) the published credit rating and (iv) other analyses of the probable cash flows from the security. If recovery of all amounts due is not likely, management may determine that credit impairment exists and record unrealized losses in our consolidated income statement. The unrealized loss recorded in income represents the security’s decline in fair value, which includes the decline due to forecasted cash flow shortfalls as well as widening market spread. •For a security with an unrealized loss not identified as a credit impairment, management determines whether it is desirable to hold the security for a period of time to allow for a potential recovery in the security’s amortized cost. Management estimates a security’s forecasted recovery period using current estimates of volatility in market interest rates (including liquidity and risk premiums). Management considers a number of factors to determine whether to hold an investment, including (i) a quantitative estimate of the expected recovery period (which may extend to maturity), (ii) the severity of the impairment and (iii) its strategy with respect to the security or portfolio. If management determines it is not desirable to hold the security for a sufficient period of time to allow for a potential recovery in the security’s amortized cost, we record the unrealized loss in our consolidated income statement. (iii)Loan Portfolio Loans by Type of Loan The following table shows our loans by type of loan, at the dates indicated: On December 31, 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (U.S. Dollars in thousands) Loans US$8,179,453 US$8,986,884 US$11,142,038 US$13,793,797 US$16,905,278 Leasing transactions 1,792,827 1,997,562 2,359,236 2,786,129 3,487,351 Discounted notes 368,648 349,126 477,709 552,233 557,328 Factoring 124,537 163,443 250,974 254,516 326,497 Advances and overdrafts 102,687 47,147 104,495 25,130 55,881 Refinanced loans 55,179 59,459 76,707 96,031 142,207 Past-due loans 82,867 184,567 209,908 259,050 372,431 Unearned interest (249,914) (282,869) (343,003) (446,508) (535,045) Total loans, net of unearned income and without accrued interest US$10,456,284 US$11,505,319 US$14,278,064 US$17,320,378 US$21,311,928 Total past-due loans amounts (82,867) (184,567) (209,908) (259,050) (372,431) Total performing loans US$10,373,417 US$11,320,752 US$14,068,156 US$17,061,328 US$20,939,497 78 The loan portfolio categories set forth in the table above are based on SBS regulations, which apply to loans generated by BCP and ASHC. Pursuant to SBS guidelines, we categorize loans as follows: •Loans: Basic term loans documented by promissory notes and other extensions of credit, such as mortgage loans, credit cards and other consumer loans in various forms, including trade finance loans to importers and exporters on specialized terms adapted to the needs of the international trade transaction. •Leasing Transactions: Transactions that involve our acquisition of an asset and the financial leasing of that asset to a client. •Discounted Notes: Loans discounted at the outset (the client signs a promissory note or other evidence of indebtedness for the principal amount payable at a future date). Discounted loans also include discounting of drafts, where we make a loan supported by a draft signed by one party and discounted by another party, with recourse to both parties. •Factoring: The sale of title to a company’s accounts receivables to a bank (or financial company). The receivables are sold without recourse, and the bank cannot recover from the seller in the event that the accounts are uncollectible. Under factoring loans, the seller receives funds from the bank prior to the average maturity date based on the invoice amount of the receivable, less cash discounts and allowances for estimated claims and returns, among other items. •Advances and Overdrafts: Extensions of credit to clients by way of an overdraft facility in the client’s checking account. This category also includes secured short-term advances. •Refinanced Loans: Loans that were refinanced because the client was unable to pay at maturity. A loan is categorized as a refinanced loan when a debtor is experiencing payment problems, unless the debtor is current on all interest payments and pays down at least 20% of the principal amount of the original loan. We have distinguished a sub-group titled “Restructured Loans,” which is defined as loans extended under the bankruptcy protection procedures established in the Equity Restructuring Law. •Past-Due Loans: Includes overdue loans. See “—Past-Due Loan Portfolio” for further detail. Loans by Economic Activity The following table shows our total loan portfolio composition, net of unearned interest, based on the borrower’s principal economic activity: At December 31, 2008 2009 2010 (U.S. Dollars in thousands, except percentages) Amount % Total Amount % Total Amount % Total Economic Activity Manufacturing US$ 2,535,326 24.25 % US$ 2,557,847 22.23 % US$ 3,003,465 21.04 % Consumer Loans (1) 2,540,530 24.30 3,224,292 28.03 3,805,813 26.65 Small Business 606,168 5.80 739,157 6.42 953,394 6.68 Commerce 1,344,921 12.86 1,330,023 11.56 1,931,441 13.53 Realty Business and Leasing Services 488,202 4.67 489,614 4.26 712,330 4.99 Mining 675,460 6.46 692,579 6.02 893,145 6.26 Communication, Storage and Transportation 515,412 4.93 559,025 4.86 720,749 5.05 Electricity, Gas and Water 546,014 5.22 782,289 6.80 969,437 6.79 Agriculture 228,623 2.19 271,912 2.36 293,685 2.06 Fishing 77,060 0.74 121,162 1.05 134,811 0.94 Financial Services 439,234 4.20 175,071 1.52 252,869 1.77 Education, Health and Other Services 128,527 1.23 156,496 1.36 177,206 1.24 Construction 229,667 2.20 175,508 1.53 132,517 0.93 Others (2) 351,054 3.36 513,213 4.46 640,205 4.48 Sub total 10,706,198 102.39 11,788,188 102.46 14,621,067 102.40 Unearned interest (249,914 ) (2.39 ) US$ (282,869 ) (2.46 )% US$ (343,003 ) (2.40 )% Total US$ 10,456,284 100.00 % US$ 11,505,319 100.00 % 14,278,064 100.00 % 79 At December 31, 2011 2012 (U.S. Dollars in thousands, except percentages) Amount % Total Amount % Total Economic Activity Manufacturing US$ 3,319,821 19.17 % US$ 3,579,385 16.80 % Consumer Loans (1) 5,003,353 28.88 6,452,922 30.27 Small Business 1,129,119 6.52 1,490,879 7.00 Commerce 2,503,810 14.46 3,108,662 14.59 Realty Business and Leasing Services 968,952 5.59 1,268,692 5.95 Mining 855,774 4.94 753,668 3.54 Communication, Storage and Transportation 713,947 4.12 733,939 3.44 Electricity, Gas and Water 1,114,788 6.44 1,365,188 6.41 Agriculture 329,408 1.90 451,309 2.12 Fishing 164,741 0.95 201,357 0.94 Financial Services 297,612 1.72 404,080 1.90 Education, Health and Other Services 226,055 1.31 326,019 1.53 Construction 255,555 1.48 490,470 2.30 Others (2) 883,951 5.10 1,220,403 5.73 Sub total 17,766,886 102,58 21,846,973 102,51 Unearned interest (446,508 ) (2.58 ) (535,045 ) (2.51 ) Total US$ 17,320,378 100.00 % US$ 21,311,928 100.00 % (1)These amounts comprise: 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (U.S. Dollars in thousands) Personal Loans 666,661 976,499 1,147,274 1,455,200 1,929,476 Mortgage Loans 1,484,495 1,752,460 2,058,403 2,723,830 3,487,648 Credit card 389,374 495,333 600,136 824,323 1,035,798 2,540,530 3,224,292 3,805,813 5,003,353 6,452,922 (2)Includes community services, hotels and restaurants and other sector. As of December 31, 2012, 74.7% of the loan portfolio was concentrated in Lima, 89.3% was concentrated in Peru, and 4.1% of the loan portfolio was concentrated in Bolivia. Concentrations of Loan Portfolio and Lending Limits As of December 31, 2012, loans and other contingent credits to our 20 largest customers (considered economic groups),equaled US$4,115.3 million, and represented 18.84% of our total loan portfolio. See “—(11) Supervision and Regulation—(ii) BCP—Lending Activities” for the definition of “economic group.” Our total loans and other contingent credits outstanding to each of these customers ranged from US$344.7 million to US$111.6 million, including 18 customers with over US$139.4 million. Total loans and other contingent credits outstanding to our 20 largest customers were ranked in the following risk categories as of December 31, 2012: Class A (normal)—98.8%; Class B (potential problems)—1.2%; Class C (substandard)—0%; Class D (doubtful)—0%; and Class E (loss)—__0%. See “—Classification of the Loan Portfolio.” BCP’s loans to a single borrower are subject to lending limits imposed by Law 26702. See “—(11) Supervision and Regulation—(ii) BCP—Lending Activities.” The lending limits depend on the nature of the borrower involved and the type of collateral received. The sum of BCP’s loans to and deposits in either another Peruvian universal bank or Peruvian financial institution, plus any guarantees of third party performance received by BCP from such institution, may not exceed 30% of BCP’s regulatory capital (as defined by the SBS). The sum of BCP’s loans to and deposits in non-Peruvian financial institutions, plus any guarantees of third party performance received by BCP from such institutions, are limited to 5%, 10% or 30% of BCP’s regulatory capital, depending upon the level of government supervision of the institution and whether the institution is recognized by the Central Bank as an international bank of prime credit quality. The limits on lending to non-Peruvian financial institutions increases to 50% of BCP’s regulatory capital if the amount by which such loans exceed the 5%, 10% or 30% limits is backed by certain letters of credit. 80 BCP’s loans to directors and employees and their relatives have a global limit of 7% of regulatory capital and an individual limit of 5% of such global limit. Loans to non-Peruvian individuals or companies that are not financial institutions have a limit of 5% of BCP’s regulatory capital. However, this limit increases to 10% if the additional 5% is guaranteed by a mortgage or certain publicly-traded securities. The limit rises to 30% if the additional amount is guaranteed by certain banks or by cash deposits in BCP. Lending on an unsecured basis to individuals or companies residing in Peru that are not financial institutions is limited to 10% of BCP’s regulatory capital. This limit rises to 15% if the additional 5% is guaranteed by a mortgage, certain securities, equipment or other collateral, and to 20% if the additional amount is either backed by certain debt instruments guaranteed by other local banks or a foreign bank determined by the Central Bank to be of prime credit quality, or by other highly liquid securities at market value. The single borrower lending limit for loans backed by a cash deposit at BCP or by debt obligations of the Central Bank is 30% of BCP’s regulatory capital. With an unconsolidated regulatory capital of S/.8,929.2 million (US$3,501.7 million) on December 31, 2012, BCP’s legal lending limits varied from S/.892.9 million (US$350.1 million) to S/.4,464.6 million (US$1,750.9 million). Our consolidated lending limits, based on our regulatory capital on a consolidated basis of US$3,975.6 million on December 31, 2012, ranged from US$397.6 million to US$1,987.8 million. As of December 31, 2012, BCP was in compliance with the lending limits of Law 26702. As of December 31, 2012, we complied with the applicable legal lending limits in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. These limits are calculated quarterly based upon our consolidated equity plus reserves for impaired loans not specifically identified at quarter-end. We have also set internal lending limits, which are more restrictive than those imposed by law. A limited number of exceptions to our internal limits have been authorized by our board of directors based on the credit quality of the borrower, the term of the loan, and the amount and quality of collateral provided. We may, in appropriate and limited circumstances, increase or choose to exceed these internal limits as long as our credit exposure does not exceed the legal lending limits. We may experience an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations if (i) customers to which we have significant credit exposure are not able to satisfy their obligations to us, and any related collateral is not sufficient to cover these obligations, or (ii) a reclassification of one or more of these loans or other contingent credits results in an increase in provisions for loan losses. Loan Portfolio Denomination The following table presents our Nuevo Sol and foreign currency-denominated loan portfolio at the dates indicated: At December 31, 2008 2009 2010 (U.S. Dollars in thousands, except percentages) Total loan portfolio: Nuevo Sol-denominated US$3,351,720 32.05% US$4,385,965 38.12% US$5,415,352 37.93% Foreign Currency-denominated 7,104,564 67.95% 7,119,354 61.88% 8,862,712 62.07% Total loans (1) US$10,456,284 100.00% US$11,505,319 100.00% US$14,278,064 100.00% At December 31, 2011 2012 (U.S. Dollars in thousands, except percentages) Total loan portfolio: Nuevo Sol-denominated US$6,982,086 40.31% US$9,054,734 42.49% Foreign Currency-denominated 10,338,292 59.69% 12,257,194 57.51% Total loans (1) US$17,320,378 100.00% US$21,311,928 100.00% (1)Net of unearned interest and without accrued interest. 81 Maturity Composition of the Performing Loan Portfolio The following table sets forth an analysis of our performing loan portfolio on December 31, 2012, by type and by time remaining to maturity. Loans are stated before deduction of the reserves for loan losses. Maturing Amount at December 31, 2012 Within 3 months After 3 months but within 12 months After 1 year but within 3 years After 3 years but within 5 years After 5 years (U.S. Dollars in thousands, except percentages) Loans US$16,905,277 US$3,139,152 US$3,177,597 US$4,092,588 US$2,287,472 US$4,208,468 Leasing transactions 3,487,351 611,839 1,440,352 641,844 470,746 322,570 Discounted notes 557,329 515,294 39,493 2,506 36 - Refinanced loans 142,206 45,022 24,821 24,979 20,080 27,304 Factoring 326,497 326,417 80 - - - Advances and overdrafts 55,882 55,881 - - - - Total US$21,474,542 US$4,693,606 US$4,682,343 US$4,761,917 US$2,778,334 US$4,558,342 Past due Loans 372,431 Unearned interest (535,045) Total Loans (1) US$21,311,928 % of total performing loan portfolio 100.00% 21.86% 21.80% 22.17% 12.94% 21.23% (1)Net of unearned interest and without accrued interest. Interest Rate Sensitivity of the Loan Portfolio The following table sets forth the interest rate sensitivity of our loan portfolio on December 31, 2012, by currency and by the time remaining to maturity over one year: Amount at December 31, 2012 Maturing After 1 year (U.S. Dollars in thousands) Variable Rate Nuevo Sol-denominated US$290,825 US$276,138 Foreign Currency-denominated 3,053,021 1,311,103 Total 3,343,846 1,587,241 Fixed Rate (2) Nuevo Sol-denominated 8,763,909 5,776,350 Foreign Currency-denominated 9,204,173 4,951,303 Total 17,968,082 10,727,653 Total (1) US$21,311,928 US$12,314,894 (1) Net of unearned interest and without accrued interest. (2) Most of the financial products with fixed rates can be switched to variable rates according to market conditions as specified on the contracts with clients. 82 Classification of the Loan Portfolio We classify BCP’s loan portfolio (which includes the loan portfolio of BCP Bolivia, Edyficar and Solucion EAH) and ASB’s loan portfolio in accordance with internal practices. According to these criteria, all loans and other credits are classified into one of four categories based upon the purpose of the loan. These categories are commercial, micro-business, consumer and residential mortgage. Commercial loans are generally those that finance the production and sale of goods and services, including commercial leases, as well as credit card debt on cards held by business entities. Micro-business loans, which are exclusively targeted for the production and sale of goods and services, are made to individuals or companies with no more than S/.300,000 in total loans received from the financial system (excluding mortgage loans). Consumer loans are generally loans granted to individuals, including credit card transactions, overdrafts on personal demand deposit accounts, leases, and financing goods or services not related to a business activity. Residential mortgage loans are all loans to individuals for the purchase, construction, remodeling, subdivision or improvement of the individual’s home, in each case backed by a mortgage. Mortgage loans made to directors and employees of a company are also considered residential mortgage loans. Mortgage-backed loans are considered commercial loans. The classification of the loan determines the amount to reserve should the borrower fail to make payments as they become due. The following table sets forth our loan portfolio by class at the date indicated. At December 31, 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (U.S. Dollars in thousands) (1) Commercial loans (which includes micro-business) US$7,808,671 US$8,283,790 US$10,417,764 US$12,360,362 US$14,861,164 Consumer loans 1,162,399 1,467,793 1,715,207 2,234,871 2,965,277 Residential mortgage loans 1,485,214 1,753,736 2,145,093 2,725,145 3,485,487 Total loans US$10,456,284 US$11,505,319 US$14,278,064 US$17,320,378 US$21,311,928 (1)Net of unearned interest and without accrued interest. We employ a range of policies and practices to mitigate credit risk. Our most traditional practice is taking security for fund advances. We implement guidelines on the acceptability of specific classes of collateral or credit risk mitigation. The principal collateral types for loans and advances are mortgages over residential properties, liens over business assets (such as premises, inventory and accounts receivable), and liens over financial instruments (such as debt securities and equities). Long term finance and lending to corporate entities are generally secured, while revolving individual credit facilities are generally unsecured. In order to minimize credit loss, we seek additional collateral as soon as impairment indicators become apparent. We determine the appropriate collateral to hold as security for financial assets (other than loans) according to the nature of the instrument. Debt securities, treasury and other eligible bills are generally unsecured, with the exception of asset-backed securities and other similar instruments, which are secured by portfolios of financial instruments. Our management monitors the market value of collateral, requests additional collateral in accordance with the underlying agreement, and monitors the market value of the additional collateral obtained during its review of the allowance for impairment losses. Our policy is to dispose of repossessed properties in an orderly manner. We use the proceeds to reduce or repay the outstanding claim. In general, we do not use repossessed properties for our own business. We classify all loans into one of five categories depending upon each loan’s degree of risk of non-payment. We review our loan portfolio on a continuing basis. We classify our loans based upon risk of nonpayment by assessing the following factors: (i) the payment history of the particular loans, (ii) the history of our dealings with the borrower, (iii) the borrower’s management, (iv) the borrower’s operating history, (v) the borrower’s repayment capability, (vi) the borrower’s availability of funds, (vii) the status of any collateral or guarantee, (viii) the borrower’s financial statements, (iv) the general risk of the sector in which the borrower operates, (x) the borrower’s risk classification made by other financial institutions and (xi) other relevant factors. The classification of the loan determines the amount of the required loan loss provision. We classify our loan portfolio into one of five risk categories, depending upon the degree of risk of non-payment of each debtor. These categories are: (i) normal, (ii) potential problems, (iii) substandard, (iv) doubtful and (v) loss. The categories have the following characteristics: Normal (Class A): Debtors with commercial loans in this category have complied on a timely basis with their obligations under the loan. At the time of evaluation, there is no reason to doubt the debtor’s ability to repay interest and principal on the agreed dates, and there is no reason to believe that the status will change before the next evaluation. Before we place a loan in Class A, we must have a clear understanding of the use of the funds and the origin of the cash flows to be used by the debtor to repay the loan. Consumer loans are categorized as Class A when payments are current or up to eight days past due. Residential mortgage loans are categorized as Class A when payments are current or up to 30 days past due. 83 Potential problems (Class B): Debtors with commercial loans in this category demonstrate certain deficiencies at the time of evaluation, which, if not corrected in a timely manner, imply risks regarding recovery of the loan. Common characteristics of loans or credits in this category include: (i) delays in loan payments which are promptly covered, (ii) a general lack of information required to analyze the credit, (iii) out-of-date financial information, (iv) temporary economic or financial imbalances on the part of the debtor which could affect its ability to repay the loan, (v) market conditions that could affect the economic sector in which the debtor is active. Consumer loans are categorized as Class B when payments are between nine and 30 days past due. Residential mortgage loans are categorized as Class B when payments are between 31 and 90 days past due. Substandard (Class C): Debtors with commercial loans in this category demonstrate serious financial weakness. They often do not have sufficient operating results or available income to cover their financial obligations, and do not have reasonable short-term prospects for strengthening their financial capacity. Debtors demonstrating the same deficiencies that warrant Class B classification will warrant Class C classification if those deficiencies are such that if not corrected in the near term, they could impede the recovery of principal and interest on the loan on the agreed-upon terms. Commercial loans are classified in this category when payments are between 61 and 120 days past due. Consumer loans are categorized as Class C when payments are between 31 and 60 days past due. Residential mortgage loans are categorized as Class C when payments are between 91 and 120 days past due. Doubtful (Class D): Debtors with commercial loans in this category demonstrate characteristics that make it doubtful that the loan will be recovered. Although recovery is doubtful, if there is a reasonable possibility that the creditworthiness of the debtor might improve in the near future, it is appropriate to categorize the loan as Class D. These loans are distinguished from Class E loans by the requirement that the debtor remain in operation, generate cash flow, and make payments on the loan, even if the payments are less than those required by the contract. Commercial loans are categorized as Class D if payments are between 121 and 365 days past due. Consumer loans are categorized as Class D when payments are between 61 and 120 days past due. Residential mortgage loans are categorized as Class D when payments are between 121 and 365 days past due. Loss credits (Class E): Commercial loans or credits are categorized as Class E if the loans are considered unrecoverable or for any other reason the loans should not appear on our books as an asset based on the originally contracted terms. Commercial loans are categorized as Class E when payments are more than 365 days past due. Consumer loans are categorized as Class E when payments are more than 120 days past due. Residential mortgage loans are categorized as Class E when payments are more than 365 days past due. We continually review our loan portfolio to assess the completion and accuracy of our loan classifications. All loans considered impaired (those classified as substandard, doubtful or loss) are analyzed by management. Management will address the impairment in two areas, individually assessed allowances and collectively assessed allowances, as follows: Individually Assessed Allowance We determine the appropriate allowances for each individually significant loan or advance on an individual basis. In determining the allowance, we consider items such as (i) the sustainability of the party’s business plan, (ii) its ability to improve performance once a financial difficulty has arisen, (iii) projected receipts and the expected dividend payout should bankruptcy ensue, (iv) the availability of other financial support and the potential realized value of collateral, and (v) the timing of expected cash flows. Impairment losses are evaluated at each reporting date, unless unforeseen circumstances require more attention. Collectively Assessed Allowance We assess allowances collectively for (i) losses on loans and advances that are not individually significant (including consumer and residential mortgages) and (ii) individually significant loans and advances where there is not yet objective evidence of individual impairment (the Class A and B loans). We evaluate allowances on each reporting date, and each portfolio receives a separate review. 84 Our collective assessment takes into account an impairment that is likely to be present in the portfolio even though there is no objective evidence of the impairment in an individual assessment. We estimate impairment losses by considering the following information: (i) historical losses on the portfolio, (ii) current economic conditions, (iii) the approximate delay between the time a loss is likely to be incurred and the time it will be identified as requiring an individually assessed impairment allowance and (iv) expected receipts and recoveries once the impairment occurs. Local management is responsible for deciding the appropriate length of time, which can extend as long as one year. The impairment allowance is then reviewed by credit management to ensure it aligns with our overall policy. We assess financial guarantees and letters of credit in the same way we assess loans. When a borrower is located in a country where there is an increased risk of difficulty servicing external debt, we assess the political and economic conditions in that country, and factor additional country risk into our assessment. When we determine that a loan is uncollectible, it is written off against the provision for loan impairment. We write off these loans after all necessary procedures are completed and the amount of the loss is determined. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off decrease the amount of the provision for loan impairment in our consolidated income statements. The following table shows our direct loan portfolio at the dates indicated: At December 31, 2008 2009 2010 (U.S. Dollars in thousands, except percentages) Level of Risk Classification Amount % Total Amount % Total Amount % Total A: Normal US$ 9,991,559 95.6 % US$ 10,717,658 93.2 % US$ 13,564,435 95.0 % B: Potential Problems US$ 264,890 2.5 % US$ 431,356 3.7 % US$ 313,148 2.2 % C: Substandard US$ 70,268 0.7 % US$ 115,629 1.0 % US$ 128,445 0.9 % D: Doubtful US$ 79,394 0.8 % US$ 139,389 1.2 % US$ 121,345 0.8 % E: Loss US$ 50,173 0.5 % US$ 101,287 0.9 % US$ 150,691 1.1 % Total (1) US$ 10,456,284 100.0 % US$ 11,505,319 100.0 % US$ 14,278,064 100.0 % C+D+E US$ 199,835 1.9 % US$ 356,305 3.1 % US$ 400,481 2.8 % At December 31, 2011 2012 (U.S. Dollars in thousands, except percentages) Level of Risk Classification Amount % Total Amount % Total A: Normal US$16,461,546 95.0% US$20,227,427 94.9% B: Potential Problems US$390,329 2.3% US$451,660 2.1% C: Substandard US$140,821 0.8% US$192,544 0.9% D: Doubtful US$156,525 0.9% US$232,168 0.9% E: Loss US$171,157 1.0% US$208,129 1.1% Total (1) US$17,320,378 100.0% US$21,311,928 100.0% C+D+E US$468,503 2.7% US$632,841 3.0% (1)Net of unearned interest and without accrued interest. – The unearned interest from impaired classifications (C+D+E) amounted to approximately US$250,000 in 2008, US$44,000 in 2009, US$159,000 in 2010, US$12,000 in 2011 and US$69,000 in 2012. All of our Class E loans and substantially all of our Class D loans are past due. Class C loans, although generally not past due, have demonstrated credit deterioration such that management has serious doubts as to the ability of the borrower to comply with the loan repayment terms. Our manufacturing sector loans are primarily secured by warrants and liens on goods or by mortgages, and our agricultural loans tend to be secured by trade bills and marketable securities. The Class C loans reflect the financial weakness of the individual borrower rather than any trend in the Peruvian manufacturing or agricultural industries in general. 85 Classification of the Loan Portfolio Based on the Borrower’s Payment Performance Past due and impaired loans are disclosed in accordance with SBS rules. Under SBS rules, the time periods used to determine whether an installment or an entire loan balance is past due depends on their type. BCP considers loans past due for corporate, large business and medium business loans after 15 days; for small and micro business loans after 30 days; for and overdrafts after 30 days; and for consumer, mortgage and leasing loans after 90 days. In the case of consumer, mortgage and leasing loans, which have installments, from 30 to 90 days only the past due installments are considered past due, but after 90 days the outstanding balance of the loan is considered past due. ASHC considers all overdue loans past due, except for consumer loans, which are considered past due when the scheduled principal and/or interest payments are overdue for more than 90 days. BCP Bolivia considers loans past due after 30 days. The entire loan balance under IFRS 7 is considered past due when debtors have failed to make a payment when contractually due. For more detail, see note 30.1 of the consolidated financial statements. As of December 31, 2012, Credicorp did not have any loans that were overdue by more than 90 days but that were still accruing interest. Interest income is suspended when the collection of loans is doubtful, such as when overdue by more than 90 days. When a borrower or securities issuer defaults earlier than 90 days, the income is excluded from interest income until it is received. Uncollected income on these loans is applied against income. When management determines that the debtor’s financial condition has improved (a debtor’s financial condition is only considered improved once the debtor has paid the principal and interest due on its loans), we continue recording interest on an accrual basis. Therefore, we do not accrue interest on past-due loans, but interest on past-due loans is recognized only if and to the extent received. Over the past five years, we have recognized interest income on these loans of US$5.2 million in 2008, US$7.2 million in 2009, US$14.2 million in 2010, US$15.4 million in 2011 and US$21.0 million in 2012. With the exception of discounted notes and overdrafts, accrued but unpaid interest is reversed for past-due loans. The following table sets forth the repayment status of our loan portfolio as of the date indicated. At December 31, 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (U.S. Dollars in thousands, except percentages) Current US$10,373,417 US$11,320,752 US$14,068,156 US$17,061,328 US$20,939,497 Past due: Overdue 16 - 90 days (2) 26,235 51,701 46,087 64,362 106,495 Overdue 90 days or more 56,632 132,865 163,821 194,688 265,936 Subtotal US$82,867 US$184,567 US$209,908 US$259,050 US$372,431 Total loans US$10,456,284 US$11,505,319 US$14,278,064 US$17,320,378 US$21,311,928 Past-due loan amounts as % of total loans 0.79% 1.60% 1.47% 1.50% 1.75% (1)Net of unearned interest and without accrued interest. (2)The amount in 2012 would increase to US$179,500 approximately, if the outstanding balance of consumer, mortgage and leasing loans overdue to 90 days or less are included. With respect to consumer, mortgage and leasing loans, BCP (in accordance with SBS regulations) only recognizes payments as past-due installments if the loan is less than 90 days past due. The entire amount of the loans is considered past due if any amount is past due more than 90 days. For IFRS 7 disclosure requirements on past-due loans, see Note 30.1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 86 Past-Due Loan Portfolio The following table analyzes our past-due loan portfolio by the type of loan at the dates indicated. At December 31, 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (U.S. Dollars in thousands) Past-due loan amounts: Loans US$65,947 US$153,112 US$183,058 US$222,133 US$324,670 Discounted notes 1,242 2,151 2,906 2,944 2,672 Advances and overdrafts in demand deposits 2,112 4,015 3,717 2,576 3,271 Leasing transactions 3,468 9,653 1,443 8,127 8,814 Refinanced loans 10,098 15,636 18,784 23,270 22,003 Total past-due portfolio US$82,867 US$184,567 US$209,908 US$259,050 US$372,431 Less: Reserves for loan losses (1) US$248,063 US$376,049 US$448,597 US$558,186 US$744,508 Total past-due portfolio net of reserves US$(165,196) US$(191,482) US$(238,689) US$(299,136) US$(372,077) (1)Includes reserves for indirect credits (see “—Loan Loss Reserves”). As of December 31, 2012 total past-due loans were US$ 372.4 million and refinanced and restructured loans were US$ 142.2 million. Therefore, non-performing loans (past-due and refinanced and restructured loans) amounted to US$ 514.6 million. We recognize interest on past-due loans and loans in legal collection when the loans are collected. The interest income that would have been recorded for these credits in accordance with the terms of the original contract is approximately US$72.2 million and US$49.8 million as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Total Nonperforming Loans Nonperforming loans include past due loans as well as refinanced and restructured loans. As of December 31, 2012, total past due loans were US$372.4 million and refinanced and restructured loans were US$142.2 million. Therefore, total nonperforming loans equaled US$514.6 million. As of December 31, 2012 our delinquency ratio (past due loan ratio) was 1.75% and our nonperforming loan ratio (including past due, refinanced and restructured loans was 1%. See “