ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows are subject to many risks, including, but not limited to, those set forth below: The Company has incurred losses since it began doing business, except for 2005, and may continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. Emeritus organized and began operations in July 1993 and has operated at a loss since it began doing business, except for 2005. For 2009, 2008, and 2007, we recorded losses of $53.9 million, $104.8 million, and $48.7 million, respectively. We believe that the historically aggressive growth of the Company’s portfolio through acquisitions and developments and related financing activities, as well as our inability (along with most of the assisted living industry) to significantly increase occupancy rates at the Company’s communities, were among the causes of these losses. To date, at many of the Company’s communities, we have generally been able to stabilize occupancy and rate structures to levels that have resulted in positive cash flows from operating activities but not overall Company earnings. The Company’s ongoing results of operations may not become profitable in line with our current expectations or may not become profitable at all. If the Company cannot generate sufficient cash flows to cover required interest, principal, and lease payments, it risks defaults on its debt agreements and leases. At December 31, 2009, the Company had total debt of $1.4 billion, with minimum annual principal payments of $21.3 million due in 2010 and had both long-term operating and capital lease commitments requiring minimum annual payments of $24.0 million in 2010. In addition, the Company will have approximately $128.7 million and $236.7 million in principal amount of debt that matures in 2011 and 2012, respectively. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flows to make such payments as required and we are unable to renegotiate payments or obtain additional equity or debt financing, a lender could foreclose on the communities secured by the respective indebtedness or, in the case of a lease, could terminate the Company’s lease, 12 TABLE OF CONTENTS resulting in loss of income and asset value. In some cases, the Company’s indebtedness is secured by a particular community and a pledge of its interests in a subsidiary entity that owns that community. In the event of a default, a lender could avoid judicial procedures required to foreclose on real property by foreclosing on our pledge instead, thus accelerating its acquisition of that community. Furthermore, because of cross-default and cross-collateralization provisions in certain of the Company’s mortgage and lease agreements, if we default on one of the Company’s payment obligations, we could adversely affect a significant number of the Company’s communities. Because the Company is highly leveraged, we may not be able to respond to changing business and economic conditions or continue with selected acquisitions. A substantial portion of the Company’s future cash flows will be designated to debt service and lease payments. In the past, we have occasionally been dependent on third-party financing and disposition of assets to fund these obligations in full and we may be required to do so in the future. In addition, we are periodically required to refinance these obligations as they mature. The Company’s long-term debt was $1.4 billion at December 31, 2009, and its obligations under long-term operating and capital leases were $1.2 billion at December 31, 2009. These circumstances could reduce our flexibility and ability to respond to our business needs, including changing business and financial conditions such as increasing interest rates and opportunities to expand our business through selected acquisitions. We may be unable to increase or stabilize the Company’s occupancy rates at levels that would result in positive earnings. In previous years, we have been unable to increase the Company’s occupancy to levels that would result in net income on a sustained basis. The Company’s historical losses have resulted, in part, from occupancy levels that were lower than anticipated when we acquired or developed the Company’s communities. While the Company’s occupancy levels have increased in 2009 and each year from 2004 through 2007, during the three years prior to that and in 2008, occupancy levels declined, excluding the effects of acquired communities. The Company’s occupancy levels may not increase in the future and may never reach levels necessary to achieve net income. We may not find additional funding through public or private financing on acceptable terms. We may not find adequate equity, debt, or sale-leaseback financing when we need it or on terms acceptable to us. This could affect our ability to finance the Company’s operations or refinance the Company’s properties to avoid the consequences of default and foreclosure under the Company’s existing financing as described elsewhere. In addition, if we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, the Company’s shareholders may experience dilution in their investment. If we fail to comply with financial covenants contained in the Company’s debt instruments, the Company’s lenders may accelerate the related debt. From time to time, we have failed to comply with certain covenants in the Company’s financing and lease agreements relating generally to matters such as cash flow, debt and lease coverage ratios, and certain other performance standards. In the future, we may be unable to comply with these or other covenants. If we fail to comply with any of these requirements and are not able to obtain waivers, the Company’s lenders could accelerate the related indebtedness so that it becomes due and payable prior to its stated due date, and/or the lessors could terminate lease agreements. We may be unable to repay or refinance this debt if it becomes due. We self-insure many of the Company’s liabilities. In recent years, participants in the long-term care industry have experienced an increasing number of lawsuits alleging negligence, malpractice, or other related legal theories. Many of these suits involve large claims and significant legal costs. We expect that the Company will occasionally face such suits because of the nature of our business. The Company is responsible for the full loss of any professional liability claims. We also carry conventional commercial general liability insurance. Claims against the Company, regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, may also undermine our ability to attract residents or expand our business and would require management to devote time to matters unrelated to the operation of our business. Except on a very limited basis, we currently do not carry professional liability insurance and, although we review the Company’s liability insurance annually, we may not be able to obtain third-party liability insurance coverage in the future or, if available, on acceptable terms. We face risks associated with selective acquisitions. We intend to continue to seek selective acquisition opportunities. However, we may not succeed in identifying any future acquisition opportunities or completing any identified acquisitions. The acquisition of communities presents a number of risks. Existing communities available for acquisition may frequently serve or target different market segments than those we presently serve. It may be necessary in these cases to reposition and renovate acquired communities or turn over the existing resident 13 TABLE OF CONTENTS population to achieve a resident care level and income profile that is consistent with our objectives. In the past, these obstacles have delayed the achievement of acceptable occupancy levels and increased operating and capital expenditures. As a consequence, we currently plan to target assisted living communities with established operations, which could reduce the number of acquisitions we can complete and increase the expected cost. Even in these acquisitions, however, we may need to make staff and operating management personnel changes to successfully integrate acquired communities into the Company’s existing operations. We may not succeed in repositioning acquired communities or in effecting any necessary operational or structural changes and improvements on a timely basis. We also may face unforeseen liabilities attributable to the prior operator of the acquired communities, against whom we may have little or no recourse. Recent disruptions in the financial markets could affect our ability to obtain financing for development of the Company’s properties and other purposes, including any refinancing of the Company’s debt due in 2010 and 2011 on reasonable terms and could have other adverse effects on the Company and the market price of the Company’s common stock. The United States securities and credit markets have recently experienced significant price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions, which have caused market prices of many stocks to fluctuate substantially and the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. These circumstances have materially impacted liquidity in the financial markets, making terms for certain financings less attractive, and in some cases have resulted in the unavailability of financing. Continued uncertainty in the securities and credit markets may adversely affect our ability to access additional financing for development of the Company’s properties and other purposes, including any refinancing of the Company’s debt on reasonable terms. The Company will have approximately $5.5 million and $128.7 million in principal amount of debt that matures in 2010 and 2011, respectively. A prolonged downturn in the financial markets may cause us to seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive financing, and may require us to further adjust the Company’s business plan accordingly. These events also may make it more difficult or costly for us to raise capital. The disruptions in the financial markets have had and may have a material adverse effect on the market value of the Company’s common stock and other adverse effects on our business, the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. If we are unable to expand the Company’s facilities in accordance with our plans, the Company’s anticipated revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected. We are currently working on a limited number of projects that will expand several of the Company’s existing communities over the next several years. We are also developing two new senior living facilities in partnership with a third party. These projects are in various stages of development and are subject to a number of factors over which we have little or no control. Such factors include the necessity of arranging separate mortgage loans or other financings to provide the capital required to complete these projects; difficulties or delays in obtaining zoning, land use, building, occupancy, licensing, certificate of need and other required governmental permits and approvals; failure to complete construction of the projects on budget and on schedule; failure of third-party contractors and subcontractors to perform under their contracts; shortages of labor or materials that could delay projects or make them more expensive; adverse weather conditions that could delay completion of projects; increased costs resulting from general economic conditions or increases in the cost of materials; and increased costs as a result of changes in laws and regulations. We cannot assure you that we will elect to undertake or complete all of our proposed expansion and development projects, or that we will not experience delays in completing those projects. In addition, we may incur substantial costs prior to achieving stabilized occupancy for each such project and cannot assure you that these costs will not be greater than we have anticipated. We also cannot assure you that any of the Company’s development projects will be economically successful. Our failure to achieve the Company’s expansion and development plans could adversely impact our growth objectives and the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We expect competition in our industry to increase, which could cause the Company’s occupancy rates and resident fees to decline. The assisted living industry is highly competitive, and given the relatively low barriers to entry and continuing health care cost containment pressures, we expect that our industry will become increasingly competitive in the future. It is possible that market saturation in some locales could have an adverse effect on the Company’s communities and their ability to reach and maintain stabilized occupancy levels. Moreover, the senior housing services industry has been subject to pressures that have resulted in the consolidation of many small, local operations into larger regional and national multi-facility operations. We compete with other companies providing assisted living services as well as numerous other companies providing similar service and care alternatives, such as home healthcare agencies, independent living facilities, retirement communities, and skilled nursing facilities. We expect that competition from new market entrants will increase as assisted living residences receive increased 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS market awareness and more states decide to include assisted living services in their Medicaid programs. Some of these competitors may have substantially greater financial resources than we do. Increased competition may limit our ability to attract or retain residents or maintain the Company’s existing rate structures. This could lead to lower occupancy rates or lower rate structures in the Company’s communities. If development of new assisted living facilities outpaces demand, we may experience decreased occupancy, depressed margins, and diminished operating results. In the future, some assisted living markets in which we operate could reach a point of being overbuilt. The barriers to entry in the assisted living industry are not substantial. Consequently, the development of new assisted living facilities could outpace demand. Overbuilding in the markets in which we operate could thus cause the Company to experience decreased occupancy and depressed margins and could otherwise adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. Market forces could undermine our efforts to attract seniors with sufficient resources. We rely on the ability of our residents to pay the Company’s fees from their own or family financial resources. Generally, only seniors with income or assets meeting or exceeding the comparable median in the region where the Company’s assisted living communities are located can afford the Company’s fees. The economic recession, depressed housing market, inflation or other circumstances may undermine the ability of seniors to pay for our services. If we encounter difficulty in attracting seniors with adequate resources to pay for our services, the Company’s occupancy rates may decline or we may be forced to lower the Company’s rental rates. The Company’s labor costs may increase and may not be matched by corresponding increases in rates we charge to our residents. We compete with other providers of assisted living services and long-term care in attracting and retaining qualified and skilled personnel. We depend on our ability to attract and retain management personnel responsible for the day-to-day operations of each of the Company’s communities. If we are unable to attract or retain qualified community management personnel, the Company’s results of operations may suffer. In addition, possible shortages of nurses or trained personnel may require us to enhance our wage and benefits packages to compete in the hiring and retention of personnel. We also depend on the available labor pool of semi-skilled and unskilled employees in each of the markets in which we operate. From time to time we are the subject of union organizing activity that, if successful, could impact the Company’s labor costs. As a result of these and other factors, the Company’s labor costs may increase and may not be matched by corresponding increases in rates we charge to our residents. Some of the Company’s facilities generate infectious medical waste due to the illness or physical condition of the residents. The management of infectious medical waste, including handling, storage, transportation, treatment, and disposal, is subject to regulation under various laws, including federal and state environmental laws. These environmental laws set forth the management requirements, as well as permit, record-keeping, notice, and reporting obligations. Each of the Company’s facilities has an agreement with a waste management company for the proper disposal of all infectious medical waste. Any finding that we are not in compliance with these environmental laws could adversely affect our business and financial condition. While we are not aware of any non-compliance with environmental laws related to infectious medical waste at any of the Company’s properties, these environmental laws are amended from time to time and we cannot predict when and to what extent liability may arise. In addition, because these environmental laws vary from state to state, expansion of the Company’s operations to states where we do not currently operate may subject the Company to additional restrictions on the manner in which we operate the Company’s facilities. The Company’s Co-Chief Executive Officer, Daniel R. Baty, has personal interests that may conflict with ours due to his interest in Columbia Pacific Group, Inc. Mr. Baty is the principal owner of Columbia Pacific Group, Inc. (“Columbia Pacific”), a private company engaged in the development and operation of senior housing, assisted living communities, and hospitals in India and other parts of Asia. Columbia Pacific and affiliated partnerships also own assisted living communities, Alzheimer’s and dementia care facilities, and independent living facilities in the United States, some of which we manage under various management agreements. These financial interests and management and financing responsibilities of Mr. Baty with respect to Columbia Pacific and their affiliated partnerships could present conflicts of interest with us, including potential competition for residents in markets where both companies operate and competing demands for the time and efforts of Mr. Baty. Mr. Baty’s potentially competitive activities are limited by a noncompete agreement between him and the Company. However, the Company, with the approval of a committee of its Board of Directors, has waived the noncompete 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS obligations in certain cases when it was deemed beneficial to the Company to do so, including situations where it received a management contract and certain purchase rights for a Baty-related property. Mr. Baty financially supports some of the Company’s recent transactions and the operations of certain communities that we manage with limited guarantees and through his direct and indirect ownership of such communities; we would be unable to benefit from these transactions and managed communities without this support. As of December 31, 2009, we manage four communities owned by entities controlled by Mr. Baty. Mr. Baty was also the guarantor of a portion of the Company’s obligations under a 24-community lease with an entity in which Mr. Baty has an ownership interest. We acquired these properties in February 2007 in a transaction in which the entity affiliated with Mr. Baty provided the Company with financing in the amount of $18.0 million for two years, which financing was paid off in July 2007. In 2004, Mr. Baty personally guaranteed $3.0 million of the Company’s obligations under a long-term lease with Health Care Property Investors, Inc., an independent REIT, which terminated with the purchase of these communities in August 2007. Also in 2004, Mr. Baty guaranteed the Company’s obligations under a long-term lease relating to 20 communities. As part of this arrangement, which continues to be in effect for 18 of the communities (the “Cash Flow Sharing Communities”), he shares in 50% of the positive cash flow (as defined) and is responsible for 50% of the cash deficiency for these communities. In 2008, we entered into a 50-50 joint venture with Mr. Baty to purchase the real estate of eight of the Cash Flow Sharing Communities, into which Mr. Baty contributed approximately $6.8 million in 2008 and $1.1 million in 2009. In 2009, we borrowed $3.2 million from Baty-related entities to finance the purchase of two communities that we previously managed for these entities. We believe that we would have been unable to take advantage of these transactions and management opportunities without Mr. Baty’s individual and financial support. The ongoing administration of these transactions, however, could be adversely affected by these continuing relationships because our interests and those of Mr. Baty may not be congruent at all times. In addition, we cannot guarantee that his support will be available in the future. We may be unable to attract and retain key management personnel. We depend upon, and will continue to depend upon, the services of Mr. Baty and Mr. Cobb. Mr. Baty has financial interests and management responsibilities with respect to Columbia Pacific and its related partnerships that require a considerable amount of Mr. Baty’s time. As a result, he does not devote his full time and efforts to Emeritus. The loss of Mr. Baty’s services, or those of Mr. Cobb, could adversely affect the Company’s business and its results of operations. We also may be unable to attract and retain other qualified executive personnel critical to the success of our business. The Company’s costs of compliance with government regulations may significantly increase in the future. Federal, state, and local authorities heavily regulate the healthcare industry. Regulations change frequently, and sometimes require us to make expensive changes in the Company’s operations. We cannot predict to what extent legislative or regulatory initiatives will be enacted or adopted or what effect any initiative would have on our business and operating results. Changes in applicable laws and new interpretations of existing laws can significantly affect the Company’s operations, as well as the Company’s revenues, particularly those from governmental sources, and the Company’s expenses. These laws and regulatory requirements could affect our ability to expand into new markets and to expand our services and facilities in existing markets. In addition, if any of the Company’s presently licensed facilities operates outside of its licensing authority, it may be subject to penalties, including closure of the facility. The Company’s residential communities are subject to varying degrees of regulation and licensing by local and state health and social service agencies and other regulatory authorities. Federal, state, and local governments occasionally conduct unannounced investigations, audits, and reviews to determine whether violations of applicable rules and regulations exist. Devoting management and staff time and legal resources to such investigations, as well as any material violation by the Company that is discovered in any such investigation, audit, or review, could strain our resources and affect the Company’s results of operations. In addition, regulatory oversight of construction efforts associated with refurbishment could cause the Company to lose residents and disrupt community operations. While these regulations and licensing requirements often vary significantly from state to state, they typically include: · state and local laws impacting licensure; · consumer protection against deceptive practices; · laws affecting the management of property and equipment, including living accommodations such as room size, number of bathrooms, ventilation, furnishing of resident units, and other physical plant specifications; · laws affecting how we otherwise conduct the Company’s operations, such as staff training; personnel education; records management; admission and discharge criteria; documentation and reporting requirements; privacy laws, and fire, health, and safety laws and regulations; 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS · federal and state laws designed to protect Medicare and Medicaid, which mandate and define allowable costs, pricing, quality of services, quality of care, food service, resident rights (including abuse and neglect) and responsibilities, and fraud; and · federal and state residents’ rights statutes and regulations; Anti-Kickback and physicians referral (Stark) laws; and safety and health standards set by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration. We may be unable to satisfy all regulations and requirements or to acquire and maintain any required licenses on a cost-effective basis. Failure to comply with applicable requirements could lead to enforcement action that could materially and adversely affect business and revenues. Loss, suspension or modification of a license may also cause the Company to default under its leases and/or trigger cross-defaults. The Company is also subject to federal and state regulations regarding government funded public assistance that prohibit certain business practices and relationships. Because we accept residents who receive financial assistance from governmental sources for their assisted living services, we are subject to federal and state regulations that prohibit certain business practices and relationships. Failure to comply with these regulations could prevent reimbursement for our healthcare services under Medicaid or similar state reimbursement programs. Our failure to comply with such regulations also could result in fines and the suspension or inability to renew the Company’s operating licenses. Acceptance of federal or state funds could subject the Company to potential false claims actions or whistleblower claims. We face possible environmental liabilities at each of the Company’s properties. Under various federal, state, and local environmental laws, ordinances, and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be held liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances, including asbestos-containing materials that could be located on, in, or under its property. These laws and regulations often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. We could face substantial costs of any required remediation or removal of these substances, and the Company’s liability typically is not limited under applicable laws and regulations. The Company’s liability could exceed its properties’ value or the value of its assets. We may be unable to sell or rent the Company’s properties, or borrow using the Company’s properties as collateral, if any of these substances are present or if we fail to remediate them properly. Under these laws and regulations, if we arrange for the disposal of hazardous or toxic substances such as asbestos-containing materials at a disposal site, the Company also may be liable for the costs of the removal or destruction of the hazardous or toxic substances at the disposal site. In addition to liability for these costs, the Company could be liable for governmental fines and injuries to persons or properties. In addition to the risks described above, investing in Emeritus common stock involves the following risks: We may experience volatility in the market price of Emeritus common stock due to the lower trading volume and lower public ownership of Emeritus common stock. The market price of Emeritus common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and is likely to continue to be highly volatile. In particular, the volatility of Emeritus common stock is influenced by lower trading volume and lower public ownership relative to several other publicly-held competitors, as well as recent turmoil in the stock market. For example, the closing stock price has ranged from $4.88 per share to $24.54 per share during fiscal 2009. As of March 1, 2010, affiliates owned 49.22% of the outstanding shares; therefore, Emeritus common stock is relatively less liquid and may be more susceptible to large price fluctuations. Many factors could cause the market price of Emeritus common stock to significantly rise and fall. In addition to the matters discussed in other risk factors discussed in this filing, some of the reasons for the fluctuations in Emeritus common stock prices could be: · fluctuations in the Company’s operating income from continuing operations; · changes in the Company’s business, operations, or prospects; · changes in the regulatory environment; · sales of Emeritus common stock by affiliates; · the hiring or departure of key personnel; · announcements or activities by the Company’s competitors; · proposed acquisitions by the Company or its competitors; 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS · financial results that fail to meet public market analysts expectations and changes in stock market analysts’ recommendations regarding Emeritus common stock, other healthcare companies, or the healthcare industry in general; · adverse judgments or settlements obligating the Company to pay damages; · acts of war, terrorism, or national calamities; · industry, domestic and international market and economic conditions; and · decisions by investors to de-emphasize investment categories, groups, or strategies that include the Company or its industry. In addition, the stock market has recently experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations are often unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of Emeritus common stock. When the market price of a company’s stock drops significantly, shareholders may institute securities class action litigation against that company. Any litigation against the Company could cause it to incur substantial costs, divert our time and attention and other resources, or otherwise harm our business. Insiders have substantial control over the Company and are able to influence corporate matters. Under the terms of a shareholders agreement entered into in connection with the Summerville acquisition, a representative from each of the shareholder groups related to Mr. Baty (the “Baty shareholders”), Apollo Real Estate Investment Funds III and IV (the “Apollo shareholders”) and Saratoga Partner IV, L.P. (the “Saratoga shareholders”) has been elected or appointed to the Company’s Board of Directors. The Company’s directors and executive officers and their affiliates, including the Baty shareholders, the Apollo shareholders, and the Saratoga shareholders, own, in the aggregate, approximately 49.22% of the Company’s outstanding common stock as of March 1, 2010. As a result, these shareholders are able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of the Company or its assets. This concentration of ownership could limit a shareholder’s ability to influence corporate matters and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control over the Company. Future sales of shares by existing shareholders could cause the Emeritus common stock price to decline. Based on shares outstanding as of March 1, 2010, the Company has outstanding approximately 39,278,140 shares of common stock, of which the Company’s executive officers, directors and affiliates controlled by them beneficially own 19,332,276 shares. The shares received by the Apollo shareholders in the Summerville acquisition were eligible for sale in the public market beginning September 1, 2008, subject to volume limitations under Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. However, pursuant to a registration rights agreement the Company entered into with the Apollo shareholders, the Baty shareholders, the Saratoga shareholders, and Mr. Cobb, we agreed to register shares of common stock beneficially owned by these persons under certain circumstances. In particular, we filed a shelf registration statement, which was declared effective by the SEC on January 16, 2008, to permit public resale of 4,859,008 shares beneficially owned by Apollo shareholders and 1,800,000 shares beneficially owned by certain Saratoga shareholders. Pursuant to this registration statement, these shareholders will be able to publicly resell the identified Emeritus shares of common stock without restriction. Moreover, if one or more parties to the registration rights agreement exercise their rights with respect to the shares they own, additional shares may become eligible for public resale without restriction. As of December 31, 2009, options for a total of 3,320,976 shares of common stock were outstanding under the Company’s equity incentive plans, of which a total of 1,499,743 shares were then exercisable. Of the shares exercisable, 645,017 shares were exercisable at a price in excess of the Company’s stock trading price at December 31, 2009. All of the shares issuable on exercise of such vested options are eligible for sale in the public market. If the Company’s executive officers, directors, or significant shareholders sell, or indicate an intention to sell, substantial amounts of Emeritus common stock in the public market, the trading price of Emeritus common stock could decline. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, the Emeritus common stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for Emeritus common stock may depend in part on any research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about the Company or its business. The Company currently has limited research coverage by securities and industry analysts. 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS Lack of research coverage could negatively impact the market for Emeritus common stock. In the event additional securities or industry analysts do initiate coverage of the Company and one or more of these analysts downgrade Emeritus common stock or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, the Emeritus common stock price would likely decline. Antitakeover provisions of Washington law, the Company’s articles of incorporation and its restated bylaws may prevent or delay an acquisition of it that shareholders may consider favorable or may prevent or delay attempts to replace or remove its Board of Directors. The Company’s articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions, such as the right of its directors to issue preferred stock from time to time with voting, economic and other rights superior to those of its common stock without the consent of the Company’s shareholders, and prohibitions on cumulative voting in the election of directors, all of which could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire the Company without the consent of its Board of Directors. In addition, the Company’s articles of incorporation provide for its Board of Directors to be divided into three classes serving staggered terms of three years each, permit removal of directors only for cause by the holders of not less than two-thirds of the shares entitled to elect the director whose removal is sought, and require two-thirds shareholder approval of certain matters, including business combination transactions not approved by its incumbent board and the amendment of the Company’s restated bylaws. Furthermore, the Company’s restated bylaws require advance notice of shareholder proposals and nominations and impose restrictions on the persons who may call special shareholder meetings. In addition, Chapter 23B.19 of the Washington Business Corporation Act prohibits certain business combinations between the Company and certain significant shareholders unless certain conditions are met. These provisions may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of the Company even if this change of control would benefit its shareholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED SEC STAFF COMMENTS None. 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS 