Item 1A. Risk Factors. There are risks associated with an investment in our securities. Please consider the following risks and all of the other information in this annual report on Form 10-K and in our subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Our business may also be adversely affected by risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial. If any of the events contemplated by the following discussion of risks should occur or other risks arise or develop, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations, as well as the trading prices of our securities, may be adversely affected. The beauty business is highly competitive, and if we are unable to compete effectively our results will suffer. We face vigorous competition from companies throughout the world, including multinational consumer product companies. Some of these competitors have greater resources than we do and may be able to respond to changing business and economic conditions more quickly than us. Competition in the beauty business is based on pricing of products, innovation, perceived value, service to the consumer, promotional activities, advertising, special events, new product introductions, electronic commerce initiatives and other activities. It is difficult for us to predict the timing and scale of our competitors’ actions in these areas. In particular, the fragrance category in the United States is influenced by the high volume of new product introductions by diverse companies across several different distribution channels. Also, the trend toward consolidation in the retail trade, particularly in developed markets such as the United States and Western Europe, has resulted in us becoming increasingly dependent on key retailers, including large-format retailers, who have increased their bargaining strength. This trend has also resulted in an increased risk related to the concentration of our customers. A severe adverse impact on their business operations could have a corresponding material adverse effect on us. Our ability to compete also depends on the continued strength of our brands, our ability to attract and retain key talent and other personnel, the efficiency of our manufacturing facilities and distribution network, and our ability to protect our intellectual property. Our inability to continue to compete effectively in countries around the world could have an adverse impact on our business. Our inability to anticipate and respond to market trends and changes in consumer preferences could adversely affect our financial results. Our continued success depends on our ability to anticipate, gauge and react in a timely and cost-effective manner to changes in consumer tastes for skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care products as well as to where and how consumers shop for those products. We must continually work to develop, produce and market new products, maintain and enhance the recognition of our brands, achieve a favorable mix of products, and refine our approach as to how and where we market and sell our products. While we devote considerable effort and resources to shape, analyze and respond to consumer preferences, we recognize that consumer tastes cannot be predicted with certainty and can change rapidly. If we are unable to anticipate and respond to trends in the market for our products and changing consumer demands, our financial results will suffer. Our future success depends on our ability to achieve our long-term strategy. Our long-term strategy is based on five strategic imperatives: 1. Optimize brand portfolio 2. Strengthen product categories 3. Strengthen and expand geographic presence 4. Diversify and strengthen distribution channels 5. Achieve operational and cost excellence Achieving our long-term objectives may require investment in new brands, categories, distribution channels, technologies and geographic markets. These investments may result in short-term costs without any current revenues and, therefore, may be dilutive to our earnings, at least in the short-term. In addition, we may dispose of our brands and incur costs in doing so. Although we believe that our strategic imperatives will lead to long-term growth in revenue and profitability, we may not realize, in full or in part, the anticipated benefits. The failure to realize benefits, which may be due to our ability to execute plans or other risks described herein, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 12 Any future acquisitions may expose us to additional risks. We continuously review acquisition opportunities that would expand our current product offerings, our distribution channels, increase the size and geographic scope of our operations or otherwise offer growth and operating efficiency opportunities. If required, the financing for any of these acquisitions could result in an increase in our indebtedness, dilute the interests of our stockholders or both. Acquisitions may entail numerous risks, including: · difficulties in assimilating acquired operations or products, including the loss of key employees from or customers of acquired businesses; · diversion of management’s attention from our core businesses; · adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; and · risks of entering distribution channels, categories or markets in which we have limited or no prior experience. Our failure to successfully complete the integration of any acquired business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or consummate acquisitions on favorable terms. A general economic downturn or sudden disruption in business conditions may affect consumer purchases of discretionary items, which could adversely affect our financial results. The general level of consumer spending is affected by a number of factors, including general economic conditions, inflation, interest rates, energy costs, and consumer confidence generally, all of which are beyond our control. Consumer purchases of discretionary items tend to decline during recessionary periods, when disposable income is lower, and may impact sales of our products. In addition, sudden disruptions in business conditions, for example, as a consequence of events such as the outbreak of SARs in 2003 or those that are currently taking place in the Middle East, or as a result of a terrorist attack, retaliation and the threat of further attacks or retaliation, or as a result of adverse weather conditions, such as Hurricane Katrina, can have a short and, sometimes, long-term impact on consumer spending. Events that impact consumers’ willingness or ability to travel and/or purchase our products while traveling may impact our travel retail business, which is a significant contributor to our overall results. A downturn in the economies in which we sell our products or a sudden disruption of business conditions in those economies could adversely affect our sales. Changes in laws, regulations and policies that affect our business could adversely affect our financial results. Our business is subject to numerous laws, regulations and policies. Changes in the laws, regulations and policies, including the interpretation or enforcement thereof, that affect, or will affect, our business, including changes in accounting standards, tax laws and regulations, trade rules and customs regulations, and the outcome and expense of legal or regulatory proceedings, and any action we may take as a result could adversely affect our financial results. Our success depends, in part, on the quality and safety of our products. Our success depends, in part, on the quality and safety of our products. If our products are found to be defective or unsafe, or if they otherwise fail to meet our consumers’ standards, our relationships with customers or consumers could suffer, the appeal of one or more of our brands could be diminished, and we could lose sales and/or become subject to liability claims, any of which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our success depends, in part, on our key personnel. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to retain our key personnel, including our executive officers and senior management team. The unexpected loss of one or more of our key employees could adversely affect our business. Our success also depends, in part, on our continuing ability to identify, hire, train and retain other highly qualified personnel. Competition for these employees can be intense. We may not be able to attract, assimilate or retain qualified personnel in the future, and our failure to do so could adversely affect our business. This risk may be exacerbated by the stresses associated with the implementation of SMI (as defined below) and other initiatives. 13 We are subject to risks related to our international operations. We operate on a global basis, with approximately 54% of our fiscal 2007 net sales generated outside the United States. We maintain offices in over 35 countries and have key operational facilities located outside the United States that manufacture, warehouse or distribute goods for sale throughout the world. Foreign operations are subject to many risks and uncertainties, including: · fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which can affect our results of operations, the value of our foreign assets, the relative prices at which we and foreign competitors sell products in the same markets and the cost of certain inventory and non-inventory items required in our operations; · changes in foreign laws, regulations and policies, including restrictions on trade, import and export license requirements, and tariffs and taxes, as well as changes in United States laws and regulations relating to foreign trade and investment; and · adverse weather conditions, social, economic and geopolitical conditions, such as terrorist attacks, war or other military action. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. A disruption in operations could adversely affect our business and financial results. As a company engaged in manufacturing and distribution on a global scale, we are subject to the risks inherent in such activities, including industrial accidents, environmental events, strikes and other labor disputes, disruptions in logistics or information systems, loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites, product quality control, safety, licensing requirements and other regulatory issues, as well as natural disasters and other external factors over which we have no control. If such an event were to occur, it could have an adverse affect on our business and financial results. Our information systems and websites may be susceptible to outages and other risks. We have information systems that support our business processes, including product development, marketing, sales, order processing, production, distribution, finance and intracompany communications throughout the world. We have e-commerce and other Internet websites in the United States and many other countries. These systems may be susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events. Despite the implementation of network security measures, our systems may be vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering. The occurrence of these or other events could disrupt or damage our information systems and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are subject to risks associated with implementing global information systems. As part of a program that we call our “Strategic Modernization Initiative,” or “SMI,” we are implementing enterprise-wide global programs intended to deliver a single set of integrated data, processes and technologies, which would be scalable and used to standardize business processes across brands, operating units and sales affiliates. We implemented SMI at our Aveda operating unit in May 2007. We anticipate SMI implementation will continue at additional locations in fiscal 2008, with the majority of our locations to be implemented through fiscal 2010. Like most entity-wide changes to software systems, the implementation of SMI involves risks and uncertainties. Failure to implement SMI as planned, in terms of timing, specifications and/or costs, could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. The trading prices of our securities periodically may rise or fall based on the accuracy of predictions of our earnings or other financial performance. Our business planning process is designed to maximize our long-term strength, growth and profitability, not to achieve an earnings target in any particular fiscal quarter. We believe that this longer-term focus is in the best interests of the Company and our stockholders. At the same time, however, we recognize that it may be helpful to provide investors with guidance as to our forecast of net sales and earnings. Accordingly, when we announced our year-end financial results for fiscal 2007, we provided guidance as to our expected net sales and earnings for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2008 and the quarter ending September 30, 2007. While we generally expect to provide updates to our guidance when we report our results each fiscal quarter, we assume no responsibility to update any of our forward-looking statements at such times or otherwise. In addition, the longer-term guidance we provide is based on goals that we believe, at the time guidance is given, are reasonably attainable for growth and performance over a number of years. Such targets are more speculative than our current quarter and fiscal year expectations. In all of our public statements when we make, or update, a forward-looking statement about our sales and/or earnings expectations, we accompany such statements directly, or by reference to a public document, with a list of factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those we expect. Such a list is included, among other places, in our earnings press release and in our periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (e.g., in our reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q). These and other factors may make it difficult for outside observers, such as research analysts, to predict what our earnings will be in any given fiscal quarter or year. 14 Outside analysts, like all investors, have the right to make their own predictions of our financial results for any future period. Outside analysts, however, have access to no more material information about our plans than any other public investor, and we do not endorse their predictions as to our future performance. Nor do we assume any responsibility to correct the predictions of outside analysts or others when they differ from our own internal expectations. If and when we announce actual results that differ from those that outside analysts or others have been predicting, the market price of our securities could be affected. Investors who rely on the predictions of outside analysts or others when making investment decisions with respect to our securities do so at their own risk. We take no responsibility for any losses suffered as a result of such changes in the prices of our securities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. As of the filing of this annual report on Form 10-K, there were no unresolved comments from the Staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Item 