D Risk Factors Our businesses are affected by many external and other factors in the markets in which we operate. Different risk factors can impact our businesses, our ability to effectively operate and our business strategies. You should consider the risk factors carefully and read them in conjunction with all the information in this document. You should note that the risk factors described below are not the only risks to consider. Rather, these are the risks that we currently consider material. There may be additional risks that we consider immaterial or of which we are unaware, and any of these risks could have similar effects to those set forth below. Our geographic location exposes us to risk related to Peruvian political, social and economic conditions. Most of BCP’s, Grupo Pacífico’s and Prima AFP’s operations and customers are located in Peru. In addition, although ASB is based outside Peru, most of its customers are located in Peru. Accordingly, our results of operations and financial condition are dependent on the level of economic activity in Peru. Changes in economic or other policies of the Peruvian government, which has exercised and continues to exercise a substantial influence over many aspects of the private sector, could affect our results of operations and financial condition. Similarly, other political, economic and social developments in Peru, including government-influenced effects on inflation, currency devaluation and economic growth could affect our operations and financial condition. For several decades, Peru had a history of political instability that has included military coups and a succession of regimes with differing policies and programs. During the last 17 years, however, Peru has experienced a period of relative political and economic stability, which has led to positive economic performance, including a GDP compounded annual growth rate of 6.3% for the last ten years (2004 to 2013). The government of Alberto Fujimori, who took office in July 1990, initiated a series of reforms aimed at: (i) stabilizing the economy, (ii) restructuring the national government (by reducing bureaucracy), (iii) privatizing state-owned companies, (iv) promoting private investment, (v) eradicating corruption and bribery in the judicial system, (vi) developing and strengthening free markets, (vii) institutionalizing democratic representation; and (viii) enacting programs designed to strengthen basic services related to education, health, housing and infrastructure. While serving his third term, President Fujimori was forced to call for general elections under extreme protest in July 2000 when corruption in his government was exposed to the public. Fujimori later resigned in favor of a transitory government. In April of 2009, following a 15-month trial in Lima, Fujimori was sentenced to 25 years in prison for violations of human rights in connection with government-linked death squads. The two administrations that followed the Fujimori administration, after the transitional government led by Valentin Paniagua (2000 - 2001), were the Toledo administration (2001 - 2006) and the García administration (2006 - 2011). Both governments followed similar economic policies, which focused on achieving sustained economic growth; increasing exports of Peruvian goods; reducing unemployment, underemployment and poverty; reforming the tax system; fostering private investment and increasing public investment in education, public health and other social programs, while reducing overall public spending. 15 Peru’s current president, Ollanta Humala from the Gana Perú political coalition, took office on July 28, 2011 for a five-year term through 2016, after winning a run-off election. President Humala has, since his inauguration, substantially maintained the moderate economic policies of former president Alan García, whose administration was characterized by business-friendly and open-market economic policies that sustained and fostered economic growth, while controlling the inflation rate at historically low levels. However, we cannot assure you that the current or any future administration will maintain business-friendly and open-market economic policies or policies that stimulate economic growth and social stability, in particular given President Humala’s left-leaning political history and statements made during his presidential campaigns in 2006 and 2011. Any changes in the Peruvian economy or the Peruvian government’s economic policies may have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Peru also has a history of domestic terrorism and social unrest. The terrorist organizations that were particularly active in Peru during 1980s and the early 1990s were the Movimiento Revolucionario Tupac Amaru (MRTA) and the Sendero Luminoso (Shining Path). The leader of the Shining Path, Abimael Guzmán, was captured and imprisoned in 1992. In 2012, the most recent significant leader of this organization, Florindo Flores, commonly known as Artemio, was also captured. Nevertheless, terrorism, narcotrafficking and narco-terrorism remain key challenges for the Government. Remnants of the Shining Path rebel group have survived and the group is now split into two relatively independent factions; one in Peru’s Upper Huallaga Valley and one in the Apurimac and Ene River Valley (VRAE). These regions constitute the largest areas of coca cultivation and the main centers of “narco-terrorism” in Peru. Any resumption in terrorist activity by the MRTA, the Shining Path or other organizations may adversely affect our operations and financial condition. In recent years, Peru has experienced social unrest in geographic areas that contribute to the country’s mining industry. Mining is an important sector of the Peruvian economy, representing approximately 55.1% of the country’s exports and 18% of its tax revenues; according to the Banco Central de Reserva del Perú (BCRP) or the Peruvian Central Bank. However, while recent governments have concentrated on increasing the revenues and profitability of the mining industry, there has been less focus on improving the social and economic conditions of local communities affected by the industry, which has increased political tension. The most recent manifestation of this tension can be seen in social conflict around Conga, a gold-copper project located in northern Peru. The project, which included investments of approximately US$4.5 billion, initially failed to launch because of social protests led by residents concerned about its potential impact on the local water supply. In December 2011, the Peruvian government declared a state of emergency in the area, which lasted for approximately 10 days, and afterwards requested a new environmental impact study from independent consultants. The results of the study were delivered on April 16, 2012, and the Peruvian government has established a series of new conditions to improve the project that the mining company would be required to accept to continue with the project. Nevertheless, even without this project, copper production in Peru could double between 2012 and 2017. Another copper mine project, Toromocho, began in the fourth quarter of 2013. Three other projects in Cerro Verde, Constancia, and Las Bambas are expected to begin operations within four years. Although copper prices have declined recently, the cost of these projects is expected to be below the median costs for mining projects in copper industry, so the planned mining projects may continue development despite the decline in prices. A possible cancellation of any major projects may have an impact on foreign investment decision and plans, which in turn could negatively affect Peru’s GDP and the growth of the Peruvian financial system. 16 Foreign exchange fluctuations and exchange controls may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Even though the functional currency of our financial statements was U.S. Dollars until December 31, 2013 and is the Nuevo Sol from January 1, 2014 onwards, Credicorp’s subsidiaries generate revenues in Nuevos Soles, U.S. Dollars, Bolivian Pesos, Colombian Pesos, and Chilean Pesos. The aforementioned exposed us to the fluctuation of Credicorp’s functional currency against the other currencies, which could have an impact on our results. For information on the change in the functional currency of Credicorp, see Item 5A. Operating Results - Change in Functional Currency for Financial Reporting. The Peruvian government does not impose restrictions on a company’s ability to transfer Nuevos Soles, U.S. Dollars or other currencies from Peru to other countries, to convert Peruvian currency into other currencies. Nevertheless, Peru has implemented restrictive exchange controls in its history, and the Peruvian government might in the future consider it necessary to implement restrictions on such transfers, payments or conversions. See “Item 10. Additional Information—(D) Exchange Controls.” Peru’s foreign reserves currently compare favorably with those of many other Latin American countries. However, a reduction in the level of foreign reserves will impact the country’s ability to meet its foreign currency-denominated obligations. A decline in Peruvian foreign reserves to inadequate levels, among other economic circumstances, could lead to currency devaluation or a volatility of short-term capital inflows. We have taken steps to manage the gap between our foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities in several ways, including closely matching their volumes and maturities. Nevertheless, a sudden and significant devaluation of the Nuevo Sol could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Foreign Exchange Risk.” Finally, BCP Bolivia, Credicorp Capital Colombia and IMTrust are also exposed to foreign exchange fluctuations. Any exchange controls that could be implemented in their countries may adversely affect their financial condition and results of operations. For information on the macroeconomic scenario in these countries, see the risk factor “Our banking and capital market operations in neighboring countries expose us to risk related to political and economic conditions”. It may be difficult to serve process on or enforce judgments against us or our principals residing outside of the United States. A significant majority of our directors and officers live outside the United States (principally in Peru). All or most of our assets and those of our principals are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or our principals to bring forth a civil suit under the United States securities laws in United States courts. We have been advised by our Peruvian counsel that liability under the United States federal securities laws may not be enforceable in original actions in Peruvian courts. Also, judgments of United States courts obtained in actions under the United States federal securities laws may not be enforceable. Similarly, Bermudan counsel advised us that courts in Bermuda may not enforce judgments obtained in other jurisdictions, or entertain actions in Bermuda, against us or our directors or officers under the securities laws of those jurisdictions. 17 In addition, our bye-laws contain a broad waiver by shareholders of any claim or right of action, both individually and on our behalf, against any of our officers or directors. This waiver limits the rights of shareholders to assert claims against our officers and directors for any action taken by an officer or director. It also limits the rights of shareholders to assert claims against officers for the failure of an officer or director to take any action in the performance of his or her duties, except with respect to any matter involving any willful negligence, willful default, fraud or dishonesty on the part of the officer or director. Our ability to pay dividends to shareholders and to pay corporate expenses may be adversely affected by the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us. As a holding company, our ability to make dividend payments, if any, and to pay corporate expenses will depend upon the receipt of dividends and other distributions from our operating subsidiaries. Our principal operating subsidiaries are BCP, Grupo Pacífico, ASB, Prima AFP and Credicorp Capital. If our subsidiaries do not have funds available, or are otherwise restricted from paying us dividends, we may be limited in our ability to pay dividends to shareholders. Currently, there are no restrictions on the ability of BCP, ASB, Grupo Pacífico, Prima AFP or Credicorp Capital to pay dividends abroad. In addition, our right to participate in the distribution of assets of any subsidiary, upon any subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization (and thus the ability of holders of our securities to benefit indirectly from such distribution), is subject to the prior claims of creditors of that subsidiary, except where we are considered an unsubordinated creditor of the subsidiary. Accordingly, our securities will effectively be subordinated to all existing and future liabilities of our subsidiaries, and holders of our securities should look only to our assets for payments. In addition, the value of any dividend paid by our operating subsidiaries that declare dividends in a currency different from Credicorp’s dividends (e.g. ASB, Banco de Crédito Bolivia, IM Trust, Credicorp Capital Colombia) is exposed to the impact of the depreciation of its dividend’s currency against Credicorp’s functional currency. This would have a negative impact on our ability to pay dividends to shareholders. Changes to banking regulations may adversely affect our operating performance and financial condition. Because we are subject to regulation and supervision in Peru, Bolivia, Colombia, Chile, the Cayman Islands, the United States of America, and Panama, changes to the regulatory framework in any of these countries or changes in tax laws could adversely affect our business. 18 We are mainly subject to extensive supervision and regulation through the SBS’s Banking and Insurance System Law (Ley General del Sistema Financiero y del Sistema de Seguros) and the Regulation of the Consolidated Supervision of Financial and Mixed Conglomerates (Reglamento para la Supervisión Consolidada de los Conglomerados Financieros y Mixtos). The SBS and the Peruvian Central Bank, supervise and regulate BCP’s operations. Peru’s constitution and the SBS’s statutory charter grant the SBS the authority to oversee and control banks and other financial institutions including pension funds and insurance companies. The SBS and the Peruvian Central Bank have general administrative responsibilities over BCP, including designation of capitalization and reserve requirements. In past years, the Peruvian Central Bank has, on numerous occasions, changed the deposit reserve requirements applicable to Peruvian commercial banks as well as the rate of interest paid on deposit reserves and the amount of deposit reserves on which no interest is payable by the Peruvian Central Bank . Such changes in the supervision and regulation of BCP may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. See “