ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition You should read carefully the following factors and all other information contained in this report. If any of the risks and uncertainties described below or elsewhere in this report actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and an investor may lose all or part of his investment. We may not be successful in growing either internally or through acquisitions. Our growth strategy primarily focuses on internal growth in domestic and international freight forwarding, local pick up and delivery, customs brokerage and truck brokerage and, to a lesser extent, on acquisitions. Our ability to grow will depend on a number of factors, including: - existing and emerging competition; - ability to open new terminals; - ability to operate profitably in the face of competitive pressures; - the recruitment, training and retention of operating and management employees; - the strength of demand for our services; - the ability to continue to develop advanced information systems; - the availability of capital to support our growth; and - the ability to identify, negotiate and fund acquisitions when appropriate. Acquisitions involve risks, including those relating to: - the integration of acquired businesses, including different information systems; - the retention of prior levels of business; - the retention of employees; - the diversion of management attention; - the amortization of acquired intangible assets; and - unexpected liabilities. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in implementing any of our business strategies or plans for future growth. Risks associated with operating in international markets could restrict our ability to expand globally and harm our business and prospects. We market and sell our services in the United States and internationally. We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenues for the foreseeable future. We presently conduct our international sales in the following geographic areas: North 16 America, Europe, Asia, Middle East, India, Africa, South America and South Pacific. Economic conditions, including those resulting from wars, civil unrest, acts of terrorism and other conflicts may adversely affect the global economy, our customers and their ability to pay for our services. There are numerous risks inherent in conducting our business internationally, including: - general political and economic instability in international markets, including heightened security measures, which could impede our ability to deliver our services to customers and adversely affect our results of operations; - changes in regulatory requirements, which could restrict our ability to deliver services to our international customers; - export restrictions, tariffs, licenses and other trade barriers, which could prevent us from adequately equipping our facilities worldwide; - differing technology standards across countries, which may impede our ability to integrate our services across international borders; - increased expenses associated with marketing services in foreign countries, which could affect our ability to compete; - difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; - the imposition of additional taxes in foreign jurisdictions; - complex foreign laws and treaties, which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business profitably; and - difficulties in collecting accounts receivable. These and other risks could impede our ability to manage our international operations effectively, limit the future growth of our business, increase our costs and require significant management attention. Events impacting the volume of international trade and international operations could adversely affect our international operations. Our international operations are directly related to and dependent on the volume of international trade, particularly trade between the United States and foreign nations. This trade, as well as our international operations, is influenced by many factors, including: - economic and political conditions in the United States and abroad; - major work stoppages; - difficulties in managing overseeing foreign operations; - exchange controls and currency fluctuations; - wars, civil unrest, acts of terrorism and other conflicts; and - United States and foreign laws relating to tariffs, trade restrictions, foreign investment and taxation. 17 Trade-related events beyond our control, such as a failure of various nations to reach or adopt international trade agreements or an increase in bilateral or multilateral trade restrictions, could have a material adverse effect on our international operations. As a U.S. government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement and other rules and regulations. To do business with government agencies, either directly as a contractor or indirectly as a subcontractor, we must comply with and are affected by many laws and regulations, including those relating to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. government contracts. These laws and regulations, among other things: - require, in some cases, certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations; - contain provisions that define allowable costs and otherwise govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based U.S. government contracts; and - restrict the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the exportation of certain products and technical data. These laws and regulations affect how we do business with our customers and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business. A violation of these laws and regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties or the termination of our contracts. In addition, the violation of certain other generally applicable laws and regulations could result in our suspension or debarment as a government contractor. In March 2006, we received notification from the U.S. Army’s Office of Suspension and Debarment that we were temporarily suspended from doing business with the government as a direct contractor or subcontractor effective February 27, 2006. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.” Fuel shortages and price volatility could adversely affect our business and operations. Our suppliers generally pass on increases in the price of fuel to us and we generally pass these price increases on to our customers through the imposition of a surcharge. We sometimes bear a portion of price increases over the short-term. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to impose such surcharges in the future. In addition, if fuel costs increase significantly, our customers may reduce the volume and frequency of cargo shipments or find other less costly alternatives for cargo delivery. The price of fuel is directly influenced by the price of crude oil and to a lesser extent by refining capacity relative to demand, which are influenced by a wide variety of macroeconomic and geopolitical events which are completely beyond our control. Additionally, hostilities in the Middle East and terrorist attacks in the U.S. and abroad could cause significant disruptions in the supply of crude oil and have had a significant impact on the price and availability of fuel. Our business is subject to seasonal trends. Historically, our operating results have been subject to seasonal trends, when measured on a quarterly basis. Typically, our first fiscal quarter is weaker when compared to our other fiscal quarters of the corresponding year. The seasonality of our business is a result of a variety of factors, including holiday seasons, consumer demand, economic conditions and other factors beyond our control. As we cannot predict or influence these factors, we cannot be certain that the seasonal trends will continue in future periods as they have in our historical operating patterns. Currency devaluations in the foreign markets in which we operate could decrease demand for our services. 18 We denominate some of our foreign sales in U.S. dollars. Consequently, decreases in the value of local currencies relative to the U.S. dollar in the markets in which we operate could adversely affect the demand for our services by increasing the price of our services in the currencies of the countries in which they are sold. Currency fluctuations in the foreign markets in which we operate could result in currency translation exchange gains or losses or could increase or decrease the book value of our net assets. Appreciation or depreciation in the value of local currencies relative to the U.S. dollar in the markets in which we operate will result in currency translation exchange gains or losses, which, if the appreciation or depreciation is significant, could be material. Additionally, the revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities of our international operations are denominated in each country’s local currency. As such, when the value of those revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are translated into U.S. dollars, foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations and the book value of our net assets. Our effective income tax rate will impact our results of operations, our cash flows and our profitability. As a global company, we generate taxable income in different countries throughout the world, with different effective income tax rates. Our future effective income tax rate will be impacted by a number of factors, including the geographical composition of our worldwide taxable income. If the United States or foreign tax authorities were to change applicable tax laws or successfully challenge the manner in which our income taxes are currently recognized, our effective income tax rate could increase, which would adversely impact our cash flow and profitability. If we fail to develop, deploy and integrate financial and operational information technology systems or if we fail to upgrade or replace our information technology systems to handle increased volumes and levels of complexity, meet the demands of our customers and protect against disruptions of our operations, our business may be seriously harmed. We are undertaking various initiatives to upgrade the information technology systems supporting our services in order to improve operational efficiencies and increase connectivity with our customers’ and trading partners’ systems in a timely and cost-effective manner. The failure of the hardware or software that supports our information technology systems, the loss of data contained in the systems, or the inability to access or interact with our customers electronically through our web site could significantly disrupt our operations, prevent customers from placing orders or cause us to lose customers. If our information technology systems are unable to manage additional volume for our operations as our business grows, our service levels and operating efficiency could decline. If we fail to hire and retain qualified personnel to implement, mai ntain and protect our information technology systems, or if we fail to upgrade our systems to meet demands of our customers, our business could be seriously harmed. If we fail to protect our confidential information, including our intellectual property rights, we may lose market share and our financial condition may be materially adversely affected. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and confidentiality procedures to protect our intellectual property rights and other confidential information. These protections may not be sufficient, and they do not prevent independent third parties from developing competitive products and services. A failure to protect our confidential information from unauthorized use or disclosure could diminish the value of our confidential information and our financial condition may be materially adversely affected. 19 Heightened security measures as a result of terrorist threats have created economic, political and regulatory uncertainties, some of which may materially harm our business and prospects and our ability to conduct business. The national and global responses to terrorist threats, including heightened security measures, may materially and adversely affect us in ways we cannot currently predict. Some of the possible future effects include reduced business activity by our customers, changes in security measures or regulatory requirements for air travel and reductions in available commercial flights that may increase our costs or make it more difficult for us to arrange for the transport of our customers’ freight and increased credit and business risk for customers in industries affected by heightened security measures and threats of additional terrorist attacks. Our ability to serve our customers depends on the availability of cargo space from other parties. Our ability to serve our customers depends on the availability of air and sea cargo space, including space on passenger and cargo airlines and ocean carriers that service the transportation lanes that we use. Shortages of cargo space are most likely to develop during holidays (with increased consumer spending) and in especially heavy transportation lanes (such as in Asia). In addition, available cargo space could be reduced as a result of decreases in the number of passenger airlines or ocean carriers serving particular transportation lanes at particular times. This could occur as a result of economic conditions, transportation strikes, regulatory changes and other factors beyond our control. Our future operating results could be adversely affected by significant shortages of suitable cargo space and associated changes in policies such as increas es in rates and the cost of fuel, taxes and labor charged by passenger airlines or ocean carriers for cargo space. We are subject to market pricing by our suppliers (airlines, ocean carriers, and trucking companies). If we are not able to pass these costs on to our customers, our profitability will be impacted. “Sell” rates to our major customers are normally agreed upon for the term of the contract, with provisions allowing for fuel, war and security surcharges. The prices we pay for cargo space with our major suppliers is dependent on our volumes and relationships with our suppliers. If our relationships deteriorate or there are changes in management with our suppliers or with us that negatively impact such relationships, we may be unable to negotiate similar rates with our suppliers for such cargo space. We may lose business to competitors. Competition within the freight industry is intense. We compete in North America primarily with fully integrated carriers and smaller freight-forwarders. Internationally, we compete primarily with the major European based freight forwarders, Expeditors International, DHL, BAX, UPS and other freight forwarders. We expect to encounter continued competition from those forwarders that have a predominantly international focus and have established international networks, including those based in the United States and Europe. We also expect to continue to encounter competition from other forwarders with nationwide networks, regional and local forwarders, passenger and cargo air carriers, trucking companies, cargo sales agents and brokers, and carriers and associations of shippers organized for the purpose of consolidating their members’ shipments to obtain lower freight rates from carriers. As a customs broker and ocean freight forwarder, we encounter strong competition in every port in which we do business, often competing with large domestic and foreign firms as well as local and regional firms. Our inability to compete successfully in our industry could cause us to lose customers or realize declines in the volume of our shipments. Our industry is consolidating and if we are unable to gain sufficient market presence in our industry, we may not be able to compete successfully against larger companies in our industry. 20 There has been an increasing trend in our industry toward consolidation of the niche players and larger companies, which are attempting to increase their global operations through the acquisition of freight forwarders and contract logistics providers. If we are unable to gain sufficient market share in our industry through internal growth, we may not be able to compete successfully against larger companies in our industry. Our success depends on the efforts of our founder and other key managers and personnel. Our founder, James R. Crane, continues to serve as Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors. We believe that our success is highly dependent on the continuing efforts of Mr. Crane and other executive officers and key employees, as well as our ability to attract and retain other skilled managers and personnel. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on us. If we are unable to limit our exposure to customers’ claims through contract terms and insurance coverage, we could be required to pay large amounts as compensation for their claims and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Typically, we limit our liability in contracts with our customers for loss or damage to their goods. However, as a freight forwarder, the airline or ocean carriers that we use generally assume the same responsibility to us as we assume to our customers. When we act in the capacity of an authorized agent for an air or ocean carrier, the carrier, rather than us, assumes liability for the safe delivery of the customer’s cargo to its ultimate destination. We have, from time to time, made payments to customers for claims related to our services. Should we experience an increase in the number of such claims or an increase in liability pursuant to claims or unfavorable resolution of claims, our results could be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will provide us with adequate coverage for such claims or t hat the maximum amount for which we are liable in connection with our services will not change in the future. In addition, significant increases in insurance costs as a result of claims arising from our services could reduce our profitability. We are subject to claims arising from our pick up and delivery operations. We use the services of thousands of drivers in connection with our local pick up and delivery operations. From time to time, these drivers are involved in accidents. Although most of these drivers are independent contractors, we could be held liable for their actions. Claims against us may exceed the amount of insurance coverage. A material increase in the frequency or severity of accidents, liability claims or workers’ compensation claims, or unfavorable resolutions of claims, could materially adversely affect us. In addition, significant increases in insurance costs as a result of these claims could reduce our profitability. We could incur additional expenses or taxes if the independent owner/operators we use in connection with our local pick up and delivery operations are found to be “employees” rather than “independent contractors.” The Internal Revenue Service, state authorities and other third parties have at times successfully asserted that independent owner/operators in the transportation industry, including those of the type we use in connection with our local pick up and delivery operations, are “employees” rather than “independent contractors.” Although we believe that the independent owner/operators we use are not employees, and have tailored our program specifically to avoid this categorization, the IRS, state authorities or others could challenge this position, and federal and state tax or other applicable laws, or interpretations of applicable laws, could change. If they do, we could incur additional employee benefit-related expenses and could be liable for additional taxes, penalties and interest for prior periods and additional taxes for future periods. Current and former pickup and delivery drivers have brought a 21 purported class action lawsuit claiming that they are employees and not independent contractors as described under “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” The failure of our policies and procedures which are designed to prevent the unlawful transportation or storage of hazardous, explosive or illegal materials could subject us to large fines, penalties or lawsuits. We are subject to a broad range of foreign and domestic (including state and local) environmental, health and safety and criminal laws and regulations, including those governing discharges into the air and water, the storage, handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste and the shipment of explosive or illegal substances. In the course of our operations, we may be asked to arrange for the storage or transportation of substances defined as hazardous under applicable laws. As is the case with any such operation, if a release of hazardous substances occurs on or from our facilities or from the transporter, we may be required to participate in the remedy of, or otherwise bear liability for, such release or be subject to claims from third parties whose property or person is injured by the release. In addition, if our employees arrange for the storage or transportation of hazardous, explosive or illegal materials in violation of applicable laws or regulations, we may face civil or criminal fines or penalties, including bans on making future shipments in particular geographic areas. In the event we are found to not be in compliance with applicable environmental, health and safety laws and regulations or there is a future finding that our policies and procedures fail to satisfy requisite minimum safeguards or otherwise do not comply with applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to large fines, penalties or lawsuits. Our failure to comply with governmental permit and licensing requirements could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating authorities, and changes in these requirements could adversely affect us. Our operations are subject to various state, local, federal and foreign regulations that in many instances require permits and licenses. Moreover, costs for security as a result of governmental regulations that have been and will be adopted in response to terrorist activities and potential terrorist activities, government deregulation efforts, “modernization” of the regulations governing customs clearance and changes in the international trade and tariff environment could require material expenditures or otherwise adversely affect us. We may not be able to pass these increased costs on to our customers in the form of rate increases or surcharges. We cannot predict what impact future regulations may have on our business. Our failure to maintain required permits or licenses, or to comply with applicable regulations, could result in substa ntial fines or revocation of our operating authorities. Our chairman beneficially owns approximately 17.6% of our outstanding common stock and has the greatest influence of any of our shareholders. James R. Crane beneficially owns approximately 17.6% of our outstanding common stock. Based on the ownership positions of our current shareholders, his ability to influence matters submitted to a vote of shareholders is greater than any other shareholder. Provisions of our charter, bylaws and shareholder rights plan and of Texas law may delay or prevent transactions that would benefit shareholders. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws and Texas law contain provisions that may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control. These provisions, among other things: - authorize our Board of Directors to set the terms of preferred stock; - provide that any shareholder who wishes to propose any business or to nominate a person or persons for the election as director at any meeting of shareholders may do so only if advance notice is given to our corporate secretary; 22 - restrict the ability of shareholders to take action by written consent; and - restrict our ability to engage in transactions with some 20% shareholders. Because of these provisions, persons considering unsolicited tender offers or other unilateral takeover proposals may be more likely to negotiate with our board of directors rather than pursue non-negotiated takeover attempts. In addition, we have adopted a shareholder rights plan that will cause substantial dilution to any person or group that attempts to acquire us without the approval of our board of directors. The provisions of our charter, bylaws and shareholder rights plan may make it more difficult for our shareholders to benefit from transactions that are opposed by an incumbent board of directors. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 