Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of or that we currently believe to be immaterial also may become important factors that affect us. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We compete with other subscription television service providers and traditional broadcasters, which could affect our ability to grow and increase our earnings and other operating metrics. We compete in the subscription television service industry against other DBS television providers, cable television and other system operators offering video, audio and data programming and entertainment services. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. Our earnings and other operating metrics could be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to compete successfully with these and other new providers of multi-channel video programming services. Cable television operators have a large, established customer base, and many cable operators have significant investments in programming. Cable television operators continue to leverage their incumbency advantages relative to satellite operators by, among other things, bundling their video service with 2-way high speed Internet access and telephone services. Cable television operators with analog systems are also able to provide service to multiple television sets within the same household at a lesser incremental cost to the consumer, and they are able to provide local and other programming in a larger number of geographic areas. As a result of these and other factors, we may not be able to continue to expand our subscriber base or compete effectively against cable television operators. Some digital cable platforms currently offer a VOD service that enables subscribers to choose from a library of programming selections for viewing at their convenience. We are continuing to develop our own VOD service experience through automatic video downloads to hard drives in certain of our satellite receivers, the inclusion of broadband connectivity components in certain of our satellite receivers, and other technologies. There can be no assurance that our VOD service will successfully compare with offerings from other video providers. News Corporation owns a 38.5% controlling interest in the DirecTV Group, Inc. (“DirecTV”). In December 2006, Liberty Media Corporation (“Liberty”) agreed to exchange its 16.3% stake in News Corporation for News Corporation’s stake in DirecTV, together with regional sports networks in Denver, Pittsburg and Seattle. The deal is expected to be completed during the second half of 2007. News Corporation and Liberty each have ownership interests in diverse world-wide programming content and other related businesses. These assets provide competitive advantages to DirecTV with respect to the acquisition of programming, content and other business opportunities valuable to our industry. In addition, DirecTV’s satellite receivers are sold in a significantly greater number of consumer electronics stores than ours. As a result of this and other factors, our services are less well known to consumers than those of DirecTV. Due to this relative lack of consumer awareness and other factors, we are at a competitive marketing disadvantage compared to DirecTV. DirecTV also offers exclusive programming, and may have access to discounts on programming, not available to us. DirecTV plans to launch two new satellites in 2007 in order to offer local and national channel programming in HD to most of the U.S. population. Although we have launched our own HD initiatives, if DirecTV fully implements these plans, they may have an additional competitive advantage. New entrants in the subscription satellite services business would have a competitive advantage over us in deploying some new products and technologies because of the substantial costs we may be required to incur to make new products or technologies available across our installed base of over 13 million subscribers. 21 Table of Contents Most areas of the United States can receive between three and 10 free over the air broadcast channels, including local content most consumers consider important. The FCC has allocated additional digital spectrum to these broadcasters, which can be used to transmit multiple additional programming channels. Our business could be adversely affected by increased program offerings by traditional broadcasters. New technologies could also have an adverse effect on the demand for our DBS services. For example, we face an increasingly significant competitive threat from the build-out of advanced fiber optic networks. Verizon Communications, Inc. (“Verizon”) and AT&T have begun deployment of fiber-optic networks that will allow them to offer video services bundled with traditional phone and high speed Internet directly to millions of homes. In addition, telephone companies and other entities are implementing and supporting digital video compression over existing telephone lines which may allow them to offer video services without having to build a new infrastructure. We also expect to face increasing competition from content and other providers who distribute video services directly to consumers over the Internet. With the large increase in the number of consumers with broadband service, a significant amount of video content has become available on the Internet for users to download and view on their personal computers and other devices. In addition, there are several initiatives by companies to make it easier to view Internet-based video on television and personal computer screens. We also could face competition from content and other providers who distribute video services directly to consumers via digital air waves. Mergers, joint ventures, and alliances among franchise, wireless or private cable television operators, telephone companies and others also may result in providers capable of offering television services in competition with us. Although we believe we currently offer consumers a compelling amount of HD programming content, other multi-channel video providers may be better equipped to increase their HD offerings to respond to increasing consumer demand for this content. For example, cable companies are able to offer local network channels in HD in more markets than we can, and DirecTV has announced that it will soon be able to offer over 150 channels of HD programming by satellite. We could be further disadvantaged to the extent a significant number of local broadcasters begin offering local channels in HD. We may be required to make substantial additional investments in infrastructure to respond to competitive pressure to deliver additional HD programming, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively compete with HD program offerings from other video providers. Increased subscriber turnover could harm our financial performance. Our future subscriber churn may be negatively impacted by a number of factors, including but not limited to, an increase in competition from existing competitors and new entrants offering more compelling promotions, as well as new advanced products and services. Competitor bundling of video services with 2-way high speed Internet access and telephone services may also contribute more significantly to churn over time. There can be no assurance that these and other factors will not contribute to relatively higher churn than we have experienced historically. Additionally, certain of our promotions allow consumers with relatively lower credit scores to become subscribers and these subscribers typically churn at a higher rate. However, these subscribers are also acquired at a lower cost resulting in a smaller economic loss upon disconnect. Additionally, as the size of our subscriber base increases, even if our churn percentage remains constant or declines, increasing numbers of gross new DISH Network subscribers are required to sustain net subscriber growth. Increases in theft of our signal, or our competitors’ signals, also could cause subscriber churn to increase in future periods. There can be no assurance that our existing security measures will not be compromised or that any future security measures we may implement will be effective in reducing theft of our programming signals. Increased subscriber acquisition and retention costs could adversely affect our financial performance. In addition to leasing receivers, we generally subsidize installation and all or a portion of the cost of EchoStar receiver systems in order to attract new DISH Network subscribers. Our costs to acquire subscribers, and to a lesser extent our subscriber retention costs, can vary significantly from period to period and can cause material variability to our net income (loss) and free cash flow. 22 Table of Contents In addition to new subscriber acquisition costs, we incur costs to retain existing subscribers. In an effort to reduce subscriber turnover, we offer existing subscribers a variety of options for upgraded and add on equipment. We generally lease receivers and subsidize installation of EchoStar receiver systems under these subscriber retention programs. We also upgrade or replace subscriber equipment periodically as technology changes. As a consequence, our retention and our capital expenditures related to our equipment lease program for existing subscribers will increase, at least in the short term, to the extent we subsidize the costs of those upgrades and replacements. Our capital expenditures related to subscriber retention programs could also increase in the future to the extent we increase penetration of our equipment lease program for existing subscribers, if we introduce other more aggressive promotions, if we offer existing subscribers more aggressive promotions for HD receivers or EchoStar receivers with other enhanced technologies, or for other reasons. Cash necessary to fund retention programs and total subscriber acquisition costs are expected to be satisfied from existing cash and marketable investment securities balances and cash generated from operations to the extent available. We may, however, decide to raise additional capital in the future to meet these requirements. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available on acceptable terms, or at all, if needed in the future. In addition, any material increase in subscriber acquisition or retention costs from current levels could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Satellite programming signals have been subject to theft, which could cause us to lose subscribers and revenue. Increases in theft of our signal, or our competitors’ signals, also could cause subscriber churn to increase in future periods. We use microchips embedded in credit card-sized access cards, called “smart cards,” or in security chips in our EchoStar receiver systems to control access to authorized programming content. Our signal encryption has been compromised by theft of service and could be further compromised in the future. We continue to respond to compromises of our encryption system with security measures intended to make signal theft of our programming more difficult. During 2005, we completed the replacement of our smart cards. While the smart card replacement did not fully secure our system, we continue to implement software patches and other security measures to help protect our service. There can be no assurance that our security measures will be effective in reducing theft of our programming signals. If we are required to replace existing smart cards, the cost could exceed $100.0 million. Our local programming strategy faces uncertainty. SHVIA generally gives satellite companies a statutory copyright license to retransmit local broadcast channels by satellite back into the market from which they originated, subject to obtaining the retransmission consent of the local network station. If we fail to reach retransmission consent agreements with broadcasters we cannot carry their signals. This could have an adverse effect on our strategy to compete with cable and other satellite companies which provide local signals. While we have been able to reach retransmission consent agreements with most local network stations in markets where we currently offer local channels by satellite, roll-out of local channels in additional cities will require that we obtain additional retransmission agreements. We cannot be sure that we will secure these agreements or that we will secure new agreements upon the expiration of our current retransmission consent agreements, some of which are short term. We depend on the Cable Act for access to others’ programming. We purchase a substantial percentage of our programming from cable-affiliated programmers. The Cable Act’s provisions prohibiting exclusive contracting practices with cable affiliated programmers are currently set to expire in October 2007. If those rules are not extended, many popular programs may become unavailable to us, causing a loss of customers and adversely affecting our revenues and financial performance. Any change in the Cable Act and the FCC’s rules that permit the cable industry or cable-affiliated programmers to discriminate against competing businesses, such as ours, in the sale of programming could adversely affect our ability to acquire programming at all or to acquire programming on a cost-effective basis. Further, the FCC generally has not shown a willingness to enforce the program access rules aggressively. As a result, we may be limited in our ability to obtain access (or nondiscriminatory access) to programming from programmers that are affiliated with the cable system operators. 23 Table of Contents Affiliates of certain cable providers have denied us access to sports programming they feed to their cable systems terrestrially, rather than by satellite. To the extent that cable operators deliver additional programming terrestrially in the future, they may assert that this additional programming is also exempt from the program access laws. These restrictions on our access to programming could materially and adversely affect our ability to compete in regions serviced by these cable providers. We depend on others to produce programming. We depend on third parties to provide us with programming services. Our programming agreements have remaining terms ranging from less than one to up to ten years and contain various renewal and cancellation provisions. We may not be able to renew these agreements on favorable terms or at all, and these agreements may be canceled prior to expiration of their original term. If we are unable to renew any of these agreements or the other parties cancel the agreements, we cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain substitute programming, or that such substitute programming would be comparable in quality or cost to our existing programming. In addition, programming costs may continue to increase. We may be unable to pass programming costs on to our customers which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face increasing competition from other distributors of foreign language programming. We face increasing competition from other distributors of foreign language programming, including programming distributed over the Internet. There can be no assurance that we will continue to experience growth in subscribers to our foreign-language programming services. In addition, the increasing availability of foreign language programming from our competitors, which in certain cases has resulted from our inability to renew programming agreements on an exclusive basis or at all, could contribute to an increase in our subscriber churn. Our agreements with distributors of foreign language programming have varying expiration dates, and some agreements are on a month-to-month basis. There can be no assurance that we will be able to renew these agreements on acceptable terms or at all. We may not be aware of certain foreign government regulations. Because regulatory schemes vary by country, we may be subject to regulations in foreign countries of which we are not presently aware. If that were to be the case, we could be subject to sanctions by a foreign government that could materially and adversely affect our ability to operate in that country. We cannot assure you that any current regulatory approvals held by us are, or will remain, sufficient in the view of foreign regulatory authorities, or that any additional necessary approvals will be granted on a timely basis or at all, in all jurisdictions in which we wish to operate new satellites, or that applicable restrictions in those jurisdictions will not be unduly burdensome. The failure to obtain the authorizations necessary to operate satellites internationally could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue and our overall competitive position. We, our customers and companies with which we do business may be required to have authority from each country in which we or they provide services or provide our customers use of our satellites. Because regulations in each country are different, we may not be aware if some of our customers and/or companies with which we do business do not hold the requisite licenses and approvals. We are subject to significant regulatory oversight and changes in applicable regulatory requirements could adversely affect our business. DBS operators are subject to significant government regulation, primarily by the FCC and, to a certain extent, by Congress, other federal agencies and international, state and local authorities. Depending upon the circumstances, noncompliance with legislation or regulations promulgated by these entities could result in the suspension or revocation of our licenses or registrations, the termination or loss of contracts or the imposition of contractual damages, civil fines or criminal penalties any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. You should review the regulatory disclosures under the caption “Item 1. Business — Government Regulation — FCC Regulation under the Communication Act, Other Communications Act Provisions” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 24 Table of Contents During April 2006, a Texas jury concluded that certain of our digital video recorders, or DVRs, infringed a patent held by Tivo. If the verdict is upheld on appeal and we are not able to successfully implement alternative technology, we could be prohibited from distributing DVRs, or be required to modify or eliminate certain user-friendly DVR features that we currently offer to consumers. If the Tivo jury verdict is upheld on appeal, we could be required to pay substantial damages, and if we were not able to successfully implement alternative technology (including the successful defense of any challenge that such technology infringes Tivo’s patent), we could also be prohibited from distributing DVRs, or be required to modify or eliminate certain user-friendly DVR features that we currently offer to consumers. In that event we would be at a significant disadvantage to our competitors who could offer this functionality and, while we would attempt to provide that functionality through other manufacturers, the adverse affect on our business could be material. We currently have no commercial insurance coverage on the satellites we own. We do not use commercial insurance to mitigate the potential financial impact of in-orbit failures because we believe that the premium costs are uneconomical relative to the risk of satellite failure. We believe we generally have in-orbit satellite capacity sufficient to recover, in a relatively short time frame, transmission of most of our critical programming in the event one of our in-orbit satellites fails. We could not, however, recover certain local markets, international and other niche programming. Further, programming continuity cannot be assured in the event of multiple satellite losses. We currently do not have adequate backup satellite capacity to recover all of the local network channels broadcast from our EchoStar X satellite following a complete failure of that satellite. Therefore, our ability to deliver local channels in many markets, as well as our ability to comply with SHVERA requirements without incurring significant additional costs, is dependent on, among other things, the continued successful commercial operation of EchoStar X. We also depend on EchoStar VIII to provide service to CONUS at least until such time as our EchoStar XI satellite has commenced commercial operation, which is currently expected during the second half of 2008. AMC-14, which is expected to commence commercial operation in early 2008, also has the capability to act as a backup for EchoStar VIII and could be launched to the 110 degree orbital location, if necessary. In the event that EchoStar VIII experienced a total or substantial failure, we could transmit many, but not all, of those channels from other in-orbit satellites. Our satellites are subject to risks related to launch. Satellite launches are subject to significant risks, including launch failure, incorrect orbital placement or improper commercial operation. Certain launch vehicles that may be used by us have either unproven track records or have experienced launch failures in the past. The risks of launch delay and failure are usually greater when the launch vehicle does not have a track record of previous successful flights. Launch failures result in significant delays in the deployment of satellites because of the need both to construct replacement satellites, which can take more than two years, and to obtain other launch opportunities. Such significant delays could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. If we were unable to obtain launch insurance, or obtain launch insurance at rates we deem commercially reasonable, and a significant launch failure were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues and fund future satellite procurement and launch opportunities. In addition, the occurrence of future launch failures may materially and adversely affect our ability to insure the launch of our satellites at commercially reasonable premiums, if at all. Please see further discussion under the caption “We currently have no commercial insurance coverage on our satellites” above. Our satellites are subject to significant operational risks. Satellites are subject to significant operational risks while in orbit. These risks include malfunctions, commonly referred to as anomalies, that have occurred in our satellites and the satellites of other operators as a result of various factors, such as satellite manufacturers’ errors, problems with the power systems or control systems of the satellites and general failures resulting from operating satellites in the harsh environment of space. 25 Table of Contents Although we work closely with the satellite manufacturers to determine and eliminate the cause of anomalies in new satellites and provide for redundancies of many critical components in the satellites, we may experience anomalies in the future, whether of the types described above or arising from the failure of other systems or components. Any single anomaly or series of anomalies could materially and adversely affect our operations and revenues and our relationship with current customers, as well as our ability to attract new customers for our direct broadcast satellites and other satellite services. In particular, future anomalies may result in the loss of individual transponders on a satellite, a group of transponders on that satellite or the entire satellite, depending on the nature of the anomaly. Anomalies may also reduce the expected useful life of a satellite, thereby reducing the revenue that could be generated by that satellite, or create additional expenses due to the need to provide replacement or back-up satellites. Finally, the occurrence of anomalies may materially and adversely affect our ability to insure our satellites at commercially reasonable premiums, if at all. You should review the disclosures relating to satellite anomalies set forth under Note 4 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Meteoroid events pose a potential threat to all in-orbit satellites. The probability that meteoroids will damage those satellites increases significantly when the Earth passes through the particulate stream left behind by comets. Occasionally, increased solar activity also poses a potential threat to all in-orbit satellites. Some decommissioned spacecraft are in uncontrolled orbits which pass through the geostationary belt at various points, and present hazards to operational spacecraft, including our satellites. We may be required to perform maneuvers to avoid collisions and these maneuvers may prove unsuccessful or could reduce the useful life of the satellite through the expenditure of fuel to perform these maneuvers. The loss, damage or destruction of any of our satellites as a result of an electrostatic storm, collision with space debris, malfunction or other event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our satellites have minimum design lives of 12 years, but could fail or suffer reduced capacity before then. Our ability to earn revenue depends on the usefulness of our satellites. Each satellite has a limited useful life. A number of factors affect the useful lives of the satellites, including, among other things, the quality of their construction, the durability of their component parts, the ability to continue to maintain proper orbit and control over the satellite’s functions, the efficiency of the launch vehicle used, and the remaining on-board fuel following orbit insertion. Generally, the minimum design life of each of our satellites is 12 years. We can provide no assurance, however, as to the actual useful lives of the satellites. In the event of a failure or loss of any of our satellites, we may relocate another satellite and use it as a replacement for the failed or lost satellite, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Such a relocation would require FCC approval and, among other things, a showing to the FCC that the replacement satellite would not cause additional interference compared to the failed or lost satellite. We cannot be certain that we could obtain such FCC approval. If we choose to use a satellite in this manner, this use could adversely affect our ability to meet the operation deadlines associated with our authorizations. Failure to meet those deadlines could result in the loss of such authorizations, which would have an adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues. We have made substantial capital commitments to acquire additional satellite capacity and do not have firm business plans for some of this capacity; our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if we are not able to utilize all of this additional capacity. We are significantly increasing our satellite capacity as a result of the agreements discussed above and other satellite service agreements currently under negotiation. While we are currently evaluating various opportunities to make profitable use of this capacity (including, but not limited to, increasing our international programming and other services, expanding our local and HD programming, offering fixed satellite service capacity on a wholesale commercial basis (rather than direct to consumers) and supplying satellite capacity for new international ventures), we do not have firm plans to utilize all of the additional satellite capacity we expect to acquire. In addition, there can be no assurance that we can successfully develop the business opportunities we currently plan to pursue with this additional capacity. Future costs associated with this additional capacity will negatively impact our margins if 26 Table of Contents we do not have sufficient growth in subscribers or in demand for new programming or services to generate revenue to offset the costs of this increased capacity. Complex technology used in our business could become obsolete. Our operating results are dependent to a significant extent upon our ability to continue to introduce new products and services on a timely basis and to reduce costs of our existing products and services. We may not be able to successfully identify new product or service opportunities or develop and market these opportunities in a timely or cost-effective manner. The success of new product development depends on many factors, including proper identification of customer need, cost, timely completion and introduction, differentiation from offerings of competitors and market acceptance. Technology in the subscription television and satellite services industries changes rapidly as new technologies are developed, which could cause our services and products to become obsolete. We and our suppliers may not be able to keep pace with technological developments. If the new technologies on which we intend to focus our research and development investments fail to achieve acceptance in the marketplace, we could suffer a material adverse effect on our future competitive position that could cause a reduction in our revenues and earnings. We may also be at a competitive disadvantage in developing and introducing complex new products and technologies because of the substantial costs we may incur in making these products or technologies available across our installed base of over 13 million subscribers. For example, our competitors could be the first to obtain proprietary technologies that are perceived by the market as being superior. Further, after we have incurred substantial research and development costs, one or more of the technologies under our development, or under development by one or more of our strategic partners, could become obsolete prior to its introduction. In addition, delays in the delivery of components or other unforeseen problems in our DBS system or other satellite services may occur that could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate revenue, offer new services and remain competitive. Technological innovation is important to our success and depends, to a significant degree, on the work of technically skilled employees. Competition for the services of these types of employees is vigorous. We may not be able to attract and retain these employees. If we are unable to attract and maintain technically skilled employees, our competitive position could be materially and adversely affected. We rely on key personnel. We believe that our future success will depend to a significant extent upon the performance of Charles W. Ergen, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and certain other executives. The loss of Mr. Ergen or of certain other key executives could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although all of our executives have executed agreements limiting their ability to work for or consult with competitors if they leave us, we do not have employment agreements with any of them. We are controlled by one principal stockholder. Charles W. Ergen, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, currently beneficially owns approximately 49.1% of our total equity securities and possesses approximately 76.8% of the total voting power. Thus, Mr. Ergen has the ability to elect a majority of our directors and to control all other matters requiring the approval of our stockholders. As a result of Mr. Ergen’s voting power, ECC is a “controlled company” as defined in the Nasdaq listing rules and is, therefore, not subject to Nasdaq requirements that would otherwise require us to have (i) a majority of independent directors; (ii) a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors; (iii) compensation of our executive officers determined by a majority of the independent directors or a compensation committee composed solely of independent directors; and (iv) director nominees selected, or recommended for the Board’s selection, either by a majority of the independent directors or a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors. 27 Table of Contents Our business depends substantially on FCC licenses that can expire or be revoked or modified and applications that may not be granted. If the FCC were to cancel, revoke, suspend or fail to renew any of our licenses or authorizations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Specifically, loss of a frequency authorization would reduce the amount of spectrum available to us, potentially reducing the amount of programming and other services available to our subscribers. The materiality of such a loss of authorizations would vary based upon, among other things, the location of the frequency used or the availability of replacement spectrum. In addition, Congress often considers and enacts legislation that could affect us, and FCC proceedings to implement the Communications Act and enforce its regulations are ongoing. We cannot predict the outcomes of these legislative or regulatory proceedings or their effect on our business. Our business relies on intellectual property, some of which is owned by third parties, and we may inadvertently infringe their patents and proprietary rights. Many entities, including some of our competitors, have or may in the future obtain patents and other intellectual property rights that cover or affect products or services related to those that we offer. In general, if a court determines that one or more of our products infringes on intellectual property held by others, we may be required to cease developing or marketing those products, to obtain licenses from the holders of the intellectual property at a material cost, or to redesign those products in such a way as to avoid infringing the patent claims. If those intellectual property rights are held by a competitor, we may be unable to obtain the intellectual property at any price, which could adversely affect our competitive position. Please see further discussion under Item 1. Business — Patents and Trademarks of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We depend on other telecommunications providers, independent retailers and others to solicit orders for DISH network services. While we offer receiver systems and programming directly, a majority of our new subscriber acquisitions are generated by independent businesses offering our products and services, including small satellite retailers, direct marketing groups, local and regional consumer electronics stores, nationwide retailers, telecommunications providers and others. If we are unable to continue our arrangements with these resellers, we cannot guarantee that we would be able to obtain other sales agents, thus adversely affecting our business. We have substantial debt outstanding and may incur additional debt As of December 31, 2006, our total debt, including the debt of our subsidiaries, was $6.967 billion. On February 15, 2007, we redeemed all of our outstanding 5 3/4% Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2008 which decreased our total debt by $1.0 billion. Our debt levels could have significant consequences, including: • making it more difficult to satisfy our obligations; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic conditions, including changes in interest rates; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; • requiring us to devote a substantial portion of our available cash and cash flow to make interest and principal payments on our debt, thereby reducing the amount of available cash for other purposes; • limiting our financial and operating flexibility in responding to changing economic and competitive conditions; and • placing us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. 28 Table of Contents In addition, we may incur substantial additional debt in the future. The terms of the indentures relating to our senior notes permit us to incur additional debt. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the risks we now face could intensify. We may need additional capital, which may not be available, in order to continue growing, to increase earnings and to make payments on our debt. Our ability to increase earnings and to make interest and principal payments on our debt will depend in part on our ability to continue growing our business by maintaining and increasing our subscriber base. This may require significant additional capital that may not be available to us. Funds necessary to meet subscriber acquisition and retention costs are expected to be satisfied from existing cash and marketable investment securities balances and cash generated from operations to the extent available. We may, however, decide to raise additional capital in the future to meet these requirements. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available on acceptable terms, or at all, if needed in the future. In addition to our DBS business plan, we have contracts to construct, and conditional licenses and pending FCC applications for, a number of FSS Ku-band, Ka-band and extended Ku-band satellites. We may need to raise additional capital to construct, launch, and insure satellites and complete these systems and other satellites we may in the future apply to operate. We also periodically evaluate various strategic initiatives, the pursuit of which also could require us to raise significant additional capital. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. We also have substantial satellite-related payment obligations under our various satellite service agreements. We may be unable to manage rapidly expanding operations. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. To manage our growth effectively, we must, among other things, continue to develop our internal and external sales forces, installation capability, customer service operations and information systems, and maintain our relationships with third party vendors. We also need to continue to expand, train and manage our employee base, and our management personnel must assume even greater levels of responsibility. If we are unable to continue to manage growth effectively, we may experience a decrease in subscriber growth and an increase in churn, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot be certain that we will sustain profitability. Due to the substantial expenditures necessary to complete construction, launch and deployment of our DBS system and to obtain and service DISH Network customers, we have in the past sustained significant losses. If we do not have sufficient income or other sources of cash, our ability to service our debt and pay our other obligations could be affected. While we had net income of $608.3 million, $1.515 billion and $214.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, we may not be able to sustain this profitability. Improvements in our results of operations will depend largely upon our ability to increase our customer base while maintaining our price structure, effectively managing our costs and controlling churn. We cannot assure you that we will be effective with regard to these matters. We depend on few manufacturers, and in some cases a single manufacturer, for many components of consumer premises equipment; we may be adversely affected by product shortages. We depend on relatively few sources, and in some cases a single source, for many components of the consumer premises equipment that we provide to subscribers in order to deliver our digital television services. Product shortages and resulting installation delays could cause us to lose potential future subscribers to our DISH Network service. 29 Table of Contents We could be exposed to significant financial losses if our international business ventures are unsuccessful. We have entered into certain strategic transactions in Asia, and we may increase our strategic investment activity in these and other international markets. These investments, which we expect could become substantial over time, involve a high degree of risk and could expose us to significant financial losses if the underlying ventures are not successful. These risks include, among other things, the risks that required regulatory approvals may not be obtained, that we may not be able to enter into necessary distribution and other relationships, and that the companies in which we invest or with whom we partner may not be able to compete effectively in these markets or that there may be insufficient demand for the new services planned for these markets. We cannot assure you that there will not be deficiencies leading to material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. We periodically evaluate and test our internal control over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. This evaluation and testing of internal control over financial reporting includes internal control over financial reporting relating to our operations. Although our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2006, if in the future we are unable to report that our internal control over financial reporting is effective (or if our auditors do not agree with our assessment of the effectiveness of, or are unable to express an opinion on, our internal control over financial reporting), investors, customers and business partners could lose confidence in the accuracy of our financial reports, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 30 Table of Contents 