Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following factors, together with all the other information included in this 2011 Form 10-K, in evaluating our Company and our business. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected, and the value of our stock could decline. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently 8 Table of Contents believe may materially affect our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. As such, you should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. Risks Related to the State of Our Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, the Restatement of Our Financial Statements and Our Failure to Timely File Periodic Reports with the SEC. Our Audit Committee and management have identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, and we may be unable to develop, implement and maintain appropriate controls in future periods. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and SEC rules require that management report annually on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures. Among other things, management must conduct an assessment of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to audit, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Based on our management’s assessment, we believe that, as of December 31, 2011, our internal controls over financial reporting were not effective. The specific material weaknesses are described in Part II—Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures” of this 2011 Form 10-K in “Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting”. A “material weakness” is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim consolidated financial statements would not be prevented or detected. We have adopted a remediation plan to address the material weaknesses identified. The implementation and administration of the remediation plan may divert the attention of our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), as well as senior members of our finance and accounting departments away from the operations of our business until all material weaknesses in our internal control are considered remediated. The material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011 were identified in connection with our determinations in December 2011 and March 2012 that our previously issued consolidated financial statements required restatement to correct material errors included therein. Similarly, there were material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, which were identified in connection with our determination in July 2010 that our previously issued consolidated financial statements required restatement to correct material errors. We cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in additional material weaknesses, or could result in material misstatements in our financial statements. These misstatements could result in a further restatement of financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price. Further and continued determinations that there are material weaknesses in the effectiveness of our internal controls could also reduce our ability to obtain financing or could increase the cost of any financing we obtain and require additional expenditures of both money and management’s time to comply with applicable requirements. For more information relating to our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, see Part II—Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures” of this 2011 Form 10-K. Our failure to prepare and timely file our periodic reports with the SEC limits our access to the public markets to raise debt or equity capital. We did not file this 2011 Form 10-K, nor our Form 10-Q for the third quarter of 2011, within the timeframe required by the SEC. Because of our late filing, we may be limited in our ability to access the public markets to raise debt or equity capital, which could prevent us from pursuing transactions or implementing business strategies that we believe would be beneficial to our business. Until twelve months after the month in which we regain compliance with our SEC reporting obligations, we will be ineligible to use shorter and less costly filings, such as Form S-3, to register our securities for sale. We may use Form S-1 to register a sale of our stock to raise capital or complete acquisitions, but doing so would likely increase transaction costs and adversely impact our ability to raise capital or complete acquisitions of other companies in a timely manner. 9 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Pending SEC Investigation and Pending Litigation The SEC’s formal investigation and pending putative securities class action and derivative litigation have resulted in significant costs and expenses, have diverted resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. As further described in Part I—Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” of this 2011 Form 10-K, on March 10, 2010 we were advised by the staff of the SEC Enforcement Division that the SEC had commenced a formal investigation. This investigation is ongoing and we are cooperating fully with the SEC in connection with these matters. As also further described in Part I—Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” of this 2011 Form 10-K, several lawsuits, including two putative shareholder class action complaints (that have since been consolidated into one action) and three putative derivative complaints, have been filed against us and certain of our current and former officers and directors arising out of our announcement of the Audit Committee investigation and related matters. In addition, there is the possibility that new legal claims may be brought as a result of the current restatement reflected in this 2011 Form 10-K. We have incurred significant professional fees and other costs in responding to the SEC investigation and in defending against the lawsuits and possible new claims. We expect to continue to incur significant professional fees and other costs in responding to the SEC investigation and in defending against these lawsuits. If we do not prevail in one or more of these lawsuits, we may be required to pay a significant amount of monetary damages. Further, if the SEC were to conclude that enforcement action is appropriate, we could be required to pay large civil penalties and fines. The SEC also could impose other sanctions against us or certain of our current and former directors and officers. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Additionally, while we believe we have made appropriate judgments in determining the correct adjustments in preparing our restated consolidated financial statements, the SEC may disagree with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported these adjustments. Accordingly, there is a risk that we may have to further restate our historical consolidated financial statements, amend prior filings with the SEC or take other actions not currently contemplated. In addition, our Board of Directors, management and employees have expended a substantial amount of time on the SEC investigation and pending litigation, diverting a significant amount of resources and attention that would otherwise be directed toward our operations and implementation of our business strategy, all of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our indemnification obligations and limitations of our director and officer liability insurance may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Under Oregon law, our articles of incorporation and bylaws and certain indemnification agreements to which we are a party, we have an obligation to indemnify, or we have otherwise agreed to indemnify, certain of our current and former directors and officers with respect to current and future investigations and litigation, including the matters discussed in Part I—Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.” In connection with some of these pending matters, we are required to, or we have otherwise agreed to, advance, and have advanced, legal fees and related expenses to certain of our current and former directors and officers and expect to continue to do so while these matters are pending. Certain of these obligations may not be “covered matters” under our directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, or there may be insufficient coverage available. Further, in the event the directors and officers are ultimately determined to not be entitled to indemnification, we may not be able to recover the amounts we previously advanced to them. In addition, we have incurred significant expenses in connection with the pending SEC investigation and litigation. We cannot provide any assurances that pending claims, or claims yet to arise, will not exceed the limits of our insurance policies, that such claims are covered by the terms of our insurance policies or that our insurance carrier will be able to cover our claims. The insurers also may seek to deny or limit coverage in some or all of these matters. Furthermore, the insurers could become insolvent and unable to fulfill their obligation to defend, pay or reimburse us for insured claims. Accordingly, we cannot be sure that claims will not arise that are in excess of the limits of our insurance or that are not covered by the terms of our insurance policy. Due to these coverage limitations, we may incur significant unreimbursed costs to satisfy our indemnification obligations, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 10 Table of Contents Continuing negative publicity may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. As a result of the ongoing SEC investigation and shareholder and derivative litigation and related matters, we have been the subject of negative publicity. This negative publicity may adversely affect our stock price and may harm our reputation and our relationships with current and future investors, lenders, customers, suppliers and employees. As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Financial Condition Our significant debt obligations and the restrictions under which we operate as a result of our debt obligations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We have financed our operations through cash flows from operations, available borrowings and other financing arrangements. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $95.5 million of outstanding debt and capital lease obligations. Our debt and our debt service obligations could: • limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital or other purposes in the future; • reduce the amount of funds available to finance our operations, capital expenditures and other activities; • increase our vulnerability to economic downturns, illiquid capital markets, and adverse industry conditions; • limit our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions, including increased competition; • place us at a disadvantage when compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • with respect to our borrowings that bear interest at variable rates, cause us to be vulnerable to increases in interest rates. Our ability to make scheduled payments on our debt will depend on our future operating performance and cash flows, which are subject to prevailing economic conditions, prevailing interest rate levels and other financial, competitive and business factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our inability to make scheduled payments on our debt or any of the foregoing factors would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. We will need to substantially increase working capital as market conditions and customer order levels improve. As market conditions and customer order levels improve we will have to increase our working capital substantially, as it will take several months for new orders to be translated into cash receipts. In general, availability under our credit agreement is limited to $125 million as of December 31, 2011. Effective as of March 29, 2012, we have entered into the most recent amendments to our debt instruments which are described in Note 17 “Subsequent Events” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II—Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”. These amendments will set the aggregate commitment of the lenders under our credit agreement at $115 million. We may not have sufficient availability under this agreement to borrow the amounts we need, and other opportunities to borrow additional funds or raise capital in the equity markets may be limited or nonexistent. A shortage in the availability of working capital would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Our failure to comply with covenants in our debt instruments could result in our indebtedness being immediately due and payable, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The agreements governing our outstanding debt include financial and other restrictive covenants that impose certain requirements with respect to our financial condition 11 Table of Contents and results of operations and general business activities. These covenants require us to maintain certain financial ratios and place restrictions on, among other things, our ability to incur certain additional debt and to create liens or other encumbrances on assets. Effective as of March 29, 2012, we have entered into the most recent amendments to our debt instruments which are described in Note 17 “Subsequent Events” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II—Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”. These amendments made certain changes in the definition, method of calculation and amounts of certain covenants. Our ability to comply with the financial and other covenants under our debt instruments in the future is uncertain and will be affected by our results of operations and financial condition as well as other events and circumstances beyond our control. If market and other economic conditions do not improve, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. A failure to comply with the requirements of these covenants, if not waived or cured, could permit acceleration of the related debt and acceleration of debt under other instruments that include cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. If any of our debt is accelerated, we cannot assure you that we would have sufficient assets to repay such debt or that we would be able to refinance such debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The acceleration of a significant portion of our debt would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Disruptions in the financial markets and the general economic slowdown could cause us to be unable to obtain financing and expose us to risks related to the overall macro-economic environment, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The United States equity and credit markets have experienced significant price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions, which have caused market prices of many equities to fluctuate substantially and the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. These circumstances have materially impacted liquidity in the financial markets, making terms for certain financings less attractive, and in some cases have resulted in the unavailability of financing, even for companies who are otherwise qualified to obtain financing. These events may make it less likely that we will be able to obtain additional financing and also may make it more difficult or prohibitively costly for us to raise capital through the issuance of debt or equity securities. Risks Related to our Business The success of our business is affected by general economic conditions, and our business may be adversely affected by an economic slowdown or recession. Periods of economic slowdown or recession in the United States, or the public perception that one may occur, have and could further decrease the demand for our products, affect the price of our products and adversely impact our business. We have been impacted in the past by the general slowing of the economy, and the economic slowdown has had an adverse impact on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In particular, our Tubular Products Group is exposed to the energy exploration, non-residential construction, and agriculture markets, and a significant downturn in any one of these markets could cause a reduction in our revenues that could be difficult to offset. Our exposure to the energy market is growing. Products serving the energy market, including line pipe and OCTG, comprised over 80% of the backlog in the Tubular Products Group at December 31, 2011. Sales of these products are tied to the exploration, development, and production of natural gas and oil reserves. Factors affecting the profitability of exploration and production of hydrocarbons such as the price of oil and gas will have an effect on the market for energy pipe products. The current outlook remains consistent with stable levels of exploration and production activity, but a decline in this activity could adversely affect our business. The energy market has a history of extreme volatility, and for 2011, sales of our energy pipe products increased by 74% compared to 2010 while sales of our energy pipe products increased by 595% in 2010 compared to 2009. We cannot provide assurance that there will not be similar volatility in the future, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. 12 Table of Contents We depend on third party processors to provide finishing services on certain of our energy market products. Certain products supplied to the OCTG market require finishing services currently provided by third parties to finish the pipe to customer specifications. These finishing operations include but are not limited to threading, inspection, testing and heat treating. Our dependency on these processors has increased along with our increased production of OCTG products. Because we cannot perform these processes internally, our inability to secure production time at these processors could negatively impact our revenues from the energy market. Increased levels of imports could adversely affect pricing and demand for our products serving the energy market. Although certain imported steel products from China have been curtailed by anti-dumping duties, imported products from other countries have increased, notably from Canada and Italy, and imports from Korea and India continue to command significant market share. Any increase in imports of steel products that compete with our products serving the energy market could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. A downturn in government spending related to public water transmission projects would adversely affect our business. Our Water Transmission business accounted for approximately 53% of our net sales in 2011. Our Water Transmission business is primarily dependent upon spending on public water transmission projects, including water infrastructure upgrades, repairs and replacement and new water infrastructure spending, which, in turn, depends on, among other things: • the need for new or replacement infrastructure; • the priorities placed on various projects by governmental entities; • federal, state and local government spending levels, including budgetary constraints related to capital projects and the ability to obtain financing; and • the ability of governmental entities to obtain environmental approvals, right-of-way permits and other required approvals and permits. Decreases in the number of, or government funding of, public water transmission projects would adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Project delays in public water transmission projects could adversely affect our business. The public water agencies constructing water transmission projects generally announce the projects well in advance of the bidding and construction process. It is not unusual for projects to be delayed and rescheduled. Projects are delayed and rescheduled for a number of reasons, including changes in project priorities, difficulties in complying with environmental and other government regulations and additional time required to acquire rights-of-way or property rights. Delays in public water transmission projects may occur with too little notice to allow us to replace those projects in our manufacturing schedules. As a result, our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows may be adversely affected by unplanned downtime. We operate in highly competitive industries, and increased competition could reduce our gross profit and net income. We face significant competition in all of our businesses. We have recently seen new domestic and foreign competitors bidding on projects. Orders in the water transmission business are competitively bid, and price competition can be vigorous. Price competition may reduce the gross margin on sales, which may adversely affect overall profitability. Other competitive factors include timely delivery, ability to meet customized specifications and high freight costs. Although our Water Transmission manufacturing facilities in Oregon, Colorado, California, West Virginia, Texas, Utah and Mexico allow us to compete throughout the United States, Canada and Mexico, we cannot assure you that new or existing competitors will not establish new facilities or expand capacity within our market areas. New or expanded facilities or new competitors could have a material adverse effect on our market share and product pricing in our water transmission business. There are many competitors in the Tubular Products business, and price is often a prime consideration for purchase of our products. Price competition may reduce our gross profit, which may adversely affect our net income. Some of 13 Table of Contents our competitors have greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully with our competitors. Failure to compete successfully could reduce our gross profit and net income, as well as have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Operating problems in our business could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our manufacturing operations are subject to typical hazards and risks relating to the manufacture of similar products such as: • explosions, fires, inclement weather and natural disasters; • mechanical failure; • unscheduled downtime; • labor difficulties; • loss of process control and quality; • disruptions to supply; • raw materials quality defects; • service provider delays or failures; • transportation delays or failures; • an inability to obtain or maintain required licenses or permits; and • environmental hazards such as chemical spills, discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases into the environment or workplace. The occurrence of any of these operating problems at our facilities may have a material adverse effect on the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility or on our operations as a whole, during and after the period of these operating difficulties. These operating problems may also cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment, and environmental damage. In addition, individuals could seek damages for alleged personal injury or property damage. Furthermore, we could be subject to present and future claims with respect to workplace injury, exposure to hazardous materials, workers’ compensation and other matters. Although we maintain property and casualty insurance of the types and in the amounts that we believe are customary for our industries, we cannot assure you that our insurance coverage will be adequate for liability that may be ultimately incurred or that such coverage will continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. Any claims that result in liability exceeding our insurance coverage could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our Water Transmission business faces competition from concrete, ductile iron, polyvinyl chloride (“PVC”) and high density polyethylene (“HDPE”) pipe manufacturers. Water transmission pipe is manufactured generally from steel, concrete, HDPE, PVC or ductile iron. Each pipe material has advantages and disadvantages. Steel and concrete are more common materials for larger diameter water transmission pipelines because ductile iron pipe generally is limited in diameter due to the manufacturing process. The public agencies and engineers who determine the specifications for water transmission projects analyze these pipe materials for suitability for each project. Individual project circumstances normally dictate the preferred material. If we experience cost increases in raw materials, labor and overhead specific to our industry or the location of our facilities, while competing products or companies do not experience similar changes, we could experience an adverse change in the demand, price and profitability of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 14 Table of Contents Our quarterly results of operations are subject to significant fluctuation. Our net sales and operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, including: • the commencement, completion or termination of contracts during any particular quarter; • unplanned down time due to project delays or mechanical failure; • underutilized capacity or factory productivity; • the seasonal variation in demand for tubular products; • adverse weather conditions; • fluctuations in the cost of steel and other raw materials; and • competitive pressures. Results of operations in any period are not indicative of results for any future period, and comparisons between any two periods may not be meaningful. We depend on our senior management team, and the loss of any member could adversely affect our operations. Our success depends on the management and leadership skills of our senior management team. The loss of any of these individuals, or our inability to attract, retain and maintain additional personnel, could prevent us from fully implementing our business strategy. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing senior management personnel or to attract qualified personnel when needed. Fluctuations in steel prices may affect our future results of operations. Purchased steel represents a substantial portion of our cost of sales, particularly in our tubular products business. The steel industry is highly cyclical in nature, and, at times, pricing can be highly volatile due to a number of factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, import duties, other trade restrictions and currency exchange rates. Over the past three years, steel prices have fluctuated significantly. Our cost for a ton of steel was approximately $531 per ton in 2009 and $663 per ton in 2010. Steel prices peaked in June 2011 when we were able to purchase steel at approximately $948 per ton, but have since dropped to remain relatively consistent during the second half of 2011, when we were able to purchase steel at an average price of $760 per ton. This volatility can significantly affect our gross profit. Although we seek to recover increases in steel prices through price increases in our products, we have not always been completely successful. Any increase in steel prices that is not offset by an increase in our prices could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We may be subject to claims for damages for defective products, which could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We warrant our products to be free of certain defects. We have, from time to time, had claims alleging defects in our products. We cannot assure you that we will not experience material product liability losses in the future or that we will not incur significant costs to defend such claims. While we currently have product liability insurance, we cannot assure you that our product liability insurance coverage will be adequate for liability that may be incurred in the future or that such coverage will continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. Any claims relating to defective products that result in liability exceeding our insurance coverage could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We may not be able to recover costs and damages from vendors that supply defective materials. We may receive defective materials from our vendors that are incorporated into our products during the manufacturing process. The cost to repair, remake or replace defective products could be greater than the amount that can be recovered from the vendor. Such excess costs could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 15 Table of Contents Sustained increases in fuel costs could have an adverse impact on our profitability. We have periodically experienced significant fluctuations in fuel costs primarily as a result of macro-economic factors beyond our control. The price of fuel fluctuates significantly over time, and events beyond our control could adversely affect the supply and cost of fuel. Although we seek to recover increases in fuel costs through price increases in our products, we have not always been completely successful. Any increase in fuel costs that is not offset by increases in our prices could have an adverse impact on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We may be unable to develop or successfully market new products or our products might not obtain necessary approvals or achieve market acceptance, which could adversely affect our growth. We will continue to actively seek to develop new products and to expand our existing products into new markets, but we cannot assure you that we will be successful in these efforts. If we are unsuccessful in developing and marketing new products, expanding into new markets, or we do not obtain or maintain requisite approvals for our products, the demand for our products could be adversely affected, which could affect our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We have a foreign operation which exposes us to the risks of doing business abroad. Our fabrication facility in Monterrey, Mexico primarily exports products to the United States. We may operate in additional countries in the future. Any material changes in the quotas, regulations or duties on imports imposed by the U.S. government and our agencies or on exports imposed by these foreign governments and their agencies could adversely affect our foreign operations. We also sell some of our products internationally. Our foreign activities are also subject to various other risks of doing business in a foreign country, including: • currency fluctuations; • transportation delays and interruptions; • political, social and economic instability and disruptions; • government embargoes or foreign trade restrictions; • the imposition of duties, tariffs and other trade barriers; • import and export controls; • labor unrest and current and changing regulatory environments; • limitations on our ability to enforce legal rights and remedies; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. No assurance can be given that our operations may not be adversely affected in the future. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our operations in the future by reducing the demand for our products and services, decreasing the prices at which we can sell our products or increasing costs such that there would be an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We cannot assure you that we will continue to operate in compliance with applicable customs, currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations or any other laws or regulations to which we may be subject, or that any such regulations or laws will not be modified. Any failure by us to comply with any such applicable regulations or laws, or any changes in any such regulations or laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our use of the percentage-of-completion method of accounting could result in a change to previously recorded revenue and profit. In particular, revenue from construction contracts in our water transmission segment is recognized on the percentage-of-completion method, measured by the costs incurred to date as a percentage of the estimated total costs of each contract (the cost-to-cost method). Estimated total costs of each 16 Table of Contents contract are reviewed on a monthly basis by project management and operations personnel for substantially all projects that are 50% or more complete except that major projects, usually over $5.0 million, are reviewed earlier if sufficient production has been completed to provide enough information to revise the original estimated total cost of the project. All cost revisions that result in the gross profit as a percent of sales increasing or decreasing by more than two percent are reviewed by senior management personnel. The use of estimated cost to complete each contract is a significant variable in the process of determining income earned and is a significant factor in the accounting for contracts. The cumulative impact of revisions in total cost estimates during the progress of work is reflected in the period in which these changes become known. Due to the variability of events affecting our estimates which have a material impact on our contract accounting, actual results could differ from those estimates, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our backlog is subject to reduction and cancellation. Backlog represents products or services that our customers have committed to purchase from us and projects for which we have been notified that we are the successful bidder even though a binding agreement has not been executed. Projects for which a binding contract has not been executed could be cancelled. Our backlog as of December 31, 2011 was $175 million. Our backlog is subject to fluctuations; moreover, cancellations of purchase orders, change orders on contracts, or reductions of product quantities could materially reduce our backlog and, consequently, future revenues. Our failure to replace canceled or reduced backlog could result in lower revenues, which could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our tubular products business has faced intense competition from imports in the past. The level of imports of tubular products has historically impacted the domestic tubular products market. High levels of imports may reduce the volume of tubular products sold by domestic producers and depress selling prices of tubular products. We believe import levels are affected by, among other things, overall worldwide demand for tubular products, lower cost of production in other countries, the trade practices of foreign governments, government subsidies to foreign producers and governmentally imposed trade restrictions in the United States. Increased imports of tubular products in the United States and Canada could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our tubular products business is facing intense competition from other North American suppliers. With the increase in energy pipe markets, there have been significant increases in available capacity in North America. Approximately 1.35 million tons of tubular pipe capacity has been added in the last few years. Approximately 500,000 tons of tubular pipe capacity is currently under construction and another 500,000 tons has been announced. Increased domestic capacity and production in the United States and Canada could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We are subject to stringent environmental and health and safety laws, which may require us to incur substantial compliance and remediation costs, thereby reducing our profits. We are subject to many federal, state, local and foreign environmental and health and safety laws and regulations, particularly with respect to the use, handling, treatment, storage, discharge and disposal of substances and hazardous wastes used or generated in our manufacturing processes. Compliance with these laws and regulations is a significant factor in our business. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant expenditures to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations. Our failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations and permit requirements could result in civil or criminal fines or penalties or enforcement actions, including regulatory or judicial orders enjoining or curtailing operations or requiring corrective measures, installation of pollution control equipment or remedial actions. We are currently, and may in the future be, required to incur costs relating to the environmental assessment or environmental remediation of our property, and for addressing environmental conditions, including, but not limited to, the issues associated with our Portland, Oregon facility as discussed in Part I—Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” below. Some environmental laws and regulations impose liability and responsibility on present and 17 Table of Contents former owners, operators or users of facilities and sites for contamination at such facilities and sites without regard to causation or knowledge of contamination. Consequently, we cannot assure you that existing or future circumstances, the development of new facts or the failure of third parties to address contamination at current or former facilities or properties will not require significant expenditures by us. We expect to continue to be subject to increasingly stringent environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. It is difficult to predict the future interpretation and development of environmental and health and safety laws and regulations or their impact on our future earnings and operations. We anticipate that compliance will continue to require capital expenditures and operating costs. Any increase in these costs, or unanticipated liabilities arising, for example, out of discovery of previously unknown conditions or more aggressive enforcement actions, could adversely affect our results of operations, and there is no assurance that they will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We face risks in connection with potential acquisitions. Acquiring businesses that complement or expand our operations has been an important element of our business strategy, and we continue to evaluate potential acquisitions that may expand and complement our business. We may not be able to successfully identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate favorable terms in the future. Furthermore, our ability to effectively integrate any future acquisitions will depend on, among other things, the adequacy of our implementation plans, the ability of our management to oversee and operate effectively the combined operations and our ability to achieve desired operational efficiencies. If we are unable to successfully integrate the operations of any businesses that we may acquire in the future, our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The relatively low trading volume of our common stock may limit your ability to sell your shares. Although our shares of common stock are listed on the Nasdaq, we have historically experienced a relatively low trading volume. If we have a low trading volume in the future, holders of our shares may have difficulty selling a large number of shares of our common stock in the manner or at a price that might otherwise be attainable. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations. The market price of our common stock has experienced, and may continue to experience, significant volatility. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: • our operating and financial performance and prospects; • quarterly variations in the rate of growth of our financial indicators, such as earnings per share, net income and sales; • changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports by analysts; • loss of any member of our senior management team; • speculation in the press or investment community; • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructuring; • sales of our common stock by shareholders; • relatively low trading volume; • general market conditions and market expectations for our industry and the financial health of our customers; and • domestic and international economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance. 18 Table of Contents The stock markets in general have experienced broad fluctuations that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Certain provisions of our governing documents and Oregon law could discourage potential acquisition proposals. Our articles of incorporation contain provisions that: • classify the board of directors into three classes, each of which serves for a three-year term with one class elected each year; • provide that directors may be removed by shareholders only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of 75% of the outstanding shares of common stock; and • permit the board of directors to issue preferred stock in one or more series, fix the number of shares constituting any such series and determine the voting powers and all other rights and preferences of any such series, without any further vote or action by our shareholders. In addition, we are subject to the Oregon Business Combination Act, which imposes certain restrictions on business combination transactions and may encourage parties interested in acquiring us to negotiate in advance with our board of directors. We also have a shareholder rights plan that acts to discourage any person or group from making a tender offer for, or acquiring, more than 15% of our common stock without the approval of our board of directors. Any of these provisions could discourage potential acquisition proposals, could deter, delay or prevent a change in control that our shareholders consider favorable and could depress the market value of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 