Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Competition and Economic Risks Affecting our Business We face intense and increasing competition from satellite television providers, cable companies and telecommunications companies, especially as the pay-TV industry has matured, which may require us to increase subscriber acquisition and retention spending or accept lower subscriber activations and higher subscriber churn. Our business is primarily focused on providing pay-TV services and we have traditionally competed against satellite television providers and cable companies, some of whom have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. Many of these competitors offer video services bundled with broadband, telephony services, HD offerings, interactive services and video on demand services that consumers may find attractive. Moreover, mergers and acquisitions, joint ventures and alliances among cable television providers, telecommunications companies and others may result in, among other things, greater financial leverage and increase the availability of offerings from providers capable of bundling television, broadband and telephone services in competition with our services. We and our competitors increasingly must seek to attract a greater proportion of new subscribers from each other’s existing subscriber bases rather than from first-time purchasers of pay-TV services. In addition, because other pay-TV providers may be seeking to attract a greater proportion of their new subscribers from our existing subscriber base, we may be required to increase retention spending. Competition has intensified in recent years as the pay-TV industry has matured and the growth of fiber-based pay-TV services offered by telecommunications companies such as Verizon and AT&T continues. These fiber-based pay-TV services have significantly greater capacity, enabling the telecommunications companies to offer substantial HD programming content as well as bundled services. This increasingly competitive environment may require us to increase subscriber acquisition and retention spending or accept lower subscriber activations and higher subscriber churn. Further, as a result of this increased competitive environment and the maturation of the pay-TV industry, future growth opportunities of our core pay-TV business may be limited and our margins may be reduced, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. Competition from digital media companies that provide or facilitate the delivery of video content via the Internet may reduce our gross new subscriber activations and may cause our subscribers to purchase fewer services from us or to cancel our services altogether, resulting in less revenue to us. Our business is primarily focused on pay-TV services, and we face competition from providers of digital media, including companies that offer online services distributing movies, television shows and other video programming. Moreover, new technologies have been, and will likely continue to be, developed that further increase the number of competitors we face with respect to video services. For example, online platforms that provide for the distribution and viewing of video programming compete with our pay-TV services. These online platforms may cause our subscribers to disconnect our services. In addition, even if our subscribers do not disconnect our services, they may purchase a certain portion of the services that they would have historically purchased from us through these online platforms, such as pay per view movies, resulting in less revenue to us. Some of these companies have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. In particular, programming offered over the Internet has become more prevalent as the speed and quality of broadband and wireless networks have improved. In addition, consumers are spending an increasing amount of time accessing video content via the Internet on their mobile devices. These technological advancements and changes in consumer behavior with regard to the means by which they obtain video content could reduce our gross new subscriber activations and could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition or otherwise disrupt our business. 22 Table of Contents Sustained economic weakness, including continued high unemployment and reduced consumer spending, may adversely affect our ability to grow or maintain our business. A substantial majority of our revenue comes from residential customers whose spending patterns may be affected by sustained economic weakness and uncertainty. Economic weakness and uncertainty persisted during 2012. Our ability to grow or maintain our business may be adversely affected by sustained economic weakness and uncertainty, including the effect of wavering consumer confidence, continued high unemployment and other factors that may adversely affect the pay-TV industry. In particular, economic weakness and uncertainty could result in the following: · Fewer gross new subscriber activations and increased subscriber churn. We could face fewer gross new subscriber activations and increased subscriber churn due to, among other things: (i) the sustained weak housing market in the United States combined with lower discretionary spending; (ii) increased price competition for our products and services; and (iii) the potential loss of retailers, who generate a significant portion of our new subscribers, because many of them are small businesses that are more susceptible to the negative effects of economic weakness. In particular, subscriber churn may increase with respect to subscribers who purchase our lower tier programming packages and who may be more sensitive to sustained economic weakness, including, among others, our pay-in-advance subscribers. · Lower pay-TV average monthly revenue per subscriber (“Pay-TV ARPU”). Our Pay-TV ARPU could be negatively impacted by aggressive introductory offers by our competitors and the growth of video content being delivered via the Internet. Furthermore, due to lower levels of disposable income, our customers may downgrade to lower cost programming packages, elect not to purchase premium services or pay per view movies or may disconnect our services and choose to replace them with less expensive alternatives such as video content delivered via the Internet, including, among others, video on demand. · Higher subscriber acquisition and retention costs. Our profits may be adversely affected by increased subscriber acquisition and retention costs necessary to attract and retain subscribers during a period of economic weakness. Our competitors may be able to leverage their relationships with programmers to reduce their programming costs and offer exclusive content that will place them at a competitive advantage to us. The cost of programming represents the largest percentage of our overall costs. Certain of our competitors own directly or are affiliated with companies that own programming content that may enable them to obtain lower programming costs or offer exclusive programming that may be attractive to prospective subscribers. Unlike our larger cable and satellite competitors, we have not made significant investments in programming providers. For example, Comcast and General Electric have joined their programming properties, including NBC, Bravo and many others that are available in the majority of our programming packages, in a venture, NBCUniversal, controlled by Comcast. This transaction may affect us adversely by, among other things, making it more difficult for us to obtain access to their programming networks on nondiscriminatory and fair terms, or at all. The transaction was approved by the FCC and the Department of Justice in January 2011. The FCC conditioned its approval on, among other things, Comcast complying with the terms of the FCC’s recent order on network neutrality, even if that order is vacated by judicial or legislative action, and Comcast licensing its affiliated content to us, other traditional pay-TV providers and certain providers of video services over the Internet on fair and nondiscriminatory terms and conditions, including, among others, price. If Comcast does not license its affiliated content to us on fair and nondiscriminatory terms and conditions, we can seek binding arbitration and continue to carry such content while the arbitration is pending. However, it is uncertain how these conditions may be interpreted and enforced by the FCC; therefore, we cannot predict the practical effect of these conditions. We face increasing competition from other distributors of unique programming services such as foreign language and sports programming that may limit our ability to maintain subscribers that desire these unique programming services. We face increasing competition from other distributors of unique programming services such as foreign language and sports programming, including programming distributed over the Internet. There can be no assurance that we 23 Table of Contents will maintain subscribers that desire these unique programming services. For example, the increasing availability of foreign language programming from our competitors, which in certain cases has resulted from our inability to renew programming agreements on an exclusive basis or at all, could contribute to an increase in our subscriber churn. Our agreements with distributors of foreign language programming have varying expiration dates, and some agreements are on a month-to-month basis. There can be no assurance that we will be able to grow or maintain subscribers that desire these unique programming services such as foreign language and sports programming. Operational and Service Delivery Risks Affecting our Business If we do not continue improving our operational performance and customer satisfaction, our gross new subscriber activations may decrease and our subscriber churn may increase. If we are unable to continue improving our operational performance and customer satisfaction, we may experience a decrease in gross new subscriber activations and an increase in subscriber churn, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. To improve our operational performance, we continue to make significant investments in staffing, training, information systems, and other initiatives, primarily in our call center and in-home service operations. These investments are intended to help combat inefficiencies introduced by the increasing complexity of our business, improve customer satisfaction, reduce subscriber churn, increase productivity, and allow us to scale better over the long run. We cannot, however, be certain that our spending will ultimately be successful in improving our operational performance. In the meantime, we may continue to incur higher costs to improve our operational performance. While we believe that these costs will be outweighed by longer-term benefits, there can be no assurance when or if we will realize these benefits at all. If we are unable to improve our operational performance, our future gross new subscriber activations and existing subscriber churn may be negatively impacted, which could in turn adversely affect our revenue growth and results of operations. If our gross new subscriber activations decrease, or if subscriber churn, subscriber acquisition costs or retention costs increase, our financial performance will be adversely affected. We may incur increased costs to acquire new subscribers and retain existing subscribers. Our subscriber acquisition costs could increase as a result of increased spending for advertising and the installation of more HD and DVR receivers, which are generally more expensive than other receivers. Meanwhile, retention costs may be driven higher by increased upgrades of existing subscribers’ equipment to HD and DVR receivers. Additionally, certain of our promotions, including, among others, pay-in-advance, allow consumers with relatively lower credit scores to become subscribers. These subscribers typically churn at a higher rate. Our subscriber acquisition costs and our subscriber retention costs can vary significantly from period to period and can cause material variability to our net income (loss) and free cash flow. Any material increase in subscriber acquisition or retention costs from current levels could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Programming expenses are increasing and could adversely affect our future financial condition and results of operations. Our programming costs currently represent the largest component of our total expense and we expect these costs to continue to increase. The pay-TV industry has continued to experience an increase in the cost of programming, especially local broadcast channels and sports programming. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on our ability to continue to obtain desirable programming and deliver it to our subscribers at competitive prices. When offering new programming, or upon expiration of existing contracts, programming suppliers have historically attempted to increase the rates they charge us for programming. We expect this practice to continue, which, if successful, would increase our programming costs. As a result, our margins may face further pressure if we are unable to renew our long-term programming contracts on favorable pricing and other economic terms. In addition, increases in programming costs could cause us to increase the rates that we charge our subscribers, which could in turn cause our existing subscribers to disconnect our service or cause potential new subscribers to 24 Table of Contents choose not to subscribe to our service. Therefore, we may be unable to pass increased programming costs on to our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We depend on others to provide the programming that we offer to our subscribers and, if we lose access to this programming, our gross new subscriber activations may decline and subscriber churn may increase. We depend on third parties to provide us with programming services. Our programming agreements have remaining terms ranging from less than one to up to several years and contain various renewal, expiration and/or termination provisions. We may not be able to renew these agreements on favorable terms or at all, and these agreements may be terminated prior to expiration of their original term. Certain programmers have, in the past, temporarily limited our access to their programming. For example, during 2012, our gross new subscriber activations and subscriber churn were negatively impacted as a result of multiple programming interruptions and threatened programming interruptions related to contract disputes with several content providers. We typically have a few programming contracts with major content providers up for renewal each year and if we are unable to renew any of these agreements or the other parties terminate the agreements, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain substitute programming, or that such substitute programming would be comparable in quality or cost to our existing programming. In addition, loss of access to programming, particularly programming provided by major content providers and/or programming popular with our subscribers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including, among other things, our gross new subscriber activations and subscriber churn rate. Our local programming strategy faces uncertainty because we may not be able to obtain necessary retransmission consent agreements at acceptable rates, or at all, from local network stations. The Copyright Act generally gives satellite companies a statutory copyright license to retransmit local broadcast channels by satellite back into the market from which they originated, subject to obtaining the retransmission consent of local network stations that do not elect “must carry” status, as required by the Communications Act. If we fail to reach retransmission consent agreements with such broadcasters, we cannot carry their signals. This could have an adverse effect on our strategy to compete with cable and other satellite companies that provide local signals. While we have been able to reach retransmission consent agreements with most of these local network stations, there remain stations with which we have not been able to reach an agreement. We cannot be sure that we will secure these agreements or that we will secure new agreements on acceptable terms, or at all, upon the expiration of our current retransmission consent agreements, some of which are short-term. During the second quarter 2012, the four major broadcast television networks filed lawsuits against us alleging, among other things, that the PrimeTime Anytime™ and AutoHop™ features of the Hopper set-top box breach their retransmission consent agreements. In the event a court ultimately determines that we breached the terms of these retransmission consent agreements, we may be subject, among other things, to substantial damages and we may lose access to programming or may not be able to renew certain of our retransmission consent agreements and other programming agreements on favorable terms or at all. Even if we ultimately prevail in these actions, there can be no assurance that we will be able to renew our retransmission consent agreements or enter into new agreements with these broadcast networks. In such event, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain substitute programming, or that such substitute programming would be comparable in quality or cost to our existing programming. In recent years, national broadcasters have used their ownership of certain local broadcast stations to require us to carry additional cable programming in exchange for retransmission consent of their local broadcast stations. These requirements may place constraints on available capacity on our satellites for other programming. Furthermore, the rates we are charged for retransmitting local channels have been increasing substantially. We may be unable to pass these increased programming costs on to our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may be required to make substantial additional investments to maintain competitive programming offerings. We believe that the availability and extent of HD programming and other value-added services such as access to video via smartphones and tablets continues to be a significant factor in consumers’ choice among pay-TV providers. Other pay-TV providers may have more successfully marketed and promoted their HD programming packages and value-added services and may also be better equipped and have greater resources to increase their HD offerings and value-added services to respond to increasing consumer demand. In addition, even though it remains a small portion of the market, consumer demand for 3D televisions and programming, as well as higher resolution 25 Table of Contents programming, will likely increase in the future. We may be required to make substantial additional investments in infrastructure to respond to competitive pressure to deliver enhanced programming, and other value-added services there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively with offerings from other pay-TV providers. Any failure or inadequacy of our information technology infrastructure could harm our business. The capacity, reliability and security of our information technology hardware and software infrastructure (including our billing systems) are important to the operation of our current business, which would suffer in the event of system failures. Likewise, our ability to expand and update our information technology infrastructure in response to our growth and changing needs is important to the continued implementation of our new service offering initiatives. Our inability to expand or upgrade our technology infrastructure could have adverse consequences, which could include the delayed implementation of new service offerings, service or billing interruptions, and the diversion of development resources. For example, during 2011, we implemented new interactive voice response and in-home appointment scheduling systems. We also implemented a new billing system as well as new sales and customer care systems in the first quarter 2012. We are relying on third parties for developing key components of these systems and ongoing service after their implementation. Third parties may experience errors or disruptions that could adversely impact us and over which we may have limited control. Interruption and/or failure of any of these new systems could disrupt our operations and damage our reputation thus adversely impacting our ability to provide our services, retain our current subscribers and attract new subscribers. In addition, although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our information technology hardware and software infrastructure may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. If one or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize our customer and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our information technology hardware and software infrastructure, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations, which could result in significant losses or reputational damage. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses. We currently depend on EchoStar and its subsidiaries, to design, develop and manufacture all of our new set-top boxes and certain related components, and to provide transponder capacity, digital broadcast operations and other services to us. Our business would be adversely affected if EchoStar ceases to provide these products and services to us and we are unable to obtain suitable replacement products and services from third parties. EchoStar is our sole supplier of digital set-top boxes and digital broadcast operations. In addition, EchoStar is a key supplier of transponder capacity and related services to us. We purchase digital set-top boxes from EchoStar pursuant to a contract that expires on December 31, 2014. EchoStar provides digital broadcast operations to us pursuant to a contract that expires on December 31, 2016. EchoStar has no obligation to supply digital set-top boxes or digital broadcast operations to us after these dates. We may be unable to renew agreements for digital set-top boxes or digital broadcast operations with EchoStar on acceptable terms or at all. Equipment, transponder leasing and digital broadcast operation costs may increase beyond our current expectations. EchoStar’s inability to develop and produce, or our inability to obtain, equipment with the latest technology, or our inability to obtain transponder capacity and digital broadcast operations and other services from third parties, could affect our subscriber acquisition and churn and cause related revenue to decline. Furthermore, due to the lack of compatibility of our infrastructure with the set-top boxes of a provider other than EchoStar, any transition to a new supplier of set-top boxes could take a significant period of time to complete, cause us to incur significant costs and negatively affect our gross new subscriber activations and subscriber churn. For example, the proprietary nature of the Sling technology and certain other technology used in EchoStar’s set-top boxes may significantly limit our ability to obtain set-top boxes with the same or similar features from any other provider of set-top boxes. If we were to switch to another provider of set-top boxes, we may have to implement additional infrastructure to support the set-top boxes purchased from such new provider, which could significantly increase our costs. In addition, differences in, among other things, the user interface between set-top boxes provided by EchoStar and those of any other provider could cause subscriber confusion, which could increase our costs and have a material 26 Table of Contents adverse effect on our gross new subscriber activations and subscriber churn. Furthermore, switching to a new provider of set-top boxes may cause a reduction in our supply of set-top boxes and thus delay our ability to ship set-top boxes, which could have a material adverse effect on our gross new subscriber activations and subscriber churn rate. We operate in an extremely competitive environment and our success may depend in part on our timely introduction and implementation of, and effective investment in, new competitive products and services, the failure of which could negatively impact our business. Our operating results are dependent to a significant extent upon our ability to continue to introduce new products and services and to upgrade existing products and services on a timely basis, and to reduce costs of our existing products and services. We may not be able to successfully identify new product or service opportunities or develop and market these opportunities in a timely or cost-effective manner. The research and development of new, technologically advanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation and investment. The success of new product and service development depends on many factors, including among others, the following: · difficulties and delays in the development, production, timely completion, testing and marketing of products and services; · the cost of the products and services; · proper identification of customer need and customer acceptance of products and services; · the development of, approval of and compliance with industry standards; · the significant amount of resources we must devote to the development of new technologies; and · the ability to differentiate our products and services and compete with other companies in the same markets. If our products and services, including without limitation, our Hopper set-top box, are not competitive or do not work properly, our business could suffer and our financial performance could be negatively impacted. If the quality of our products and services do not meet our customers’ expectations or our products are found to be defective, then our sales and revenues, and ultimately our reputation, could be negatively impacted. Technology in our industry changes rapidly and our inability to offer new subscribers and upgrade existing subscribers with more advanced equipment could cause our products and services to become obsolete. Technology in the pay-TV industry changes rapidly as new technologies are developed, which could cause our products and services to become obsolete. We and our suppliers may not be able to keep pace with technological developments. If the new technologies on which we intend to focus our research and development investments fail to achieve acceptance in the marketplace, our competitive position could be negatively impacted causing a reduction in our revenues and earnings. We may also be at a competitive disadvantage in developing and introducing complex new products and services because of the substantial costs we may incur in making these products or services available across our installed base of approximately 14 million subscribers. For example, our competitors could use proprietary technologies that are perceived by the market as being superior. Further, after we have incurred substantial costs, one or more of the products or services under our development, or under development by one or more of our strategic partners, could become obsolete prior to it being widely adopted. In addition, our competitive position depends in part on our ability to offer new subscribers and upgrade existing subscribers with more advanced equipment, such as receivers with DVR and HD technology and by otherwise making additional infrastructure investments, such as those related to our information technology and call centers. Furthermore, the continued demand for HD programming continues to require investments in additional satellite capacity. We may not be able to pass on to our subscribers the entire cost of these upgrades and infrastructure investments. New technologies could also create new competitors for us. For instance, we face increasing consumer demand for the delivery of digital video services via the Internet, including providing what we refer to as “DISH Anywhere.” 27 Table of Contents We expect to continue to face increased threats from companies who use the Internet to deliver digital video services as the speed and quality of broadband and wireless networks continues to improve. Technological innovation is important to our success and depends, to a significant degree, on the work of technically skilled employees. We rely on EchoStar to design, develop and manufacture set-top boxes with advanced features and functionality and solutions for providing digital video services via the Internet. If EchoStar is unable to attract and retain appropriately technically skilled employees, our competitive position could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, delays in the delivery of components or other unforeseen problems associated with our technology may occur that could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate revenue, offer new products and services and remain competitive. We rely on a single vendor or a limited number of vendors to provide certain key products or services to us such as information technology support, billing systems, and security access devices, and the inability of these key vendors to meet our needs could have a material adverse effect on our business. Historically, we have contracted with a single vendor or a limited number of vendors to provide certain key products or services to us such as information technology support, billing systems, and security access devices. If these vendors are unable to meet our needs because they fail to perform adequately, are no longer in business, are experiencing shortages or discontinue a certain product or service we need, our business, financial position and results of operations may be adversely affected. While alternative sources for these products and services exist, we may not be able to develop these alternative sources quickly and cost-effectively which could materially impair our ability to timely deliver our products to our subscribers or operate our business. Furthermore, our vendors may request changes in pricing, payment terms or other contractual obligations between the parties, which could cause us to make substantial additional investments. Our sole supplier of new set-top boxes, EchoStar, relies on a few suppliers and in some cases a single supplier, for many components of our new set-top boxes, and any reduction or interruption in supplies or significant increase in the price of supplies could have a negative impact on our business. EchoStar relies on a few suppliers and in some cases a single supplier, for many components of our new set-top boxes that we provide to subscribers in order to deliver our digital television services. Our ability to meet customer demand depends, in part, on EchoStar’s ability to obtain timely and adequate delivery of quality materials, parts and components from suppliers. In the event of an interruption of supply or a significant price increase from these suppliers, EchoStar may not be able to diversify sources of supply in a timely manner, which could have a negative impact on our business. Further, due to increased demand for products, many electronic manufacturers are experiencing shortages for certain components. EchoStar has experienced in the past and may continue to experience shortages driven by raw material availability, manufacturing capacity, labor shortages, industry allocations, natural disasters, logistical delays and significant changes in the financial or business conditions of our suppliers that negatively impact our operations. Any such delays or constraints could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including, among other things, our gross new subscriber activations. Our programming signals are subject to theft, and we are vulnerable to other forms of fraud that could require us to make significant expenditures to remedy. Increases in theft of our signal or our competitors’ signals could, in addition to reducing new subscriber activations, also cause subscriber churn to increase. We use microchips embedded in credit card-sized cards, called “smart cards” or Security Access Devices. Our signal encryption has been compromised in the past and may be compromised in the future even though we continue to respond with significant investment in security measures, such as Security Access Device replacement programs and updates in security software, that are intended to make signal theft more difficult. It has been our prior experience that security measures may only be effective for short periods of time or not at all and that we remain susceptible to additional signal theft. During 2009, we completed the replacement of our Security Access Devices and re-secured our system. We expect additional future replacements of these devices will be necessary to 28 Table of Contents keep our system secure. We cannot ensure that we will be successful in reducing or controlling theft of our programming content and we may incur additional costs in the future if our system’s security is compromised. We are also vulnerable to other forms of fraud. While we are addressing certain fraud through a number of actions, including terminating retailers that we believe violated DISH Network’s business rules, there can be no assurance that we will not continue to experience fraud which could impact our gross new subscriber activations and subscriber churn. Sustained economic weakness may create greater incentive for signal theft and other forms of fraud, which could lead to higher subscriber churn and reduced revenue. We depend on third parties to solicit orders for our services that represent a significant percentage of our total gross new subscriber activations. Most of our retailers are not exclusive to us and some of our retailers may favor our competitors’ products and services over ours based on the relative financial arrangements associated with marketing our products and services and those of our competitors. Furthermore, most of these retailers are significantly smaller than we are and may be more susceptible to sustained economic weaknesses that make it more difficult for them to operate profitably. Because our retailers receive most of their incentive value at activation and not over an extended period of time, our interests may not always be aligned with our retailers. It may be difficult to better align our interests with our resellers’ because of their capital and liquidity constraints. Loss of these relationships could have an adverse effect on our subscriber base and certain of our other key operating metrics because we may not be able to develop comparable alternative distribution channels. We have limited owned and leased satellite capacity and failures or reduced capacity could adversely affect our business. Operation of our programming service requires that we have adequate satellite transmission capacity for the programming we offer. Moreover, current competitive conditions require that we continue to expand our offering of new programming. While we generally have had in-orbit satellite capacity sufficient to transmit our existing channels and some backup capacity to recover the transmission of certain critical programming, our backup capacity is limited. Our ability to earn revenue depends on the usefulness of our satellites, each of which has a limited useful life. A number of factors affect the useful lives of the satellites, including, among other things, the quality of their construction, the durability of their component parts, the ability to continue to maintain proper orbit and control over the satellite’s functions, the efficiency of the launch vehicle used, and the remaining on-board fuel following orbit insertion. Generally, the minimum design life of each of our satellites ranges from 12 to 15 years. We can provide no assurance, however, as to the actual useful lives of the satellites. Our operating results could be adversely affected if the useful life of any of our satellites were significantly shorter than the minimum design life. In the event of a failure or loss of any of our satellites, we may need to acquire or lease additional satellite capacity or relocate one of our other satellites and use it as a replacement for the failed or lost satellite, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Such a failure could result in a prolonged loss of critical programming or a significant delay in our plans to expand programming as necessary to remain competitive. A relocation would require FCC approval and, among other things, a showing to the FCC that the replacement satellite would not cause additional interference compared to the failed or lost satellite. We cannot be certain that we could obtain such FCC approval. If we choose to use a satellite in this manner, this use could adversely affect our ability to satisfy certain operational conditions associated with our authorizations. Failure to satisfy those conditions could result in the loss of such authorizations, which would have an adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues. Our owned and leased satellites are subject to construction, launch, operational and environmental risks that could limit our ability to utilize these satellites. Construction and launch risks. A key component of our business strategy is our ability to expand our offering of new programming and services. To accomplish this goal, we need to construct and launch satellites. Satellite construction and launch is subject to significant risks, including construction and launch delays, launch failure and 29 Table of Contents incorrect orbital placement. Certain launch vehicles that may be used by us have either unproven track records or have experienced launch failures in the recent past. The risks of launch delay and failure are usually greater when the launch vehicle does not have a track record of previous successful flights. Launch failures result in significant delays in the deployment of satellites because of the need both to construct replacement satellites, which can take more than three years, and to obtain other launch opportunities. Significant construction or launch delays could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. If we were unable to obtain launch insurance, or obtain launch insurance at rates we deem commercially reasonable, and a significant launch failure were to occur, it could impact our ability to fund future satellite procurement and launch opportunities. · In addition, the occurrence of future launch failures for other operators may delay the deployment of our satellites and materially and adversely affect our ability to insure the launch of our satellites at commercially reasonable premiums, if at all. Please see further discussion under the caption “We generally do not carry commercial insurance for any of the in-orbit satellites that we use, other than certain satellites leased from third parties, and could face significant impairment charges if one of our satellites fails” below. Operational risks. Satellites are subject to significant operational risks while in orbit. These risks include malfunctions, commonly referred to as anomalies that have occurred in our satellites and the satellites of other operators as a result of various factors, such as satellite manufacturers’ errors, problems with the power systems or control systems of the satellites and general failures resulting from operating satellites in the harsh environment of space. Although we work closely with the satellite manufacturers to determine and eliminate the cause of anomalies in new satellites and provide for redundancies of many critical components in the satellites, we may experience anomalies in the future, whether of the types described above or arising from the failure of other systems or components. Any single anomaly or series of anomalies could materially and adversely affect our operations and revenues and our relationship with current customers, as well as our ability to attract new customers for our pay-TV services. In particular, future anomalies may result in the loss of individual transponders on a satellite, a group of transponders on that satellite or the entire satellite, depending on the nature of the anomaly. Anomalies may also reduce the expected useful life of a satellite, thereby reducing the channels that could be offered using that satellite, or create additional expenses due to the need to provide replacement or back-up satellites. You should review the disclosures relating to satellite anomalies set forth under Note 8 in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Environmental risks. Meteoroid events pose a potential threat to all in-orbit satellites. The probability that meteoroids will damage those satellites increases significantly when the Earth passes through the particulate stream left behind by comets. Occasionally, increased solar activity also poses a potential threat to all in-orbit satellites. Some decommissioned satellites are in uncontrolled orbits that pass through the geostationary belt at various points, and present hazards to operational satellites, including our satellites. We may be required to perform maneuvers to avoid collisions and these maneuvers may prove unsuccessful or could reduce the useful life of the satellite through the expenditure of fuel to perform these maneuvers. The loss, damage or destruction of any of our satellites as a result of an electrostatic storm, collision with space debris, malfunction or other event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We generally do not carry commercial insurance for any of the in-orbit satellites that we use, other than certain satellites leased from third parties, and could face significant impairment charges if one of our satellites fails. Generally, we do not carry launch or in-orbit insurance on the owned satellites we use. We currently do not carry in-orbit insurance on any of our satellites, other than certain satellites leased from third parties, and generally do not use commercial insurance to mitigate the potential financial impact of launch or in-orbit failures because we believe that the cost of insurance premiums is uneconomical relative to the risk of such failures. If one or more of our in-orbit satellites fail, we could be required to record significant impairment charges. 30 Table of Contents We may have potential conflicts of interest with EchoStar due to our common ownership and management. Questions relating to conflicts of interest may arise between EchoStar and us in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships. Areas in which conflicts of interest between EchoStar and us could arise include, but are not limited to, the following: · Cross officerships, directorships and stock ownership. We have certain overlap in directors and executive officers with EchoStar, which may lead to conflicting interests. Our Board of Directors and executive officers include persons who are members of the Board of Directors of EchoStar, including Charles W. Ergen, who serves as the Chairman of EchoStar and us. The executive officers and the members of our Board of Directors who overlap with EchoStar have fiduciary duties to EchoStar’s shareholders. For example, there is the potential for a conflict of interest when we or EchoStar look at acquisitions and other corporate opportunities that may be suitable for both companies. In addition, certain of our directors and officers own EchoStar stock and options to purchase EchoStar stock. Mr. Ergen owns approximately 47.5% of EchoStar’s total equity securities (assuming conversion of all Class B Common Stock into Class A Common Stock) and beneficially owns approximately 51.3% of the EchoStar’s total equity securities (assuming conversion of only the Class B Common Stock held by Mr. Ergen into Class A Common Stock). Under either a beneficial or equity calculation method, Mr. Ergen controls approximately 79.5% of the voting power of EchoStar. Mr. Ergen’s ownership of EchoStar excludes 6,646,648 shares of its Class A Common Stock issuable upon conversion of shares of its Class B Common Stock currently held by certain trusts established by Mr. Ergen for the benefit of his family. These trusts own approximately 7.6% of EchoStar’s total equity securities (assuming conversion of all Class B Common Stock into Class A Common Stock) and beneficially own approximately 14.3% of EchoStar’s total equity securities (assuming conversion of only the Class B Common Stock held by such trusts into Class A Common Stock). Under either a beneficial or equity calculation method, these trusts possess approximately 12.9% of EchoStar’s total voting power. These ownership interests could create actual, apparent or potential conflicts of interest when these individuals are faced with decisions that could have different implications for us and EchoStar. Furthermore, Charles W. Ergen, our Chairman, and Roger Lynch, Executive Vice President, Advanced Technologies, are employed by both us and EchoStar. These individuals may have actual or apparent conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving or affecting each company. · Intercompany agreements with EchoStar. We have entered into certain agreements with EchoStar pursuant to which we provide EchoStar with certain management, administrative, accounting, tax, legal and other services, for which EchoStar pays us our cost plus a fixed margin. In addition, we have entered into a number of intercompany agreements covering matters such as tax sharing and EchoStar’s responsibility for certain liabilities previously undertaken by us for certain of EchoStar’s businesses. We have also entered into certain commercial agreements with EchoStar pursuant to which EchoStar, among other things, sells set-top boxes and related equipment to us at specified prices. The terms of certain of these agreements were established while EchoStar was a wholly-owned subsidiary of us and were not the result of arm’s length negotiations. The allocation of assets, liabilities, rights, indemnifications and other obligations between EchoStar and us under the separation and other intercompany agreements we entered into with EchoStar, in connection with the Spin-off, may have been different if agreed to by two unaffiliated parties. Had these agreements been negotiated with unaffiliated third parties, their terms may have been more favorable, or less favorable, to us. In addition, conflicts could arise between us and EchoStar in the interpretation or any extension or renegotiation of these existing agreements. · Additional intercompany transactions. EchoStar or its affiliates have and will continue to enter into transactions with us or our subsidiaries or other affiliates. Although the terms of any such transactions will be established based upon negotiations between EchoStar and us and, when appropriate, subject to the approval of a committee of the non-interlocking directors or in certain instances non-interlocking management, there can be no assurance that the terms of any such transactions will be as favorable to us or our subsidiaries or affiliates as may otherwise be obtained between unaffiliated parties. · Business opportunities. We have historically retained, and in the future may acquire, interests in various companies that have subsidiaries or controlled affiliates that own or operate domestic or foreign services that may compete with services offered by EchoStar. We may also compete with EchoStar when we participate in auctions for spectrum or orbital slots for our satellites. In addition, EchoStar may in the 31 Table of Contents future use its satellites, uplink and transmission assets to compete directly against us in the subscription television business. We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts, and, even if we do so, the resolution may be less favorable to us than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated party. Other than certain joint arrangements between DISH Network and EchoStar, we do not have agreements with EchoStar that would prevent either company from competing with the other. We rely on key personnel and the loss of their services may negatively affect our businesses. We believe that our future success will depend to a significant extent upon the performance of Charles W. Ergen, our Chairman, and certain other executives. The loss of Mr. Ergen or of certain other key executives could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although all of our executives have executed agreements limiting their ability to work for or consult with competitors if they leave us, we do not have employment agreements with any of them. To the extent our officers are performing services for EchoStar, this may divert their time and attention away from our business and may therefore adversely affect our business. Acquisition and Capital Structure Risks Affecting our Business We made a substantial investment to acquire certain 2 GHz wireless spectrum licenses and other assets from DBSD North America and TerreStar. We will be required to make significant additional investments or partner with others to commercialize these licenses and assets. On March 2, 2012, the FCC approved the transfer of 40 MHz of 2 GHz wireless spectrum licenses held by DBSD North America and TerreStar to us. On March 9, 2012, we completed the DBSD Transaction and the TerreStar Transaction, pursuant to which we acquired, among other things, certain satellite assets and wireless spectrum licenses held by DBSD North America and TerreStar. In addition, during the fourth quarter 2011, we and Sprint entered into the Sprint Settlement Agreement pursuant to which all issues then being disputed relating to the DBSD Transaction and the TerreStar Transaction were resolved between us and Sprint, including, but not limited to, issues relating to costs allegedly incurred by Sprint to relocate users from the spectrum then licensed to DBSD North America and TerreStar. Pursuant to the Sprint Settlement Agreement, we made a net payment of approximately $114 million to Sprint. The total consideration to acquire these assets was approximately $2.860 billion. This amount includes $1.364 billion for the DBSD Transaction, $1.382 billion for the TerreStar Transaction, and the net payment of $114 million to Sprint pursuant to the Sprint Settlement Agreement. Our consolidated FCC applications for approval of the license transfers from DBSD North America and TerreStar were accompanied by requests for waiver of the FCC’s Mobile Satellite Service (“MSS”) “integrated service” and spare satellite requirements and various technical provisions. The FCC denied our requests for waiver of the integrated service and spare satellite requirements but did not initially act on our request for waiver of the various technical provisions. On March 21, 2012, the FCC released a Notice of Proposed Rule Making (“NPRM”) proposing the elimination of the integrated service, spare satellite and various technical requirements attached to the 2 GHz licenses. On December 11, 2012, the FCC approved rules that eliminated these requirements and gave notice of its proposed modification of our 2 GHz authorizations to, among other things, allow us to offer single-mode terrestrial terminals to customers who do not desire satellite functionality. On February 15, 2013, the FCC issued an order, which will become effective on March 7, 2013, modifying our 2 GHz licenses to add terrestrial operating authority. The FCC’s order of modification has imposed certain limitations on the use of a portion of this spectrum, including interference protections for other spectrum users and power and emission limits that we presently believe could render 5 MHz of our uplink spectrum effectively unusable for terrestrial services and limit our ability to fully utilize the remaining 15 MHz of our uplink spectrum for terrestrial services. These limitations could, among other things, impact the finalization of technical standards associated with our wireless business, and may have a material adverse effect on our ability to commercialize these licenses. The new rules also mandate certain interim and final build-out requirements for the licenses. By March 2017, we must provide terrestrial signal coverage and offer terrestrial service to at least 40% of the aggregate population represented by all of the areas covered by the licenses (the “2 GHz Interim Build-out Requirement”). By March 2020, we must provide terrestrial signal coverage and offer terrestrial service to at least 70% of the population in each area covered by an individual license (the “2 GHz Final Build-out Requirement”). If we fail to meet the 2 GHz Interim Build-out Requirement, the 2 GHz Final Build-out Requirement will be accelerated by one year, from March 2020 to March 2019. If we fail to meet the 2 GHz Final Build-out Requirement, our terrestrial authorization for each license area in which we fail to meet the requirement will terminate. In addition, the FCC is currently considering rules for a spectrum band that is adjacent to our 2 GHz licenses, known as the “H Block.” If the FCC adopts rules for the H block that do not adequately protect our 2 GHz licenses, there could be a material adverse effect on our ability to commercialize the 2 GHz licenses. 32 Table of Contents As a result of the completion of the DBSD Transaction and the TerreStar Transaction, we will likely be required to make significant additional investments or partner with others to, among other things, finance the commercialization and build-out requirements of these licenses and our integration efforts including compliance with regulations applicable to the acquired licenses. Depending on the nature and scope of such commercialization, build-out, and integration efforts, any such investment or partnership could vary significantly. Additionally, recent consolidation in the wireless telecommunications industry, may, among other things, limit our available options, including our ability to partner with others. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop and implement a business model that will realize a return on these spectrum licenses or that we will be able to profitably deploy the assets represented by these spectrum licenses, which may affect the carrying value of these assets and our future financial condition or results of operations. While the FCC’s recently issued rules applicable to our 2 GHz authorizations no longer require an integrated satellite component, we may use these satellites in our commercialization of wireless spectrum or for other commercial purposes. In addition, T1, which we acquired through the TerreStar Transaction, is subject to certain Canadian satellite regulations, including, among other things, an integrated satellite component. We are evaluating our options for these satellites. Depending on our eventual use of these satellites, we may need to impair them in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our future results of operations. Furthermore, the fair values of wireless licenses and related assets may vary significantly in the future. In particular, valuation swings could occur if: · consolidation in the wireless industry allows or requires wireless carriers to sell significant portions of their wireless spectrum holdings, which could in turn reduce the value of our spectrum holdings; or · a sale of spectrum by one or more wireless providers occurs. In addition, the fair value of wireless licenses could decline as a result of the FCC’s pursuit of policies, including auctions, designed to increase the number of wireless licenses available in each of our markets. If the fair value of our 2 GHz licenses were to decline significantly, the value of these licenses could be subject to impairment charges. We assess potential impairments to our indefinite-lived intangible assets annually or more often if indicators of impairment arise to determine whether there is evidence that indicate an impairment condition may exist. We made a substantial investment to acquire certain 700 MHz wireless spectrum licenses and will be required to make significant additional investments or partner with others to commercialize these licenses. In 2008, we paid $712 million to acquire certain 700 MHz wireless spectrum licenses, which were granted to us by the FCC in February 2009. These licenses mandate certain interim and final build-out requirements. By June 2013, we must provide signal coverage and offer service to at least 35% of the geographic area in each area covered by each individual license (the “700 MHz Interim Build-out Requirement”). By the end of our license term (June 2019), we must provide signal coverage and offer service to at least 70% of the geographic area in each area covered by each individual license (the “700 MHz Final Build-out Requirement”). We have recently notified the FCC of our plans to commence signal coverage in select cities within certain of these areas, but we have not yet developed plans for providing signal coverage and offering service in all of these areas. If we fail to meet the 700 MHz Interim Build-out Requirement, the term of our licenses will be reduced, from June 2019 to June 2017, and we could face possible fines and the reduction of license area(s). If we fail to meet the 700 MHz Final Build-out Requirement, our authorization for each license area in which we fail to meet the requirement will terminate. To commercialize these licenses and satisfy the associated FCC build-out requirements, we will be required to make significant additional 33 Table of Contents investments or partner with others. Depending on the nature and scope of such commercialization and build-out, any such investment or partnership could vary significantly. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop and implement a business model that will realize a return on these investments and profitably deploy the spectrum represented by the 700 MHz licenses. Furthermore, the fair values of wireless licenses may vary significantly in the future. In particular, valuation swings could occur if: · consolidation in the wireless industry allows or requires wireless carriers to sell significant portions of their wireless spectrum holdings, which could in turn reduce the value of our spectrum holdings; or · a sudden large sale of spectrum by one or more wireless providers occurs. In addition, the fair value of wireless licenses could decline as a result of the FCC’s pursuit of policies, including auctions, designed to increase the number of wireless licenses available in each of our markets. If the fair value of our 700 MHz licenses were to decline significantly, the value of these licenses could be subject to impairment charges. We assess potential impairments to our indefinite-lived intangible assets annually or more often if indicators of impairment arise to determine whether there is evidence that indicate an impairment condition may exist. To the extent we commercialize our wireless spectrum licenses, we will face certain risks entering and competing in the wireless services industry and operating a wireless services business. We will likely be required to make significant additional investments or partner with others to, among other things, finance the commercialization and build-out requirements of our wireless spectrum licenses and our integration efforts including compliance with regulations applicable to these licenses. Depending upon the nature and scope of such commercialization, build-out and integration efforts, any such investment could vary significantly. Additionally, recent consolidation in the wireless telecommunications industry, may, among other things, limit our available options, including our ability to partner with others. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop and implement a business model that will realize a return on these spectrum investments or that we will be able to profitably deploy the assets represented by these spectrum investments, which may affect the carrying value of these assets and our future business, results of operations and financial condition. To the extent we commercialize our wireless spectrum licenses and enter the wireless services industry, a wireless services business presents certain risks. Any of the following risks, among others, may have a material adverse effect on our future business, results of operations and financial condition. · The wireless services industry is competitive and maturing. We have limited experience in the wireless services industry, which is a competitive and maturing industry with incumbent and established competitors such as AT&T, Verizon, T-Mobile and Sprint. These companies have substantial market share and have more wireless spectrum assets than us. Some of these companies have greater financial, marketing and other resources than us, and have existing cost and operational advantages that we lack. Market saturation is expected to continue to cause the wireless services industry’s customer growth rate to moderate in comparison to historical growth rates, leading to increased competition for customers. As the industry matures, competitors increasingly must seek to attract a greater proportion of new subscribers from each other’s existing subscriber bases rather than from first-time purchasers of wireless services. In addition, the cost of attracting a new customer is generally higher than the cost associated with retention of an existing customer. · Our ability to compete effectively would be dependent on a number of factors. Our ability to compete effectively would depend on, among other things, our network quality, capacity and coverage; the pricing of our products and services; the quality of customer service; our development of new and enhanced products and services; the reach and quality of our sales and distribution channels; and capital resources. It would also depend on how successfully we anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting the industry, including, among others, new technologies and business models, products and services that 34 Table of Contents may be introduced by competitors, changes in consumer preferences, the demand for services, demographic trends, economic conditions, and discount pricing and other strategies that may be implemented by competitors. It may be difficult for us to differentiate our products and services from other competitors in the industry, which may limit our ability to attract customers. Our success also may depend on our ability to access and deploy adequate spectrum, deploy new technologies and offer attractive services to customers. For example, we may not be able to obtain and offer certain technologies or features that are subject to competitor patents or other exclusive arrangements. · We would depend on third parties to provide us with infrastructure and products and services. We would depend on various key suppliers and vendors to provide us, directly or through other suppliers, with infrastructure, equipment and services, such as switch and network equipment, handsets and other devices and equipment that we would need in order to operate a wireless services business and provide products and services to our customers. For example, handset and other device suppliers often rely on one vendor for the manufacture and supply of critical components, such as chipsets, used in their devices. If these suppliers or vendors fail to provide equipment or services on a timely basis or fail to meet performance expectations, we may be unable to provide products and services as and when expected by our customers. Any difficulties experienced with these suppliers and vendors could result in additional expense and/or delays in introducing our wireless services. Our efforts would involve significant expense and require strategic management decisions on, and timely implementation of, equipment choices, network deployment and management, and service offerings. In addition, these suppliers and vendors may also be subject to litigation with respect to technology on which we would depend, including litigation involving claims of patent infringement, which claims have been growing rapidly in the wireless services industry. · Wireless services and our wireless spectrum licenses are subject to government regulation. Wireless services and our wireless spectrum licenses are subject to regulation by the FCC and other federal, state and local, as well as international, governmental authorities. These governmental authorities could adopt regulations or take other actions that would adversely affect our business prospects. The licensing, construction, operation, sale and interconnection arrangements of wireless telecommunications systems are regulated by the FCC and, depending on the jurisdiction, other federal and international, state and local regulatory agencies. In particular, the FCC imposes significant regulation on licensees of wireless spectrum with respect to how radio spectrum is used by licensees, the nature of the services that licensees may offer and how the services may be offered, and resolution of issues of interference between spectrum bands. The FCC grants wireless licenses for terms of generally ten years that are subject to renewal or revocation. There can be no assurances that our wireless spectrum licenses will be renewed. Failure to comply with FCC requirements in a given license area could result in revocation of the license for that license area. For further information related to our licenses and build-out requirements related to our 700 MHz and 2 GHz wireless spectrum licenses, see other Risk Factors above. Our Blockbuster business faces risks, including, among other things, operational challenges and increasing competition from video rental kiosks and streaming and mail order businesses that may negatively impact the business, financial condition or results of operations of Blockbuster. On April 26, 2011, we completed the Blockbuster Acquisition. During 2012, we closed approximately 700 domestic retail stores, leaving us with approximately 800 domestic retail stores as of December 31, 2012. In January 2013, we announced the closing of approximately 300 additional domestic retail stores. Blockbuster’s retail store operations involve the management and distribution of product inventories, and we have limited experience in operating retail stores. Factors that are unique to the Blockbuster business, compared to our existing businesses, include, among other things, maintaining adequate inventory, controlling shrinkage due to theft and loss, managing excess inventory, product fulfillment and operating losses. If we are unable to successfully address these challenges and risks, our Blockbuster business, financial condition or results of operations will likely suffer. In addition, our Blockbuster business faces increasing competition from video rental kiosks, streaming and mail order businesses. These competitive pressures have contributed to weak store-level financial performance at many of our Blockbuster retail stores. 35 Table of Contents We continue to evaluate the impact of certain factors, including, among other things, competitive pressures, the ability of significantly fewer Blockbuster domestic retail stores to continue to support corporate administrative costs, and other issues impacting the store-level financial performance of our Blockbuster domestic retail stores. These factors, or other reasons, could lead us to close additional Blockbuster domestic retail stores. There is no assurance that we will achieve the expected benefits from the Blockbuster Acquisition. Blockbuster Entertainment Limited and Blockbuster GB Limited, our Blockbuster operating subsidiaries in the United Kingdom (collectively, the “Blockbuster UK Operating Entities”), entered into administration proceedings in the United Kingdom on January 16, 2013 (the “Administration”). Administrators have been appointed by the English courts to sell or liquidate the assets of the Blockbuster UK Operating Entities for the benefit of their creditors. Since we no longer exercise control and the administrator now exercises control over all operating decisions for the Blockbuster UK Operating Entities, we will be required to deconsolidate our Blockbuster entities in the United Kingdom (collectively, “Blockbuster UK”) during the first quarter 2013. As a result of the Administration, we have written down the assets of Blockbuster UK to their estimated net realizable value on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2012, and we recorded a charge to “Cost of sales - equipment, merchandise, services, rental and other” of $21 million during the year ended December 31, 2012 on our Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income (Loss). Furthermore, we have intercompany receivables due from Blockbuster UK of approximately $37 million that are eliminated in consolidation on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2012. Upon deconsolidation of Blockbuster UK in the first quarter 2013, these intercompany receivables will no longer be eliminated in consolidation. We currently believe that we will not receive the entire amount for these intercompany receivables in the Administration. Accordingly, we recorded a $25 million impairment charge related to these intercompany receivables, to adjust this amount to their estimated net realizable value for the year ended December 31, 2012. This impairment charge was recorded in “Other, net” within “Other Income (Expense)” on our Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income (Loss) and the resulting liability was recorded in “Other accrued expenses” on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2012. The $25 million impairment liability will be offset against the intercompany receivables that will be recorded upon deconsolidation in the first quarter 2013. In total, we recorded charges described above totaling approximately $46 million on a pre-tax basis on our Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income (Loss) for the year ended December 31, 2012 related to the Administration. The proceeds that we actually receive from the Administration and the actual impairment charge may differ from our estimates. As of December 31, 2012, Blockbuster UK had total assets and liabilities as follows (in thousands): Cash $ 14,072 Trade accounts receivable 1,153 Inventory 34,937 Other current assets 10,243 Restricted cash and marketable securities 484 Property and equipment 186 Trade accounts payable (13,081 ) Intercompany payable (36,676 ) Deferred revenue and other (1,369 ) Other accrued expenses (9,949 ) Total net assets $ — Upon deconsolidation in the first quarter 2013, the above amounts will be combined into one net asset and the intercompany receivables of $37 million, net of the impairment liability of $25 million described above, will be recorded in “Other noncurrent assets, net” on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as a component of our investment in Blockbuster UK. For the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, Blockbuster UK had $293 million and $242 million of revenue, respectively. In addition, for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, Blockbuster UK had an operating loss of $31 million and operating income of $16 million, respectively. Upon deconsolidation in the first quarter 2013, 36 Table of Contents the revenue and expenses related to Blockbuster UK will no longer be recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements. We may pursue acquisitions and other strategic transactions to complement or expand our business that may not be successful and we may lose up to the entire value of our investment in these acquisitions and transactions. Our future success may depend on opportunities to buy other businesses or technologies that could complement, enhance or expand our current business or products or that might otherwise offer us growth opportunities. To pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify attractive acquisition or investment opportunities and successfully complete transactions, some of which may be large and complex. We may not be able to identify or complete attractive acquisition or investment opportunities due to, among other things, the intense competition for these transactions. If we are not able to identify and complete such acquisition or investment opportunities, our future results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. We may be unable to obtain in the anticipated timeframe, or at all, any regulatory approvals required to complete proposed acquisitions and other strategic transactions. Furthermore, the conditions imposed for obtaining any necessary approvals could delay the completion of such transactions for a significant period of time or prevent them from occurring at all. We may not be able to complete such transactions and such transactions, if executed, pose significant risks and could have a negative effect on our operations. Any transactions that we are able to identify and complete may involve a number of risks, including: · the diversion of our management’s attention from our existing business to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired or combined business or joint venture; · possible adverse effects on our operating results during the integration process; · a high degree of risk involved in these transactions, which could become substantial over time, and higher exposure to significant financial losses if the underlying ventures are not successful; · our possible inability to achieve the intended objectives of the transaction; and · the risks associated with complying with regulations applicable to the acquired business, which may cause us to incur substantial expenses. In addition, we may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage our newly acquired operations or employees. We may not be able to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, and this may lead to operational inefficiencies. In addition, the integration process may strain our financial and managerial controls and reporting systems and procedures. New acquisitions, joint ventures and other transactions may require the commitment of significant capital that would otherwise be directed to investments in our existing businesses. Commitment of this capital may cause us to defer or suspend any share repurchases that we otherwise may have made. To pursue acquisitions and other strategic transactions, we may need to raise additional capital in the future, which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. These transactions pose substantial risks and require the commitment of significant capital both to complete the acquisitions and to operate the acquired businesses following their acquisition. These acquisitions may result in significant financial losses if the intended objectives of the transactions are not achieved, and we may lose up to the entire value of our investment in these acquisitions and transactions. Some of the businesses acquired by us have experienced significant operating and financial challenges in their recent history, which in some cases resulted in these businesses commencing bankruptcy proceedings prior to our acquisition. We may acquire similar businesses in the future. There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully address the challenges and risks encountered by these businesses following their acquisition. If we are unable to successfully address these challenges and risks, our business, financial condition or results of operations may likely suffer. 37 Table of Contents For example, we have recently been engaged in discussions regarding a potential strategic transaction with Clearwire Corporation (“Clearwire”). On January 8, 2013, Clearwire issued a press release summarizing the proposed transaction at that time. Later that day, we confirmed that we had formally approached Clearwire with respect to a potential strategic transaction on the terms and conditions generally outlined in Clearwire’s press release. The terms and conditions for a potential strategic transaction at that time disclosed by Clearwire generally provided for the following, among others: (i) we would acquire approximately 24% of Clearwire’s total spectrum, for approximately $2.2 billion; and (ii) we would make an offer to purchase up to all of Clearwire’s outstanding shares at a price of $3.30 per share in cash. This offer would be subject to certain conditions, including that we acquire no less than 25% of the fully-diluted shares of Clearwire and receive certain governance and minority protection rights. There is no assurance that we will continue discussions with Clearwire or that we will ultimately be able to conclude a transaction with Clearwire upon the terms outlined above or at all. To the extent that we are able to conclude a transaction with Clearwire, we may be required to commit a significant portion of our cash and marketable securities to fund these arrangements, and these commitments may cause us to defer or curtail investments in our core business, strategic investments, share repurchases or other transactions that we otherwise may have made. Furthermore, Clearwire has experienced significant operating and financial challenges in its recent history. Therefore, any investment we may make in Clearwire will be speculative, and we may lose all of the investment. In addition, we may be required to spend additional capital or raise additional capital to support an investment in Clearwire’s business and to build out a network to utilize the spectrum acquired, which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop and implement a business model that will realize a return on a possible transaction with Clearwire or that we will be able to profitably deploy the spectrum assets, which may affect the carrying value of these assets and our future financial condition or results of operations. If we are unable to successfully address these challenges and risks, our business, financial condition or results of operations will likely suffer. We may need additional capital, which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all, to continue investing in our businesses and to finance acquisitions and other strategic transactions. We may need to raise additional capital in the future, which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all, to among other things, continue investing in our business, construct and launch new satellites, and to pursue acquisitions and other strategic transactions. Furthermore, weakness in the equity markets could make it difficult for us to raise equity financing without incurring substantial dilution to our existing shareholders. In addition, sustained economic weakness or weak results of operations may limit our ability to generate sufficient internal cash to fund these investments, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other strategic transactions. As a result, these conditions make it difficult for us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities because we may not have access to funding sources necessary for us to pursue organic and strategic business development opportunities. A portion of our investment portfolio is invested in securities that have experienced limited or no liquidity and may not be immediately accessible to support our financing needs, including investments in public companies that are highly speculative and have experienced and continue to experience volatility. A portion of our investment portfolio is invested in auction rate securities and strategic investments, and as a result, a portion of our portfolio has restricted liquidity. Liquidity in the markets for these investments has been adversely impacted. If the credit ratings of these securities deteriorate or the lack of liquidity in the marketplace continues, we may be required to record further impairment charges. Moreover, the sustained uncertainty of domestic and global financial markets has greatly affected the volatility and value of our marketable investment securities. In addition, a portion of our investment portfolio includes strategic and financial investments in debt and equity securities of public companies that are highly speculative and have experienced and continue to experience volatility. Typically, these investments are concentrated in a small number of companies. The fair value of these investments can be significantly impacted by the risk of adverse changes in securities markets generally, as well as risks related to the performance of the companies whose securities we have invested in, risks associated with specific industries, and other factors. These investments are subject to significant fluctuations in fair value due to the volatility of the securities markets and of the underlying businesses. The concentration of these investments as a percentage of our overall investment portfolio fluctuates from time to time based on, among other things, the size of our investment 38 Table of Contents portfolio and our ability to liquidate these investments. In addition, because our portfolio may be concentrated in a limited number of companies, we may experience a significant loss if any of these companies, among other things, defaults on its obligations, performs poorly, does not generate adequate cash flow to fund its operations, is unable to obtain necessary financing on acceptable terms, or at all, or files for bankruptcy, or if the sectors in which these companies operate experience a market downturn. To the extent we require access to funds, we may need to sell these securities under unfavorable market conditions, record further impairment charges and fall short of our financing needs. We have substantial debt outstanding and may incur additional debt. As of December 31, 2012, our total debt, including the debt of our subsidiaries, was $11.888 billion. Our debt levels could have significant consequences, including: · requiring us to devote a substantial portion of our cash to make interest and principal payments on our debt, thereby reducing the amount of cash available for other purposes. As a result, we would have limited financial and operating flexibility in responding to changing economic and competitive conditions; · limiting our ability to raise additional debt because it may be more difficult for us to obtain debt financing on attractive terms; and · placing us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged. In addition, we may incur substantial additional debt in the future. The terms of the indentures relating to our senior notes permit us to incur additional debt. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the risks we now face could intensify. It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so may be beneficial to our shareholders, because of our ownership structure. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company that a shareholder may consider favorable. These provisions include the following: · a capital structure with multiple classes of common stock: a Class A that entitles the holders to one vote per share, a Class B that entitles the holders to ten votes per share, a Class C that entitles the holders to one vote per share, except upon a change in control of our company in which case the holders of Class C are entitled to ten votes per share; · a provision that authorizes the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock, which could be issued by our Board of Directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; · a provision limiting who may call special meetings of shareholders; and · a provision establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by shareholders at shareholder meetings. In addition, pursuant to our certificate of incorporation we have a significant amount of authorized and unissued stock which would allow our Board of Directors to issue shares to persons friendly to current management, thereby protecting the continuity of its management, or which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of persons seeking to obtain control of us. We are controlled by one principal stockholder who is also our Chairman. Charles W. Ergen, our Chairman, owns approximately 51.0% of our total equity securities (assuming conversion of all Class B Common Stock into Class A Common Stock) and beneficially owns approximately 52.1% of our total equity securities (assuming conversion of only the Class B Common Stock held by Mr. Ergen into Class A Common Stock). Under either a beneficial or equity calculation method, Mr. Ergen controls approximately 88.0% of the total voting power. Mr. Ergen’s beneficial ownership of shares of Class A Common Stock excludes 9,886,441 shares of Class A Common Stock issuable upon conversion of shares of Class B Common Stock currently held by certain trusts established by Mr. Ergen for the benefit of his family. These trusts own approximately 2.2% of our total equity securities (assuming conversion of all Class B Common Stock into Class A Common Stock) and beneficially own approximately 4.4% of our total equity securities (assuming conversion of only the Class B Common Stock held by such trusts into Class A Common Stock). Under either a beneficial or equity calculation method, these trusts possess approximately 3.8% of the total voting power. Through his voting 39 Table of Contents power, Mr. Ergen has the ability to elect a majority of our directors and to control all other matters requiring the approval of our stockholders. As a result, DISH Network is a “controlled company” as defined in the Nasdaq listing rules and is, therefore, not subject to Nasdaq requirements that would otherwise require us to have: (i) a majority of independent directors; (ii) a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors; (iii) compensation of our executive officers determined by a majority of the independent directors or a compensation committee composed solely of independent directors; and (iv) director nominees selected, or recommended for the Board’s selection, either by a majority of the independent directors or a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors. Mr. Ergen is also the principal stockholder and Chairman of EchoStar. Legal and Regulatory Risks Affecting our Business Our business depends on certain intellectual property rights and on not infringing the intellectual property rights of others. We rely on our patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, as well as licenses and other agreements with our vendors and other parties, to use our technologies, conduct our operations and sell our products and services. Legal challenges to our intellectual property rights and claims of intellectual property infringement by third parties could require that we enter into royalty or licensing agreements on unfavorable terms, incur substantial monetary liability or be enjoined preliminarily or permanently from further use of the intellectual property in question or from the continuation of our businesses as currently conducted, which could require us to change our business practices or limit our ability to compete effectively or could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Even if we believe any such challenges or claims are without merit, they can be time-consuming and costly to defend and divert management’s attention and resources away from our business. During the second quarter 2012, the four major broadcast television networks filed lawsuits against us alleging, among other things, that the PrimeTime Anytime and AutoHop features of the Hopper set-top box infringe their copyrights. In the event a court ultimately determines that we infringe the asserted copyrights, we may be subject to, among other things, an injunction that could require us to materially modify or cease to offer these features. Moreover, because of the rapid pace of technological change, we rely on technologies developed or licensed by third parties, and if we are unable to obtain or continue to obtain licenses from these third parties on reasonable terms, our business, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. We are party to various lawsuits which, if adversely decided, could have a significant adverse impact on our business, particularly lawsuits regarding intellectual property. We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims which arise in the ordinary course of business, including among other things, disputes with programmers regarding fees. Many entities, including some of our competitors, have or may in the future obtain patents and other intellectual property rights that cover or affect products or services related to those that we offer. In general, if a court determines that one or more of our products or services infringes on intellectual property held by others, we may be required to cease developing or marketing those products or services, to obtain licenses from the holders of the intellectual property at a material cost, or to redesign those products or services in such a way as to avoid infringing the intellectual property. If those intellectual property rights are held by a competitor, we may be unable to obtain the intellectual property at any price, which could adversely affect our competitive position. Please see further discussion under “Item 1. Business — Patents and Other Intellectual Property” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may not be aware of all intellectual property rights that our services or the products used in connection with our services may potentially infringe. In addition, patent applications in the United States are confidential until the Patent and Trademark Office either publishes the application or issues a patent (whichever arises first). Therefore, it is difficult to evaluate the extent to which our services or the products used in connection with our services may infringe claims contained in pending patent applications. Further, it is often not possible to determine definitively whether a claim of infringement is valid. Our ability to distribute video content via the Internet involves regulatory risk. As a result of recent updates to certain of our programming agreements which allow us to, among other things, deliver certain authenticated content via the Internet, we are increasingly distributing video content to our 40 Table of Contents subscribers via the Internet. The ability to continue this strategy may depend in part on the FCC’s success in implementing rules prohibiting discrimination against our distribution of content over networks owned by broadband and wireless Internet providers. For more information, see “Item 1. Business — Government Regulations — FCC Regulations Governing our DBS Operations — Net Neutrality” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Changes in the Cable Act, and/or the FCC’s rules that implement the Cable Act, may limit our ability to access programming from cable-affiliated programmers at non-discriminatory rates. We purchase a large percentage of our programming from cable-affiliated programmers. Pursuant to the Cable Act, cable providers had been prohibited from entering into exclusive contracts with cable-affiliated programmers. The Cable Act directed that this prohibition expire after a certain period of time unless the FCC determined that the prohibition continued to be necessary. On October 5, 2012, the FCC allowed this prohibition to expire. While the FCC has issued a Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking aimed at serving some of the same objectives as the prohibition, there can be no assurances that such protections will be adopted or be as effective as the prohibition if they are adopted. In the event this decision is reconsidered by the FCC or reviewed by a court of appeals, we cannot predict the timing or outcome of any subsequent FCC decision. As a result of the expiration of this prohibition on exclusivity, we may be limited in our ability to obtain access at all, or on nondiscriminatory terms, to programming from programmers that are affiliated with cable system operators. In addition, any other changes in the Cable Act, and/or the FCC’s rules that implement the Cable Act, that currently limit the ability of cable-affiliated programmers to discriminate against competing businesses such as ours, could adversely affect our ability to acquire cable-affiliated programming at all or to acquire programming on non-discriminatory terms. Furthermore, the FCC had imposed program access conditions on certain cable companies as a result of mergers, consolidations or affiliations with programmers. The expiration of the exclusivity prohibition in the Cable Act triggered the termination of certain program access conditions that the FCC had imposed on Liberty Media (“Liberty”). In July 2012, similar program access conditions that had applied to Time-Warner expired as previously scheduled. These developments may adversely affect our ability to obtain Liberty’s and Time-Warner’s programming, or to obtain it on non-discriminatory terms. In the case of certain types of programming affiliated with Comcast through its venture with General Electric, NBCUniversal, the prohibition on exclusivity will still apply until January 2018. During that time, we have the right to subject the terms of access to NBCUniversal’s programming to binding arbitration if we and the programmer cannot reach agreement on terms, subject to FCC review. There can be no assurance that this procedure will result in favorable terms for us or that the FCC conditions that establish this procedure will be prevented from expiring on their own terms. In addition, affiliates of certain cable providers have denied us access to sports programming they feed to their cable systems terrestrially, rather than by satellite. The FCC has held that new denials of such service are unfair if they have the purpose or effect of significantly hindering us from providing programming to consumers. However, we cannot be sure that we can prevail in a complaint related to such programming and gain access to it. Our continuing failure to access such programming could materially and adversely affect our ability to compete in regions serviced by these cable providers. The injunction against our retransmission of distant networks, which is currently waived, may be reinstated. Pursuant to STELA, we have been able to obtain a waiver of a court injunction that previously prevented us from retransmitting certain distant network signals under a statutory copyright license. Because of that waiver, we may once again provide distant network signals to eligible subscribers. To qualify for that waiver, we are required to provide local service in all 210 local markets in the U.S. on an ongoing basis. This condition poses a significant strain on our capacity. Moreover, we may lose that waiver if we are found to have failed to provide local service in any of the 210 local markets. If we lose the waiver, the injunction could be reinstated. Furthermore, depending on the severity of the failure, we may also be subject to other sanctions, which may include, among other things, damages. Pursuant to STELA, our compliance with certain conditions of the waiver is subject to continued oversight. 41 Table of Contents We are subject to significant regulatory oversight, and changes in applicable regulatory requirements, including any adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to the Internet, could adversely affect our business. Our operations, particularly our DBS operations and our wireless spectrum licenses, are subject to significant government regulation, primarily by the FCC and, to a certain extent, by Congress, other federal agencies and foreign, state and local authorities. Depending upon the circumstances, noncompliance with legislation or regulations promulgated by these entities could result in the suspension or revocation of our licenses or registrations, the termination or loss of contracts or the imposition of contractual damages, civil fines or criminal penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, the adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to video programming, satellite services, wireless communications, broadband, the Internet or other areas of our business could limit or otherwise adversely affect the manner in which we currently conduct our business. If we become subject to new regulations or legislation or new interpretations of existing regulations or legislation that govern Internet network neutrality, for example, we may be required to incur additional expenses or alter our business model. The manner in which legislation governing Internet network neutrality may be interpreted and enforced cannot be precisely determined, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. You should review the regulatory disclosures under the caption “Item 1. Business — Government Regulations” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our business depends on FCC licenses that can expire or be revoked or modified and applications for FCC licenses that may not be granted. If the FCC were to cancel, revoke, suspend, restrict, significantly condition, or fail to renew any of our licenses or authorizations, or fail to grant our applications for FCC licenses, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Specifically, loss of a frequency authorization would reduce the amount of spectrum available to us, potentially reducing the amount of services available to our subscribers. The materiality of such a loss of authorizations would vary based upon, among other things, the location of the frequency used or the availability of replacement spectrum. In addition, Congress often considers and enacts legislation that affects us and FCC proceedings to implement the Communications Act and enforce its regulations are ongoing. We cannot predict the outcomes of these legislative or regulatory proceedings or their effect on our business. We are subject to digital HD “carry-one, carry-all” requirements that cause capacity constraints. To provide any full-power local broadcast signal in any market, we are required to retransmit all qualifying broadcast signals in that market (“carry-one, carry-all”). The FCC adopted digital carriage rules that required DBS providers to phase in carry-one, carry-all obligations with respect to the carriage of full-power broadcasters’ HD signals by February 17, 2013 in markets in which they elect to provide local channels in HD. We have met this requirement in all applicable markets. In addition, STELA has imposed accelerated HD carriage requirements for noncommercial educational stations on DBS providers that do not have a certain contractual relationship with a certain number of such stations. We have entered into such contractual relationships with the requisite number of PBS stations to comply with the requirements. The carriage of additional HD signals on our pay-TV service could cause us to experience significant capacity constraints and prevent us from carrying additional popular national programs and/or carrying those national programs in HD. In addition, there is a pending rulemaking before the FCC regarding whether to require DBS providers to carry all broadcast stations in a local market in both standard definition and HD if they carry any station in that market in both standard definition and HD. If we were required to carry multiple versions of each broadcast station, we would have to dedicate more of our finite satellite capacity to each broadcast station. We cannot predict the outcome or timing of that rulemaking process. There can be no assurance that there will not be deficiencies leading to material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. We periodically evaluate and test our internal control over financial reporting to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our evaluation of internal control over financial reporting for 2012 did not include 42 Table of Contents the internal control of DBSD North America and TerreStar, which we acquired on March 9, 2012. We are currently integrating policies, processes, people, technology and operations for each of the combined companies. Management will continue to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting as we execute integration activities. Except as discussed above, our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2012. If in the future we are unable to report that our internal control over financial reporting is effective (or if our auditors do not agree with our assessment of the effectiveness of, or are unable to express an opinion on, our internal control over financial reporting), investors, customers and business partners could lose confidence in the accuracy of our financial reports, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, investor confidence in our financial results may weaken, and our stock price may suffer. We may face other risks described from time to time in periodic and current reports we file with the SEC. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 43 Table of Contents 