Item 1A Risk Factors Discussion of our business and operations included in this annual report on Form 10-K should be read together with the risk factors set forth below. They describe various risks and uncertainties to which we are or may become subject. These risks and uncertainties, together with other factors described elsewhere in this report, have the potential to affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies or prospects in a material and adverse manner. New risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our financial performance. Each of the risks described below could adversely impact the value of our securities. These statements, like all statements in this report, speak only as of the date of this report (unless another date is indicated), and we undertake no obligation to update or revise the statements in light of future developments. We cannot assure you that the Company will be successful in commercializing any of the Company’s products and, in particular, the Medicsight products or the Medicexchange portal, or if any of the products or the portal are commercialized, that they will prove to be profitable for the Company. The Company has only had a limited operating history and has just commenced generating revenue from operations upon which an evaluation of its prospects can be made. The Company’s prospects must be considered keeping in mind the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered in the establishment of a new business in a constantly changing industry. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to achieve profitable operations in the foreseeable future if at all. The Company has identified a number of specific risk areas that may affect the Company’s operations and results in the future: Company specific risks We may be unable to develop our existing or future technology. Our Medicsight CAD system may not deliver the levels of accuracy and reliability needed to make it a successful product in the market place. Additionally, the development of such accuracy and reliability may be indefinitely delayed or may never be achieved. Failure to develop this or other technology could have an adverse material effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. The market for our technology may be slow to develop, if at all. The market for the Medicsight CAD products may be slower to develop or smaller than estimated or it may be more difficult to build the market than anticipated. The medical community may resist Medicsight CAD products or be slower to accept them than we anticipate. Revenues from Medicsight CAD may be delayed or costs may be higher than anticipated which may result in the Company requiring additional funding. Medicsight’s principal route to market is via commercial distribution partners. These arrangements are generally non-exclusive and have no guaranteed sales volumes or commitments. The partners may be slower to sell our products than anticipated. Any financial, operational or regulatory risks that affect our partners could also affect the sales of our products. In the current economic environment, hospitals and clinical purchasing budgets that are reliant on external debt finance may result in purchasing decisions being delayed. If any of these situations were to occur this could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. We may be slow to receive required regulatory approvals from respective government regulators, if we receive them at all. The Medicsight CAD system is subject to regulatory requirements in the USA, Europe, Japan, China and our other targeted markets. Necessary regulatory approvals may not be obtained or may be delayed. We may incur substantial additional cost in obtaining regulatory approvals for our products in our targeted markets. Any delays in obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals increase the risk that our competitors’ products are approved before our own. The failure to obtain these approvals on a timely basis and/or the associated costs could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. The medical imaging market we operate in is highly competitive. There are a number of groups and organizations, such as software companies in the medical imaging field, MDCT scanner manufacturers, screening companies and other healthcare providers that may develop a competitive offering to the Medicsight CAD products. In addition, these competitors may have significantly greater resources than MGT. We cannot make any assurance that they will not attempt to develop such offerings, that they will not be successful in developing such offerings or that any offerings they may develop will not have a competitive edge over Medicsight CAD products. With delayed regulatory approvals and/or disputed clinical claims we may not have a commercial or clinical advantage over competitors’ products. Should a superior offering come to market, this could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. We are a developing company with limited revenues from operations. 9 We have incurred significant operating losses since inception and have only recently commenced generating revenues from operations. As a result, we have generated negative cash flows from operations and have an accumulated deficit as of December 31, 2010. We are operating in a developing industry based on new technology and our primary source of funds to date has been through the issuance of securities and borrowed funds. There can be no assurance that management’s efforts will be successful or that the products we develop and market will be accepted by consumers. If our products are ultimately unsuccessful in the market, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. We face financial risks as we are a developing company We have incurred significant operating losses since inception and have limited revenue from operations. As a result, we have generated negative cash flows from operations and our cash balances continue to reduce. While we are optimistic and believe appropriate actions are being taken to mitigate this, there can be no assurance that attempts to reduce cash outflows will be successful and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations. Our current corporate structure may place us in an unfavorable market position vis-à-vis our competitors. MGT’s corporate structure may make it more difficult or costly to take certain actions. We conduct our business through: (a) Medicsight, a UK public company which is 55% owned by the MGT Capital Investments, Inc. and through Medicsight’s subsidiaries in the United Kingdom, the USA, Japan and Gibraltar. Although MGT and Medicsight share some directors and management, they are required to comply with corporate governance and rules applicable to public companies in the United Kingdom and the USA. Should MGT propose to take any action, such as a transfer or allocation of assets or liabilities between MGT and its subsidiaries, MGT would have to take into consideration the potentially conflicting interests of MGT’s stockholders and the non-controlling stockholders. This may deter MGT from taking such actions that might otherwise be in the best interest of MGT or cause MGT to incur additional costs in taking such actions. The subsidiary companies would not be able to pay dividends or make other distributions of profits or assets to MGT without making pro-rata payments or distributions to the respective non-controlling stockholders. Although neither the subsidiary nor MGT has plans to pay dividends or make distributions to its shareholders, MGT’s corporate structure may deter its subsidiary from doing so in the future. If at any point we are ultimately unable to resolve any of these conflicts, this could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. The protection of our intellectual property may be uncertain, and we may face possible claims of others. Although we have received patents and have filed patent applications with respect to certain aspects of our technology, we generally do not rely on patent protection with respect to our products and technologies. Instead, we rely primarily on a combination of trade secret and copyright law, employee and third-party non-disclosure agreements and other protective measures to protect intellectual property rights pertaining to our products and technologies. Such measures may not provide meaningful protection of our trade secrets, know-how or other intellectual property in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure. Others may independently develop similar technologies or duplicate our technologies. In addition, to the extent that we apply for any patents, such applications may not result in issued patents or, if issued, such patents may not be valid or of value. Third parties could, in the future, assert infringement or misappropriation claims against us with respect to our current or future products and technologies, or we may need to assert claims of infringement against third parties. Any infringement or misappropriation claim by us or against us could place significant strain on our financial resources, divert management’s attention from our business and harm our reputation. The costs of prosecuting or defending an intellectual property claim could be substantial and could adversely affect our business, even if we are ultimately successful in prosecuting or defending any such claims. If our products or technologies are found to infringe the rights of a third party, we could be required to pay significant damages or license fees or cease production, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If a claim is brought against us, or we ultimately prove unsuccessful on the claims on our merits, this could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. We may fail to attract and retain qualified personnel. We expect to rapidly expand our operations and grow our sales, research and development and administrative operations. This expansion is expected to place a significant strain on our management and will require hiring a significant number of qualified personnel. Accordingly, recruiting and retaining such personnel in the future will be critical to our success. There is intense competition from other companies, research and academic institutions, government entities and other organizations for qualified personnel in the areas of our activities. If we fail to identify, attract, retain and motivate these highly skilled personnel, we may be unable to continue our marketing and development activities, and this could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. 10 If we do not effectively manage changes in our business, these changes could place a significant strain on our management and operations. Our ability to grow successfully requires an effective planning and management process. The expansion and growth of our business could place a significant strain on our management systems, infrastructure and other resources. To manage our growth successfully, we must continue to improve and expand our systems and infrastructure in a timely and efficient manner. Our controls, systems, procedures and resources may not be adequate to support a changing and growing company. If our management fails to respond effectively to changes and growth in our business, including acquisitions, this could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. We face risks arising from foreign currency exchange. As our main operating currency is UK sterling and its financial statements are reported in US dollars, MGT’s assets and liabilities and results of operations are affected by movements in the $:£ exchange rate. Should there be large or unexpected fluctuations in the $:£ exchange rate, this could have a material effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. We currently do not engage in hedging activities to minimize the effect of adverse movements in the exchange rate. We may not be able to quickly realize our investments and receivables at the value at which we have recorded them. We have a number of investments and receivables held at both at market value and at cost. There is a risk that we may not be able to swiftly realize these investments and receivables at the fair value or cost at which they are recorded in the financial statements. If we are unable to quickly realize these investments and receivables at prices we believe to be fair, this could have a material effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. General market risks We may not be able to access credit. We face the risk that we may not be able to access credit, either from lenders or suppliers, or have facilities reduced or terminated. Failure to access credit from any of these sources could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Recent global economic trends could adversely affect our business, liquidity and financial results. Recent global economic conditions, including disruption of financial markets, could adversely affect us, primarily through limiting our access to capital and disrupting our clients’ businesses. In addition, continuation or worsening of general market conditions in economies important to our businesses may adversely affect our clients’ level of spending and ability to obtain financing, leading to us being unable to generate the levels of sales that we require. Current and continued disruption of financial markets could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. We may not be able to maintain effective internal controls. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal accounting controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could cause us to face regulatory action and also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, either of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Securities Market Risks Our stock price and trading volume may be volatile, which could result in losses for our stockholders. The equity markets may experience periods of volatility, which could result in highly variable and unpredictable pricing of equity securities. The market price of our common stock could change in ways that may or may not be related to our business, our industry or our operating performance and financial condition and could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock. We cannot predict the potential impact of these periods of volatility on the price of our common stock. The Company cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. 11 We may not continue to meet the Listing Standards of the NYSE Amex Market The staff of NYSE Amex has notified the Company that since the Company’s shares have been selling for a substantial period of time at a low price per share, the Company is not in compliance with the NYSE Amex Company Guide’s listing standards for continued listing of the Company’s common stock on the NYSE Amex. In this regard, the Company shall either effect a reverse split of such shares within a reasonable time after being notified that NYSE deems such action to be appropriate under all the circumstances or take other appropriate action in order to maintain the listing of the Company’s common stock on the NYSE Amex. The Company intends to call a stockholder meeting to approve a reverse stock split. There is no assurance that if approved by the Company’s stockholders and if effectuated by the Company’s board, that such reverse stock split will bring the Company into compliance with the NYSE Amex’s listing standards. If our common stock is delisted from the NYSE Amex Market, the Company would be subject to the risks relating to penny stocks. If our common stock were to be delisted from trading on the NYSE Amex Market and the trading price of the common stock were below $5.00 per share on the date the common stock were delisted, trading in our common stock would also be subject to the requirements of certain rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). These rules require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trades involving a stock defined as a "penny stock" and impose various sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell penny stocks to persons other than established customers and accredited investors, generally institutions. These additional requirements may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in securities that are classified as penny stocks, which could severely limit the market price and liquidity of such securities and the ability of purchasers to sell such securities in the secondary market. A penny stock is defined generally as any non-exchange listed equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Natural disasters Impact of Earthquake and Tsunami in Japan We do not believe that the recent earthquake and tsunami in Japan has had an impact on employees, intellectual property or clinical data; however, the Company is unable to assess the impact to its MHLW review process at this time. Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 12 