Item 1A. Risk Factors Following are the key risk factors that have affected our net sales and net income in the past and could materially impact our future net sales and net income: Any decline in demand for public water transmission projects could adversely affect our business. Our water transmission business accounted for approximately 70% of our net sales in 2005. Our water transmission revenue is derived from sales related to public water transmission projects. As a result, our sales could be adversely impacted by a change in the number of projects planned by public water agencies or by delays in obtaining environmental approvals and right-of-way permits. Additionally, adjustments in governmental capital spending, budgetary constraints related to capital projects, or the inability of governmental entities to issue debt to finance projects could adversely affect our water transmission sales. Project delays in public water transmission projects could adversely affect our business. The public water agencies constructing water transmission projects generally announce the projects well in advance of the bidding and construction process. It is not unusual for projects to be delayed and rescheduled. Projects are delayed and rescheduled for a number of reasons, including changes in project priorities, difficulties in complying with environmental and other government regulations and additional time required to acquire rights-of-way or property rights. Delays in public water transmission projects may occur with too little notice to allow us to replace those projects in our manufacturing schedules. As a result, our business may be adversely affected by unplanned downtime. We have a significant amount of outstanding debt. We have financed our operations through cash flow from operations, available borrowings and other financing arrangements. The debt we have incurred could adversely affect us because: • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital or other purposes in the future may be limited; • a portion of our cash flow from operations and funds available under our credit agreement is dedicated to the payment of the principal and interest on our debt, which reduces funds available for operations; and • certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest, which cause us to be vulnerable to increases in interest rates. Our ability to make scheduled payments on our debt will depend on our future operating performance and cash flow, which are subject to prevailing economic conditions, prevailing interest rate levels and other financial, competitive and business factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our outstanding debt includes financial covenants that impose certain requirements with respect to our financial condition and results of operations. These covenants place restrictions on, among other things, our ability to incur certain additional indebtedness and to create liens or other encumbrances on assets. A failure to comply with the requirements of these covenants, if not waived or cured, could permit acceleration of the related indebtedness and acceleration of indebtedness under other instruments that include cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. We may be subject to claims for damages for defective products, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We warrant our products to be free of certain defects. Losses may result or be alleged to result from defects in our products, which could subject us to claims for damages, including consequential damages. Any claims relating to defective products that result in liability exceeding our insurance coverage could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuations in steel prices may affect our future operating results. Purchased steel represents a substantial portion of our cost of sales, particularly in our tubular products and fabricated products business. The steel industry 5 is highly cyclical in nature, and, at times, pricing can be highly volatile due to a number of factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, import duties, other trade restrictions and currency exchange rates. This volatility can significantly affect our gross profit. Although we seek to recover increases in steel prices through price increases in our products, we have not always been completely successful. Any increase in steel prices that is not offset by increases in our prices could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is very competitive and increased competition could reduce our gross margins and net income. We face significant competition. Orders in the water transmission business are competitively bid, and price competition can be vigorous. There are many competitors in the tubular products and fabricated products businesses, and price is often a prime consideration for purchase of our products. Price competition may reduce our gross margins, which may adversely affect our net income. Some of our competitors have greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Our business could also be impeded if existing competitors expand, or if they or new competitors establish new facilities within our market areas. Our tubular products business faces intense competition from imports. The level of imports of tubular products affects the domestic tubular products market. High levels of imports may reduce the volume of tubular products sold by domestic producers and depress selling prices of tubular products. We believe that import levels are affected by, among other things, overall worldwide demand for tubular products, the trade practices of foreign governments, government subsidies to foreign producers and governmentally imposed trade restrictions in the United States. Increased imports of tubular products in the United States, Canada, and Mexico could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have foreign operations. Our fabricated products are manufactured at our Monterrey, Mexico facility, primarily for export to the United States. Any material changes in the quotas, regulations, or duties on imports imposed by the United States government and its agencies or on exports imposed by Mexico and its agencies could adversely affect our operations in Mexico. Our foreign activities are also subject to various other risks of doing business in a foreign country, including currency fluctuations, political changes, changes in laws and regulations, and economic instability. Although our operations have not been materially affected by any such factors to date, no assurance can be given that our operations may not be adversely affected in the future. Our water transmission business faces competition from concrete and ductile iron pipe manufacturers. Water transmission pipe is manufactured generally from steel, concrete or ductile iron. Each pipe material has advantages and disadvantages. Steel and concrete are more common materials for larger diameter water transmission pipelines because ductile iron pipe generally is limited in diameter due to its manufacturing process. The public agencies and engineers who determine the specifications for water transmission projects analyze these pipe materials for suitability for each project. Individual project circumstances normally dictate the preferred material. If we experience cost increases in raw material, labor and overhead specific to our industry or the location of our facilities, while competing products or companies do not experience similar changes, we could experience a change in the demand, price and profitability of our products. Our quarterly operating results are subject to significant fluctuation. Our net sales and net income may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter due to the schedule of production of water transmission orders, the seasonal variation in demand for tubular products and fabricated products, fluctuations in the cost of steel and other raw materials, and competitive pressures. Results of operations in any period are not indicative of results for any future period, and comparisons between any two periods may not be meaningful. We depend on our senior management team, and the loss of any member could adversely affect our operations. Our success depends on the management and leadership skills of our senior management team. The loss of any of these individuals, particularly Brian W. Dunham, our president and chief executive officer, or our inability to attract, retain and maintain additional personnel, could prevent us from fully implementing our business strategy. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing senior management personnel or to attract additional qualified personnel when needed. We have not entered into employment agreements with any of our senior management personnel. The success of our business is affected by general economic conditions, and our business may be adversely affected by economic slowdown or recession. Periods of economic slowdown or recession in the United States, 6 or the public perception that one may occur, could decrease the demand for our products, affect the price of our products and adversely impact our business. We have been impacted in the past by the general slowing of the economy and any future economic slowdowns could have an adverse impact on our business. Our stock’s relatively low trading volume may limit your ability to sell your shares. Although our shares of common stock are listed on the Nasdaq National Market, our average daily trading volume over the twelve months ended December 31, 2005 is approximately 18,598 shares. As a result, holders of our shares may have difficulty selling a large number of shares of our common stock in the manner or at a price that might otherwise be attainable if our shares were more actively traded. The market price of our common stock is subject to significant fluctuations. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: • our operating and financial performance and prospects; • quarterly variations in the rate of growth of our financial indicators, such as earnings per share, net income and revenues; • changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports by analysts; • loss of any member of our senior management team; • speculation in the press or investment community; • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructuring; • sales of our common stock by shareholders; • general market conditions; and • domestic and international economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance. The stock markets in general have experienced broad fluctuations that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. We are subject to various environmental laws, which may require us to incur substantial costs, thereby reducing our profits. Failure to comply with environmental laws, regulations and permits, or changes in such laws, including the imposition of more stringent standards for discharges into the environment, could result in substantial operating costs and capital expenditures in order to maintain compliance and could also include fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third party claims for property damage or personal injury, cleanup costs or temporary or permanent discontinuance of operations. Certain of our facilities have been in operation for many years and, over time, we and other predecessor operators of these facilities may have generated, used, handled and disposed of hazardous and other regulated wastes. Environmental liabilities could exist, including cleanup obligations at these or at other locations where materials from our operations were disposed of, which could result in future expenditures that cannot be currently quantified and which could reduce our profits. We have been notified by the Environmental Protection Agency that we may be subject to potential liability in connection with a Superfund Assessment Site in Portland, Oregon. We cannot predict if it will be determined that we have liability with respect to this site, but any such determination could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Certain provisions of our governing documents and Oregon law could discourage potential acquisition proposals. Our articles of incorporation contain provisions that: • classify the board of directors into three classes, each of which serves for a three-year term with one class elected each year; • provide that directors may be removed by shareholders only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of 75% of the outstanding shares of common stock; and • permit the board of directors to issue preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the number of shares constituting any such series, the voting powers and all other rights and preferences of any such series, without any further vote or action by our shareholders. 7 In addition, we are subject to the Oregon Business Combination Act, which imposes certain restrictions on business combination transactions and may encourage parties interested in acquiring us to negotiate in advance with our board of directors. We also have a shareholder rights plan that acts to discourage any person or group from making a tender offer for, or acquiring, more than 15% of our common stock without the approval of our board of directors. Any of these provisions could discourage potential acquisition proposals, could deter, delay or prevent a change in control that our shareholders consider favorable and could depress the market value of our common stock. We face risks in connection with potential acquisitions. Acquiring businesses that complement or expand our operations has been an important element of our business strategy in the past. Although we have not completed an acquisition since 1999, we continue to evaluate potential acquisitions that may expand and complement our business. We may not be able to successfully identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate favorable terms in the future. Furthermore, our ability to effectively integrate any future acquisitions will depend on, among other things, the adequacy of our implementation plans, the ability of our management to oversee and operate effectively the combined operations and our ability to achieve desired operational efficiencies. If we are unable to successfully integrate the operations of any businesses that we may acquire in the future, our earnings and profitability could be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 