Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also become important factors that affect us. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We face intense and increasing competition from satellite and cable television providers, telecommunications companies and providers of video content via the Internet, especially as the pay-TV industry matures, which may require us to increase subscriber acquisition and retention spending or accept lower subscriber acquisitions and higher subscriber churn. Our business is focused on providing pay-TV services and we have traditionally competed against satellite and cable television providers, some of whom have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. Many of these competitors offer video services bundled with broadband, telephony services, HD offerings, interactive services and video on demand services that consumers may find attractive. Moreover, mergers and acquisitions, joint ventures and alliances among cable television providers, telecommunications companies and others may result in, among other things, greater financial leverage and increase the availability of offerings from providers capable of bundling television, broadband and telephone services in competition with our services. We and our competitors increasingly must seek to attract a greater proportion of new subscribers from each other’s existing subscriber bases rather than from first-time purchasers of pay-TV services. In addition, because other pay-TV providers may be seeking to attract a greater proportion of their new subscribers from our existing subscriber base we may be required to increase retention spending. Competition has intensified in recent quarters as the pay-TV industry matures and the growth of video being delivered via the Internet and fiber-based pay-TV services offered by telecommunications companies such as Verizon and AT&T continues. These fiber-based pay-TV services have significantly greater capacity, enabling the telecommunications companies to offer substantial HD programming content as well as bundled services. In addition, the recent growth of video content being delivered via the Internet has made alternatives to traditional pay-TV services available to customers. This increasingly competitive environment may require us to increase subscriber acquisition and retention spending or accept lower subscriber acquisitions and higher subscriber churn. Competition from digital media companies that provide/facilitate the delivery of video content via the Internet, could materially adversely affect us. Our business is focused on pay-TV services, and we face competition from providers of digital media, including those companies that offer online services distributing movies, television shows and other video programming. Moreover, new technologies have been, and will likely continue to be, developed that further increase the number of competitors we face with respect to video services. For example, online platforms that provide for the distribution and viewing of video programming compete with our pay-TV services. These online platforms may cause our subscribers to disconnect our services. In addition, even if our subscribers do not disconnect our services, they may purchase a certain portion of the services that they would have historically purchased from us through these online platforms, such as pay per view movies, resulting in less revenue to us. Some of these companies have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. In particular, programming offered over the Internet has become more prevalent as the speed and quality of broadband and wireless networks have improved. In addition, consumers are spending an increasing amount of time accessing video content via the Internet on their mobile devices. These technological advancements and changes in consumer behavior with regard to the means by which they obtain video content could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition or otherwise disrupt our business. 16 Table of Contents If we are unsuccessful in overturning the District Court’s ruling on Tivo’s motion for contempt, we are not successful in developing and deploying potential new alternative technology and we are unable to reach a license agreement with Tivo on reasonable terms, we would be subject to substantial liability and would be prohibited from offering DVR functionality that would result in a significant loss of subscribers and place us at a significant disadvantage to our competitors. In June 2009, the United States District Court granted Tivo’s motion for contempt finding that our next-generation DVRs continue to infringe Tivo’s intellectual property and awarded Tivo an additional $103 million in supplemental damages and interest for the period from September 2006 through April 2008. In September 2009, the District Court partially granted Tivo’s motion for contempt sanctions. In partially granting Tivo’s motion for contempt sanctions, the District Court awarded $2.25 per DVR subscriber per month for the period from April 2008 to July 2009 (as compared to the award for supplemental damages for the prior period from September 2006 to April 2008, which was based on an assumed $1.25 per DVR subscriber per month). By the District Court’s estimation, the total award for the period from April 2008 to July 2009 is approximately $200 million (the enforcement of the award has been stayed by the District Court pending DISH Network’s appeal of the underlying June 2009 contempt order). As previously disclosed, we increased our accrual for the Tivo litigation to reflect both the supplemental damages award for the period September 2006 to April 2008 and for the estimated cost of alleged software infringement for the period from April 2008 through June 2009. If we are unsuccessful in overturning the District Court’s ruling on Tivo’s motion for contempt, we are not successful in developing and deploying potential new alternative technology and we are unable to reach a license agreement with Tivo on reasonable terms, we may be required to eliminate DVR functionality in all but approximately 192,000 digital set-top boxes in the field and cease distribution of digital set-top boxes with DVR functionality. In that event we would be at a significant disadvantage to our competitors who could continue offering DVR functionality, which would likely result in a significant decrease in new subscriber additions as well as a substantial loss of current subscribers. Furthermore, the inability to offer DVR functionality could cause certain of our distribution channels to terminate or significantly decrease their marketing of DISH Network services. The adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations if the District Court’s contempt order is upheld is likely to be significant. Additionally, the awards described above do not include damages, contempt sanctions or interest for the period after June 2009. In the event that we are unsuccessful in our appeal, we could also have to pay substantial additional damages, contempt sanctions and interest. Depending on the amount of any additional damage or sanction award or any monetary settlement, we may be required to raise additional capital at a time and in circumstances in which we would normally not raise capital. Therefore, any capital we raise may be on terms that are unfavorable to us, which might adversely affect our financial position and results of operations and might also impair our ability to raise capital on acceptable terms in the future to fund our own operations and initiatives. We believe the cost of such capital and its terms and conditions may be substantially less attractive than our previous financings. If we are successful in overturning the District Court’s ruling on Tivo’s motion for contempt, but unsuccessful in defending against any subsequent claim in a new action that our original alternative technology or any potential new alternative technology infringes Tivo’s patent, we could be prohibited from distributing DVRs or could be required to modify or eliminate our then-current DVR functionality in some or all set-top boxes in the field. In that event we would be at a significant disadvantage to our competitors who could continue offering DVR functionality and the adverse effect on our business would be material. We could also have to pay substantial additional damages. Because both we and EchoStar are defendants in the Tivo lawsuit, we and EchoStar are jointly and severally liable to Tivo for any final damages and sanctions that may be awarded by the District Court. We have determined that we are obligated under the agreements entered into in connection with the Spin-off to indemnify EchoStar for substantially all liability arising from this lawsuit. EchoStar contributed an amount equal to its $5 million intellectual property liability limit under the Receiver Agreement. We and EchoStar have further agreed that EchoStar’s $5 million contribution would not exhaust EchoStar’s liability to us for other intellectual property claims that may arise under the Receiver Agreement. We and EchoStar also agreed that we would each be entitled to joint ownership of, and a cross-license to use, any intellectual property developed in connection with any potential new alternative technology. 17 Table of Contents If we do not improve our operational performance and customer satisfaction, our gross new subscriber additions may decrease and our subscriber churn may increase. If we are unable to improve our operational performance and customer satisfaction, we may experience a decrease in gross new subscriber additions and an increase in churn, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. To address our operational inefficiencies, we need to continue to make significant investments in staffing, training, information systems, and other initiatives, primarily in our call center and in-home service operations. These investments are intended to help combat inefficiencies introduced by the increasing complexity of our business, improve customer satisfaction, reduce churn, increase productivity, and allow us to scale better over the long run. We cannot, however, be certain that our spending will ultimately be successful in addressing our operational inefficiencies. In the meantime, we may continue to incur higher costs as a result of both our operational inefficiencies and levels of spending. While we believe that these costs will be outweighed by longer-term benefits, there can be no assurance when or if we will realize these benefits at all. If DISH Network gross new subscriber additions decrease, or if subscriber churn, subscriber acquisition costs or retention costs increase, our financial performance will be adversely affected. We have not always met and may continue to fail to meet our own standards for performing high-quality installations, effectively resolving subscriber issues when they arise, answering subscriber calls in an acceptable timeframe, effectively communicating with our subscriber base, reducing calls driven by the complexity of our business, improving the reliability of certain systems and subscriber equipment, and aligning the interests of certain third party retailers and installers to provide high-quality service. Most of these factors have affected both gross new subscriber additions as well as existing subscriber churn. Our future gross new subscriber additions and subscriber churn may continue to be negatively impacted by these factors, which could in turn adversely affect our revenue growth and results of operations. We may incur increased costs to acquire new and retain existing subscribers. Our subscriber acquisition costs could increase as a result of increased spending for advertising and the installation of more HD and DVR receivers, which are generally more expensive than other receivers. Meanwhile, retention costs may be driven higher by a faster rate of upgrading existing subscribers’ equipment to HD and DVR receivers. Additionally, certain of our promotions, including, among others, pay-in-advance, allow consumers with relatively lower credit scores to become subscribers. These subscribers typically churn at a higher rate. Our subscriber acquisition costs and our subscriber retention costs can vary significantly from period to period and can cause material variability to our net income (loss) and free cash flow. Any material increase in subscriber acquisition or retention costs from current levels could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Economic weakness, including higher unemployment and reduced consumer spending, may adversely affect our ability to grow or maintain our business. A substantial majority of our revenue comes from residential customers whose spending patterns may be affected by sustained economic weakness and uncertainty. Economic weakness and uncertainty persisted during 2010. Our ability to grow or maintain our business may be adversely affected by sustained economic weakness and uncertainty, including the effect of wavering consumer confidence, high unemployment and other factors that may adversely affect the pay-TV industry. In particular, economic weakness and uncertainty could result in the following: · Fewer gross new subscriber additions and increased churn. We could face fewer gross new subscriber additions and increased churn due to, among other things: (i) the sustained weak housing market in the United States combined with lower discretionary spending; (ii) increased price competition for our products and services; and (iii) the potential loss of retailers, who generate a significant portion of our new subscribers, because many of them are small businesses that are more susceptible to the negative effects of economic weakness. In particular, subscriber churn may increase with respect to subscribers who purchase 18 Table of Contents our lower tier programming packages and who may be more sensitive to sustained economic weakness, including, among others, our pay-in-advance subscribers. · Lower average monthly revenue per subscriber (“ARPU”). Our ARPU could be negatively impacted by more aggressive introductory offers by our competitors and the growth of video content being delivered via the Internet. Furthermore, due to lower levels of disposable income, our customers may downgrade to lower cost programming packages, elect not to purchase premium services or pay per view movies or may disconnect our services and choose to replace them with less expensive alternatives such as video content delivered via the Internet, including, among others, video on demand. · Higher subscriber acquisition and retention costs. Our profits may be adversely affected by increased subscriber acquisition and retention costs necessary to attract and retain subscribers during a period of economic weakness. Programming expenses are increasing and could adversely affect our future financial condition and results of operations. Our programming costs currently represent the largest component of our total expense and we expect these costs to continue to increase. The pay-TV industry has continued to experience an increase in the cost of programming, especially local broadcast channels and sports programming. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on our ability to continue to obtain desirable programming and deliver it to our subscribers at competitive prices. When offering new programming, or upon expiration of existing contracts, programming suppliers have historically attempted to increase the rates they charge us for programming. We expect this practice to continue, which, if successful, would increase our programming costs. As a result, our margins may face further pressure if we are unable to renew our long-term programming contracts on favorable pricing and other economic terms. In addition, increases in programming costs could cause us to increase the rates that we charge our subscribers, which could in turn cause our existing subscribers to disconnect our service or cause potential new subscribers to choose not to subscribe to our service. Therefore, we may be unable to pass increased programming costs on to our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We depend on others to provide the programming that we offer to our subscribers and, if we lose access to this programming, our gross new subscriber additions may decline and subscriber churn may increase. We depend on third parties to provide us with programming services. Our programming agreements have remaining terms ranging from less than one to up to several years and contain various renewal and cancellation provisions. We may not be able to renew these agreements on favorable terms or at all, and these agreements may be canceled prior to expiration of their original term. Certain programmers have, in the past, temporarily limited our access to their programming. For example, during the fourth quarter of 2010, our gross subscriber activations and subscriber churn were negatively impacted as a result of multiple programming interruptions related to contract disputes with several content providers. If we are unable to renew any of these agreements or the other parties cancel the agreements, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain substitute programming, or that such substitute programming would be comparable in quality or cost to our existing programming. In addition, loss of access to programming could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including, among other things, our gross subscriber additions and subscriber churn rate. We may be required to make substantial additional investments to maintain competitive programming offerings. We believe that the availability and extent of HD programming continues to be a significant factor in consumers’ choice among pay-TV providers. Other pay-TV providers may have more successfully marketed and promoted their HD programming packages and may also be better equipped and have greater resources to increase their HD offerings to respond to increasing consumer demand for this content. In addition, even though it remains a small portion of the market, consumer demand for 3D televisions and programming will likely increase in the future. We may be required to make substantial additional investments in infrastructure to respond to competitive pressure to 19 Table of Contents deliver additional programming, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively with programming offerings from other pay-TV providers. Technology in our industry changes rapidly and could cause our services and products to become obsolete. We may have to upgrade or replace subscriber equipment and make substantial investments in our infrastructure to remain competitive. Technology in the pay-TV industry changes rapidly as new technologies are developed, which could cause our services and products to become obsolete. Our operating results are dependent to a significant extent upon our ability to continue to introduce new products and services on a timely basis and to reduce costs of our existing products and services. We may not be able to successfully identify new product or service opportunities or develop and market these opportunities in a timely or cost-effective manner. The success of new product development depends on many factors, including proper identification of customer need, cost, timely completion and introduction, differentiation from offerings of competitors and market acceptance. New technologies could also create new competitors for us. For instance, we face increasing consumer demand for the delivery of digital video services via the Internet, including providing TV Everywhere. We expect to continue to face increased threats from companies who use the Internet to deliver digital video services as the speed and quality of broadband and wireless networks continues to improve. We and our suppliers may not be able to keep pace with technological developments. If the new technologies on which we intend to focus our research and development investments fail to achieve acceptance in the marketplace, our competitive position could be negatively impacted causing a reduction in our revenues and earnings. We may also be at a competitive disadvantage in developing and introducing complex new products and technologies because of the substantial costs we may incur in making these products or technologies available across our installed base of over 14 million subscribers. For example, our competitors could use proprietary technologies that are perceived by the market as being superior. Further, after we have incurred substantial costs, one or more of the technologies under our development, or under development by one or more of our strategic partners, could become obsolete prior to it being widely adopted. In addition, delays in the delivery of components or other unforeseen problems associated with our technology may occur that could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate revenue, offer new services and remain competitive. Technological innovation is important to our success and depends, to a significant degree, on the work of technically skilled employees. We rely on EchoStar to design and develop set-top boxes with advanced features and functionality and solutions for providing digital video services via the Internet. If EchoStar is unable to attract and retain appropriately technically skilled employees, our competitive position could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, our competitive position depends in part on our ability to offer new subscribers and upgrade existing subscribers with more advanced equipment, such as receivers with DVR and HD technology and by otherwise making additional infrastructure investments, such as those related to our information technology and call centers. Furthermore, the continued demand for HD programming continues to require investments in additional satellite capacity. We may not be able to pass on to our subscribers the entire cost of these upgrades and infrastructure investments. Increased distribution of video content via the Internet could expose us to regulatory risk. As a result of recent updates to certain of our programming agreements which allow us to, among other things, deliver certain authenticated content via the Internet, we are increasingly distributing content to our subscribers via the Internet. The ability to continue this strategy may depend in part on the FCC’s success in implementing rules prohibiting discrimination of content that is distributed over the networks owned by broadband and wireless Internet providers. For more information, see “Item 1. Business — Government Regulations — FCC Regulations under the Communications Act — Net Neutrality” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 20 Table of Contents Our business depends on certain intellectual property rights and on not infringing the intellectual property rights of others. We rely on our patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, as well as licenses and other agreements with our vendors and other parties, to use our technologies, conduct our operations and sell our products and services. Legal challenges to our intellectual property rights and claims of intellectual property infringement by third parties could require that we enter into royalty or licensing agreements on unfavorable terms, incur substantial monetary liability or be enjoined preliminarily or permanently from further use of the intellectual property in question or from the continuation of our businesses as currently conducted, which could require us to change our business practices or limit our ability to compete effectively or could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Even if we believe any such challenges or claims are without merit, they can be time-consuming and costly to defend and divert management’s attention and resources away from our business. Moreover, because of the rapid pace of technological change, we rely on technologies developed or licensed by third parties, and if we are unable to obtain or continue to obtain licenses from these third parties on reasonable terms, our business, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. Any failure or inadequacy of our information technology infrastructure could harm our business. The capacity, reliability and security of our information technology hardware and software infrastructure (including our billing systems) are important to the operation of our current business, which would suffer in the event of system failures. Likewise, our ability to expand and update our information technology infrastructure in response to our growth and changing needs is important to the continued implementation of our new service offering initiatives. Our inability to expand or upgrade our technology infrastructure could have adverse consequences, which could include the delayed implementation of new service offerings, service or billing interruptions, and the diversion of development resources. For example, during 2011, we expect to begin implementing new interactive voice response, scheduling of in-home service and customer care systems. During 2011, we also plan to begin development and testing of a new billing system that is likely to be installed in 2012. We are relying on third parties for developing key components of these systems and ongoing service after their implementation. Third parties may experience errors or disruptions that could adversely impact us and over which we may have limited control. Interruption, failure and/or delay in transitioning to any of these new systems could disrupt our operations and damage our reputation thus adversely impacting our ability to provide our services, retain our current subscribers and attract new subscribers. As a result, an unsuccessful transition to these new systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our information technology hardware and software infrastructure may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. If one or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize our customer and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our information technology hardware and software infrastructure, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations, which could result in significant losses or reputational damage. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses. We may need additional capital, which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all, to continue investing in our business and to finance acquisitions and other strategic transactions. We may need to raise additional capital in the future, which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all, to among other things, continue investing in our business, construct and launch new satellites, and to pursue acquisitions and other strategic transactions. Furthermore, weakness in the equity markets could make it difficult for us to raise equity financing without incurring substantial dilution to our existing shareholders. In addition, sustained economic weakness or weak results of operations may limit our ability to generate sufficient internal cash to fund these investments, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other strategic transactions. As a result, these conditions make it difficult for us to 21 Table of Contents accurately forecast and plan future business activities because we may not have access to funding sources necessary for us to pursue organic and strategic business development opportunities. If Voom prevails in its breach of contract suit against us, we could be required to pay substantial damages, which would have a material adverse affect on our financial position and results of operations. In January 2008, Voom HD Holdings (“Voom”) filed a lawsuit against us in New York Supreme Court, alleging breach of contract and other claims arising from our termination of the affiliation agreement governing carriage of certain Voom HD channels on the DISH Network satellite TV service. At that time, Voom also sought a preliminary injunction to prevent us from terminating the agreement. The Court denied Voom’s request, finding, among other things, that Voom had not demonstrated that it was likely to prevail on the merits. In April 2010, we and Voom each filed motions for summary judgment. Voom later filed two motions seeking discovery sanctions. On November 9, 2010, the Court issued a decision denying both motions for summary judgment, but granting Voom’s motions for discovery sanctions. The Court’s decision provides for an adverse inference jury instruction at trial and precludes our damages expert from testifying at trial. We appealed the grant of Voom’s motion for discovery sanctions to the New York State Supreme Court, Appellate Division, First Department. On February 15, 2011, the appellate Court granted our motion to stay the trial pending our appeal. Voom is claiming over $2.5 billion in damages. If we are unsuccessful in our suit with Voom, we may be required to pay substantial damages, which would have a material adverse affect on our financial position and results of operations. A portion of our investment portfolio is invested in securities that have experienced limited or no liquidity and may not be immediately accessible to support our financing needs. A portion of our investment portfolio is invested in auction rate securities, mortgage backed securities, and strategic investments, and as a result a portion of our portfolio has restricted liquidity. Liquidity in the markets for these investments has been adversely impacted. If the credit ratings of these securities deteriorate or the lack of liquidity in the marketplace continues, we may be required to record impairment charges. Moreover, the sustained uncertainty of domestic and global financial markets has greatly affected the volatility and value of our marketable investment securities. To the extent we require access to funds, we may need to sell these securities under unfavorable market conditions, record further impairment charges and fall short of our financing needs. We rely on EchoStar to design and develop all of our new set-top boxes and certain related components, and to provide transponder capacity, digital broadcast operations and other services to us. Our business would be adversely affected if EchoStar ceases to provide these services to us and we are unable to obtain suitable replacement services from third parties. EchoStar is our sole supplier of digital set-top boxes and digital broadcast operations. In addition, EchoStar is a key supplier of transponder capacity and related services to us. Our digital set-top box purchases are made and digital broadcast operations are received pursuant to contracts that generally expire on January 1, 2012. EchoStar has no obligation to supply digital set-top boxes or digital broadcast operations to us after that date. We may be unable to renew agreements for digital set-top boxes or digital broadcast operations with EchoStar on acceptable terms or at all. Equipment, transponder leasing and digital broadcast operation costs may increase beyond our current expectations. EchoStar’s inability to develop and produce, or our inability to obtain, equipment with the latest technology, or our inability to obtain transponder capacity and digital broadcast operations and other services from third parties, could affect our subscriber acquisition and churn and cause related revenue to decline. Furthermore, due to the lack of compatibility of our infrastructure with the set-top boxes of a provider other than EchoStar, any transition to a new supplier of set-top boxes could take a significant period of time to complete, cause us to incur significant costs and negatively affect our gross new subscriber additions and subscriber churn. For example, the proprietary nature of the Sling technology and certain other technology used in EchoStar’s set-top boxes may significantly limit our ability to obtain set-top boxes with the same or similar features from any other provider of set-top boxes. If we were to switch to another provider of set-top boxes, we may have to implement additional infrastructure to support the set-top boxes purchased from such new provider, which could significantly increase our costs. In 22 Table of Contents addition, differences in, among other things, the user interface between set-top boxes provided by EchoStar and those of any other provider could cause subscriber confusion, which could increase our costs and have a material adverse effect on our gross new subscriber additions and subscriber churn. Furthermore, switching to a new provider of set-top boxes may cause a reduction in our supply of set-top boxes and thus delay our ability to ship set-top boxes, which could have a material adverse effect on our gross new subscriber additions and subscriber churn rate. We rely on one or a limited number of vendors, and the inability of these key vendors to meet our needs could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have contracted with a limited number of vendors to provide certain key products or services to us such as information technology support, billing systems, and security access devices. Our dependence on these vendors makes our operations vulnerable to such third parties’ failure to perform adequately. In addition, we have historically relied on a single source for certain items. If these vendors are unable to meet our needs because they are no longer in business, they are experiencing shortages or they discontinue a certain product or service we need, our business, financial position and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our inability to develop alternative sources quickly and on a cost-effective basis could materially impair our ability to timely deliver our products to our subscribers or operate our business. Furthermore, our vendors may request changes in pricing, payment terms or other contractual obligations between the parties, which could cause us to make substantial additional investments. Our programming signals are subject to theft, and we are vulnerable to other forms of fraud that could require us to make significant expenditures to remedy. Increases in theft of our signal or our competitors’ signals could, in addition to reducing new subscriber activations, also cause subscriber churn to increase. We use microchips embedded in credit card-sized cards, called “smart cards,” or security chips in our receiver systems to control access to authorized programming content (“Security Access Devices”). Our signal encryption has been compromised in the past and may be compromised in the future even though we continue to respond with significant investment in security measures, such as Security Access Device replacement programs and updates in security software, that are intended to make signal theft more difficult. It has been our prior experience that security measures may only be effective for short periods of time or not at all and that we remain susceptible to additional signal theft. During 2009, we completed the replacement of our Security Access Devices and re-secured our system. We expect additional future replacements of these devices will be necessary to keep our system secure. We cannot ensure that we will be successful in reducing or controlling theft of our programming content and we may incur additional costs in the future if our system’s security is compromised. We are also vulnerable to other forms of fraud. While we are addressing certain fraud through a number of actions, including terminating retailers that we believe were in violation of DISH Network’s business rules, there can be no assurance that we will not continue to experience fraud which could impact our subscriber growth and churn. Sustained economic weakness may create greater incentive for signal theft and other forms of fraud, which could lead to higher subscriber churn and reduced revenue. We depend on third parties to solicit orders for DISH Network services that represent a significant percentage of our total gross subscriber acquisitions. Most of our retailers are not exclusive to us and may favor our competitors’ products and services over ours based on the relative financial arrangements associated with selling our products and those of our competitors. Furthermore, most of these retailers are significantly smaller than we are and may be more susceptible to sustained economic weaknesses that make it more difficult for them to operate profitably. Because our retailers receive most of their incentive value at activation and not over an extended period of time, our interests in obtaining and retaining subscribers through good customer service may not always be aligned with our retailers. It may be difficult to better align our interests with our resellers’ because of their capital and liquidity constraints. Loss of these relationships could have an adverse effect on our subscriber base and certain of our other key operating metrics because we may not be able to develop comparable alternative distribution channels. 23 Table of Contents Our competitors may be able to leverage their relationships with programmers so that they are able to reduce their programming costs and offer exclusive content that will place them at a competitive advantage to us. The cost of programming represents the largest percentage of our overall costs. Certain of our competitors own directly or are affiliated with companies that own programming content that may enable them to obtain lower programming costs or offer exclusive programming that may be attractive to prospective subscribers. Unlike our larger cable and satellite competitors, we have not made significant investments in programming providers. For example, Comcast and General Electric have joined their programming properties, including NBC, Bravo and many others that are available in the majority of our programming packages, in a venture to be controlled by Comcast. This transaction may affect us adversely by, among other things, making it more difficult for us to obtain access to their programming networks on nondiscriminatory and fair terms, or at all. The transaction was approved by the FCC and the Department of Justice in January 2011. The FCC conditioned its approval on, among other things, Comcast complying with the terms of the FCC’s recent order on network neutrality (even if that order is vacated by judicial or legislative action) and Comcast licensing its affiliated content to us, other traditional pay-TV providers and certain providers of video services over the Internet on fair and nondiscriminatory terms and conditions, including, among others, price. If Comcast does not license its affiliated content to us on fair and nondiscriminatory terms and conditions, we can seek arbitration and continue to carry such content while the arbitration is pending. However, it is uncertain how these conditions may be interpreted and enforced by the FCC; therefore, we cannot predict the practical effect of these conditions. We depend on the Cable Act for access to programming from cable-affiliate programmers at cost-effective rates. We purchase a large percentage of our programming from cable-affiliated programmers. The provisions of the Cable Act prohibiting exclusive contracting practices with cable-affiliated programmers were extended for another five-year period in September 2007. Cable companies appealed the FCC’s decision, and while that decision was upheld by the D.C. Circuit in March 2010, that court indicated if the market continues to evolve, it is expected that the exclusivity prohibition may no longer be necessary. Any change in the Cable Act and the FCC’s rules that permit the cable industry or cable-affiliated programmers to discriminate against competing businesses, such as ours, in the sale of programming could adversely affect our ability to acquire cable-affiliated programming at all or to acquire programming on a cost-effective basis. As a result, we may be limited in our ability to obtain access on nondiscriminatory terms to programming from programmers that are affiliated with cable system operators. In the case of certain types of programming affiliated with Comcast, Time-Warner Cable, and Liberty, the terms of access to the programming are subject to arbitration if we and the programmer cannot reach agreement on terms, subject to FCC review. We cannot be sure that this procedure will result in favorable terms for us or that the FCC conditions that establish this procedure will be allowed to expire on their own terms. In addition, affiliates of certain cable providers have denied us access to sports programming they feed to their cable systems terrestrially, rather than by satellite. The FCC recently held that new denials of such service are unfair if they have the purpose or effect of significantly hindering us from providing programming to consumers. However, we cannot be sure that we can prevail in a complaint related to such programming, and gain access to it. Our continuing failure to access such programming could materially and adversely affect our ability to compete in regions serviced by these cable providers. We face increasing competition from other distributors of foreign language programming that may limit our ability to maintain our foreign language programming subscriber base. We face increasing competition from other distributors of foreign language programming, including programming distributed over the Internet. There can be no assurance that we will maintain subscribers in our foreign language programming services. In addition, the increasing availability of foreign language programming from our competitors, which in certain cases has resulted from our inability to renew programming agreements on an exclusive basis or at all, could contribute to an increase in our subscriber churn. Our agreements with distributors of foreign language programming have varying expiration dates, and some agreements are on a month-to-month basis. There can be no assurance that we will be able to grow or maintain our foreign language programming subscriber base. 24 Table of Contents Our local programming strategy faces uncertainty because we may not be able to obtain necessary retransmission consents at acceptable rates from local network stations. The Copyright Act generally gives satellite companies a statutory copyright license to retransmit local broadcast channels by satellite back into the market from which they originated, subject to obtaining the retransmission consent of local network station that do not elect “must carry” status, as required by the Communications Act. If we fail to reach retransmission consent agreements with such broadcasters, we cannot carry their signals. This could have an adverse effect on our strategy to compete with cable and other satellite companies that provide local signals. While we have been able to reach retransmission consent agreements with most of these local network stations, there remain stations with which we have not been able to reach an agreement. We cannot be sure that we will secure these agreements or that we will secure new agreements on acceptable terms (or at all) upon the expiration of our current retransmission consent agreements, some of which are short-term. In recent years, national broadcasters have used their ownership of certain local broadcast stations to require us to carry additional cable programming in exchange for retransmission consent of their local broadcast stations. These requirements may place constraints on available capacity on our satellites for other programming. Furthermore, the rates we are charged for retransmitting local channels have been increasing. We may be unable to pass these increased programming costs on to our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The injunction against our retransmission of distant networks, currently waived, may be reinstated. Pursuant to STELA, we have been able to obtain a waiver of a court injunction that previously prevented us from retransmitting certain distant network signals under a statutory copyright license. Because of that waiver, we may once again provide distant network signals to eligible subscribers. To qualify for that waiver, we are required to provide local service in all 210 local markets in the U.S. on an ongoing basis. This condition poses a significant strain on our capacity. Moreover, we may lose that waiver if we are found to have failed to provide local service in any of the 210 local markets. If we lose the waiver, the injunction could be reinstated. Furthermore, depending on the severity of the failure, we may also be subject to other sanctions, which may include, among other things, damages. Our compliance with certain conditions for the waiver is subject to examination and review. We are subject to significant regulatory oversight and changes in applicable regulatory requirements, including any adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to the Internet, which could adversely affect our business. DBS operators are subject to significant government regulation, primarily by the FCC and, to a certain extent, by Congress, other federal agencies and foreign, state and local authorities. Depending upon the circumstances, noncompliance with legislation or regulations promulgated by these entities could result in the suspension or revocation of our licenses or registrations, the termination or loss of contracts or the imposition of contractual damages, civil fines or criminal penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, the adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to the Internet or other areas of our business could limit or otherwise adversely affect the manner in which we currently conduct our business. If we become subject to new regulations or legislation or new interpretations of existing regulations or legislation that govern Internet network neutrality, we may be required to incur additional expenses or alter our business model. The manner in which legislation governing Internet network neutrality may be interpreted and enforced cannot be precisely determined, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. You should review the regulatory disclosures under the caption “Item 1. Business — Government Regulation — FCC Regulation under the Communication Act” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have made a substantial investment in certain 700 MHz wireless licenses and will be required to make significant additional investments or partner with others to commercialize these licenses. In 2008, we paid $712 million to acquire certain 700 MHz wireless licenses, which were granted to us by the FCC in February 2009. To commercialize these licenses and satisfy FCC build-out requirements, we will be required to make significant additional investments or partner with others. Depending on the nature and scope of such 25 Table of Contents commercialization and build-out, any such investment or partnership could vary significantly. Part or all of our licenses may be terminated for failure to satisfy FCC build-out requirements. We are currently performing a market test to evaluate different technologies and consumer acceptance. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop and implement a business model that will realize a return on these investments and profitably deploy the spectrum represented by the 700 MHz licenses. Furthermore, the fair values of wireless licenses may vary significantly in the future. In particular, valuation swings could occur if: · consolidation in the wireless industry allows or requires wireless carriers to sell significant portions of their wireless spectrum holdings, which could in turn reduce the value of our spectrum holdings; or · a sudden large sale of spectrum by one or more wireless providers occurs. In addition, the fair value of wireless licenses could decline as a result of the FCC’s pursuit of policies, including auctions, designed to increase the number of wireless licenses available in each of our markets. If the fair value of our 700 MHz licenses were to decline significantly, the value of our 700 MHz licenses could be subject to non-cash impairment charges. We assess potential impairments to our indefinite-lived intangible assets, including our 700 MHz licenses annually to determine whether there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment condition may exist. We have substantial debt outstanding and may incur additional debt. As of December 31, 2010, our total debt, including the debt of our subsidiaries, was $6.515 billion. Our debt levels could have significant consequences, including: · requiring us to devote a substantial portion of our cash to make interest and principal payments on our debt, thereby reducing the amount of cash available for other purposes. As a result, we would have limited financial and operating flexibility in responding to changing economic and competitive conditions; · limiting our ability to raise additional debt because it may be more difficult for us to obtain debt financing on attractive terms; and · placing us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. In addition, we may incur substantial additional debt in the future. The terms of the indentures relating to our senior notes permit us to incur additional debt. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the risks we now face could intensify. We have limited owned and leased satellite capacity and failures or reduced capacity could adversely affect our business. Operation of our programming service requires that we have adequate satellite transmission capacity for the programming we offer. Moreover, current competitive conditions require that we continue to expand our offering of new programming, particularly by expanding local HD coverage and offering more HD national channels. While we generally have had in-orbit satellite capacity sufficient to transmit our existing channels and some backup capacity to recover the transmission of certain critical programming, our backup capacity is limited. Our ability to earn revenue depends on the usefulness of our satellites, each of which has a limited useful life. A number of factors affect the useful lives of the satellites, including, among other things, the quality of their construction, the durability of their component parts, the ability to continue to maintain proper orbit and control over the satellite’s functions, the efficiency of the launch vehicle used, and the remaining on-board fuel following orbit insertion. Generally, the minimum design life of each of our satellites ranges from 12 to 15 years. We can provide no assurance, however, as to the actual useful lives of the satellites. Our operating results could be adversely affected if the useful life of any of our satellites were significantly shorter than 12 years from the launch date. 26 Table of Contents In the event of a failure or loss of any of our satellites, we may need to acquire or lease additional satellite capacity or relocate one of our other satellites and use it as a replacement for the failed or lost satellite, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Such a failure could result in a prolonged loss of critical programming or a significant delay in our plans to expand programming as necessary to remain competitive. A relocation would require FCC approval and, among other things, a showing to the FCC that the replacement satellite would not cause additional interference compared to the failed or lost satellite. We cannot be certain that we could obtain such FCC approval. If we choose to use a satellite in this manner, this use could adversely affect our ability to meet the operation deadlines associated with our authorizations. Failure to meet those deadlines could result in the loss of such authorizations, which would have an adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues. Our owned and leased satellites are subject to construction, launch, operational and environmental risks that could limit our ability to utilize these satellites. Construction and launch risks. A key component of our business strategy is our ability to expand our offering of new programming and services, including increased local and HD programming. To accomplish this goal, we need to construct and launch satellites. Satellite construction and launch is subject to significant risks, including construction and launch delays, launch failure and incorrect orbital placement. Certain launch vehicles that may be used by us have either unproven track records or have experienced launch failures in the recent past. The risks of launch delay and failure are usually greater when the launch vehicle does not have a track record of previous successful flights. Launch failures result in significant delays in the deployment of satellites because of the need both to construct replacement satellites, which can take more than three years, and to obtain other launch opportunities. Significant construction or launch delays could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. If we were unable to obtain launch insurance, or obtain launch insurance at rates we deem commercially reasonable, and a significant launch failure were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues and fund future satellite procurement and launch opportunities. In addition, the occurrence of future launch failures may delay the deployment of our satellites and materially and adversely affect our ability to insure the launch of our satellites at commercially reasonable premiums, if at all. Please see further discussion under the caption “We generally do not have commercial insurance coverage on the satellites we use and could face significant impairment charges if one of our satellites fails” below. Operational risks. Satellites are subject to significant operational risks while in orbit. These risks include malfunctions, commonly referred to as anomalies, that have occurred in our satellites and the satellites of other operators as a result of various factors, such as satellite manufacturers’ errors, problems with the power systems or control systems of the satellites and general failures resulting from operating satellites in the harsh environment of space. Although we work closely with the satellite manufacturers to determine and eliminate the cause of anomalies in new satellites and provide for redundancies of many critical components in the satellites, we may experience anomalies in the future, whether of the types described above or arising from the failure of other systems or components. Any single anomaly or series of anomalies could materially and adversely affect our operations and revenues and our relationship with current customers, as well as our ability to attract new customers for our multi-channel video services. In particular, future anomalies may result in the loss of individual transponders on a satellite, a group of transponders on that satellite or the entire satellite, depending on the nature of the anomaly. Anomalies may also reduce the expected useful life of a satellite, thereby reducing the channels that could be offered using that satellite, or create additional expenses due to the need to provide replacement or back-up satellites. You should review the disclosures relating to satellite anomalies set forth under Note 7 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Environmental risks. Meteoroid events pose a potential threat to all in-orbit satellites. The probability that meteoroids will damage those satellites increases significantly when the Earth passes through the particulate stream left behind by comets. Occasionally, increased solar activity also poses a potential threat to all in-orbit satellites. 27 Table of Contents Some decommissioned spacecraft are in uncontrolled orbits which pass through the geostationary belt at various points, and present hazards to operational spacecraft, including our satellites. We may be required to perform maneuvers to avoid collisions and these maneuvers may prove unsuccessful or could reduce the useful life of the satellite through the expenditure of fuel to perform these maneuvers. The loss, damage or destruction of any of our satellites as a result of an electrostatic storm, collision with space debris, malfunction or other event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We generally do not have commercial insurance coverage on the satellites we use and could face significant impairment charges if one of our satellites fails. Generally, we do not carry launch or in-orbit insurance on the satellites we use. We currently do not carry in-orbit insurance on any of our satellites and generally do not use commercial insurance to mitigate the potential financial impact of launch or in-orbit failures because we believe that the cost of insurance premiums is uneconomical relative to the risk of such failures. If one or more of our in-orbit satellites fail, we could be required to record significant impairment charges. We may have potential conflicts of interest with EchoStar due to our common ownership and management. Questions relating to conflicts of interest may arise between EchoStar and us in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships. Areas in which conflicts of interest between EchoStar and us could arise include, but are not limited to, the following: · Cross officerships, directorships and stock ownership. We have significant overlap in directors and executive officers with EchoStar, which may lead to conflicting interests. Two of our officers provide management services to EchoStar pursuant to a management services agreement between EchoStar and us and two executive officers are employees of both us and EchoStar. These individuals may have actual or apparent conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving or affecting each company. Furthermore, our Board of Directors and executive officers include persons who are members of the Board of Directors of EchoStar, including Charles W. Ergen, who serves as the Chairman of EchoStar and us. The executive officers and the members of our Board of Directors who overlap with EchoStar have fiduciary duties to EchoStar’s shareholders. For example, there is the potential for a conflict of interest when we or EchoStar look at acquisitions and other corporate opportunities that may be suitable for both companies. In addition, certain of our directors and officers own EchoStar stock and options to purchase EchoStar stock, which they acquired or were granted prior to the Spin-off of EchoStar from us, including Mr. Ergen, who owns approximately 43.8% of the total equity (assuming conversion of only the Class B Common Stock held by Mr. Ergen into Class A Common Stock) and controls approximately 56.0% of the voting power of EchoStar. Mr. Ergen’s beneficial ownership of EchoStar excludes 18,900,405 shares of its Class A Common Stock issuable upon conversion of shares of its Class B Common Stock currently held by certain trusts established by Mr. Ergen for the benefit of his family. These trusts beneficially own approximately 33.5% of EchoStar’s total equity securities (assuming conversion of only the Class B Common Stock held by such trusts into Class A Common Stock) and possess approximately 36.7% of EchoStar’s total voting power. These ownership interests could create actual, apparent or potential conflicts of interest when these individuals are faced with decisions that could have different implications for us and EchoStar. · Intercompany agreements related to the Spin-off. We have entered into certain agreements with EchoStar pursuant to which we provide EchoStar with certain management, administrative, accounting, tax, legal and other services, for which EchoStar pays us our cost plus a fixed margin. In addition, we have entered into a number of intercompany agreements covering matters such as tax sharing and EchoStar’s responsibility for certain liabilities previously undertaken by us for certain of EchoStar’s businesses. We have also entered into certain commercial agreements with EchoStar pursuant to which EchoStar, among other things, sells set-top boxes and related equipment to us at specified prices. The terms of certain of these agreements were established while EchoStar was a wholly-owned subsidiary of us and were not the result of arm’s length negotiations. The allocation of assets, liabilities, rights, indemnifications and other obligations between EchoStar and us under the separation and other intercompany agreements we entered into with EchoStar in connection with the Spin-off of EchoStar may have been different if agreed to by two unaffiliated parties. Had these agreements been negotiated with unaffiliated third parties, their terms may have been more favorable, or less favorable, to us. In addition, conflicts could arise between us and EchoStar in the interpretation or any extension or renegotiation of these existing agreements. 28 Table of Contents · Additional intercompany transactions. EchoStar or its affiliates have and will continue to enter into transactions with us or our subsidiaries or other affiliates. Although the terms of any such transactions will be established based upon negotiations between EchoStar and us and, when appropriate, subject to the approval of a committee of the non-interlocking directors or in certain instances non-interlocking management, there can be no assurance that the terms of any such transactions will be as favorable to us or our subsidiaries or affiliates as may otherwise be obtained between unaffiliated parties. · Business opportunities. We have retained interests in various companies that have subsidiaries or controlled affiliates that own or operate domestic or foreign services that may compete with services offered by EchoStar. We may also compete with EchoStar when we participate in auctions for spectrum or orbital slots for our satellites. In addition, EchoStar may in the future use its satellites, uplink and transmission assets to compete directly against us in the subscription television business. We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts, and, even if we do so, the resolution may be less favorable to us than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated party. We also do not have any agreements with EchoStar that would prevent either company from competing with the other. We rely on key personnel and the loss of their services may negatively affect our businesses. We believe that our future success will depend to a significant extent upon the performance of Charles W. Ergen, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer and certain other executives. The loss of Mr. Ergen or of certain other key executives could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although all of our executives have executed agreements limiting their ability to work for or consult with competitors if they leave us, we do not have employment agreements with any of them. Pursuant to a management services agreement with EchoStar entered into at the time of the Spin-off, two of our officers provide services to EchoStar. In addition, Roger J. Lynch also serves as Executive Vice President, Advanced Technologies of EchoStar. To the extent Mr. Lynch and such other officers are performing services for EchoStar, this may divert their time and attention away from our business and may therefore adversely affect our business. We are party to various lawsuits which, if adversely decided, could have a significant adverse impact on our business, particularly lawsuits regarding intellectual property. We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims which arise in the ordinary course of business, including among other things, disputes with programmers regarding fees. Many entities, including some of our competitors, have or may in the future obtain patents and other intellectual property rights that cover or affect products or services related to those that we offer. In general, if a court determines that one or more of our products or services infringes on intellectual property held by others, we may be required to cease developing or marketing those products or services, to obtain licenses from the holders of the intellectual property at a material cost, or to redesign those products or services in such a way as to avoid infringing the intellectual property. If those intellectual property rights are held by a competitor, we may be unable to obtain the intellectual property at any price, which could adversely affect our competitive position. Please see further discussion under Item 1. Business — Patents and Trademarks of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may not be aware of all intellectual property rights that our services or the products used in connection with our services may potentially infringe. In addition, patent applications in the United States are confidential until the Patent and Trademark Office issues a patent. Therefore, it is difficult to evaluate the extent to which our services or the products used in connection with our services may infringe claims contained in pending patent applications. Further, it is often not possible to determine definitively whether a claim of infringement is valid. We may pursue acquisitions and other strategic transactions to complement or expand our business that may not be successful and we may lose up to the entire value of our investment in these acquisitions and transactions. Our future success may depend on opportunities to buy other businesses or technologies that could complement, enhance or expand our current business or products or that might otherwise offer us growth opportunities. We may 29 Table of Contents not be able to complete such transactions and such transactions, if executed, pose significant risks and could have a negative effect on our operations. Any transactions that we are able to identify and complete may involve a number of risks, including: · the diversion of our management’s attention from our existing business to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired or combined business or joint venture; · possible adverse effects on our operating results during the integration process; · a high degree of risk involved in these transactions, which could become substantial over time, and higher exposure to significant financial losses if the underlying ventures are not successful; and · our possible inability to achieve the intended objectives of the transaction. In addition, we may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage our newly acquired operations or employees. We may not be able to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, and this may lead to operational inefficiencies. New acquisitions, joint ventures and other transactions may require the commitment of significant capital that would otherwise be directed to investments in our existing businesses or be distributed to shareholders. Commitment of this capital may cause us to defer or suspend any share repurchases that we otherwise may have made. Our business depends on FCC licenses that can expire or be revoked or modified and applications for FCC licenses that may not be granted. If the FCC were to cancel, revoke, suspend, restrict, significantly condition, or fail to renew any of our licenses or authorizations, or fail to grant our applications for FCC licenses, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Specifically, loss of a frequency authorization would reduce the amount of spectrum available to us, potentially reducing the amount of services available to our subscribers. The materiality of such a loss of authorizations would vary based upon, among other things, the location of the frequency used or the availability of replacement spectrum. In addition, Congress often considers and enacts legislation that affects us and FCC proceedings to implement the Communications Act and enforce its regulations are ongoing. We cannot predict the outcomes of these legislative or regulatory proceedings or their effect on our business. We are subject to digital HD “carry-one, carry-all” requirements that cause capacity constraints. To provide any full-power local broadcast signal in any market, we are required to retransmit all qualifying broadcast signals in that market (“carry-one, carry-all”). The FCC has adopted digital carriage rules that require DBS providers to phase in carry-one, carry-all obligations with respect to the carriage of full-power broadcasters’ HD signals by February 2013 in markets in which DISH Network elects to provide local channels in HD. In addition, STELA has imposed accelerated HD carriage requirements for noncommercial educational stations on DBS providers that do not have a certain contractual relationship with a certain number of such stations. DISH Network has entered into an agreement with a number of PBS stations to comply with the requirements. DISH Network has also challenged the constitutionality of this provision but has not prevailed in its effort to obtain temporary injunctive relief. The carriage of additional HD signals on our DBS system could cause us to experience significant capacity constraints and prevent us from carrying additional popular national programs and/or carrying those national programs in HD. In addition, there is a pending rulemaking before the FCC regarding whether to require DBS providers to carry all broadcast stations in a local market in both standard definition and HD if they carry any station in that market in both standard definition and HD. If we were required to carry multiple versions of each broadcast station, we would have to dedicate more of our finite satellite capacity to each broadcast station. We cannot predict the outcome or timing of that rulemaking process. 30 Table of Contents It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so may be beneficial to our shareholders, because of our ownership structure. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company that a shareholder may consider favorable. These provisions include the following: · a capital structure with multiple classes of common stock: a Class A that entitles the holders to one vote per share, a Class B that entitles the holders to ten votes per share, a Class C that entitles the holders to one vote per share, except upon a change in control of our company in which case the holders of Class C are entitled to ten votes per share; · a provision that authorizes the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock, which could be issued by our Board of Directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; · a provision limiting who may call special meetings of shareholders; and · a provision establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by shareholders at shareholder meetings. In addition, pursuant to our certificate of incorporation we have a significant amount of authorized and unissued stock which would allow our Board of Directors to issue shares to persons friendly to current management, thereby protecting the continuity of its management, or which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of persons seeking to obtain control of us. We are controlled by one principal stockholder who is also our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. Charles W. Ergen, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, currently beneficially owns approximately 53.6% of our total equity securities (assuming conversion of only the Class B Common Stock held by Mr. Ergen into Class A Common Stock) and possesses approximately 90.5% of the total voting power. Mr. Ergen’s beneficial ownership of shares of Class A Common Stock excludes 4,245,151 shares of Class A Common Stock issuable upon conversion of shares of Class B Common Stock currently held by certain trusts established by Mr. Ergen for the benefit of his family. These trusts beneficially own approximately 2.0% of our total equity securities (assuming conversion of only the Class B Common Stock held by such trusts into Class A Common Stock) and possess approximately 1.6% of the total voting power. Through his voting power, Mr. Ergen has the ability to elect a majority of our directors and to control all other matters requiring the approval of our stockholders. As a result, DISH Network is a “controlled company” as defined in the Nasdaq listing rules and is, therefore, not subject to Nasdaq requirements that would otherwise require us to have (i) a majority of independent directors; (ii) a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors; (iii) compensation of our executive officers determined by a majority of the independent directors or a compensation committee composed solely of independent directors; and (iv) director nominees selected, or recommended for the Board’s selection, either by a majority of the independent directors or a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors. There can be no assurance that there will not be deficiencies leading to material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. We periodically evaluate and test our internal control over financial reporting to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2010. If in the future we are unable to report that our internal control over financial reporting is effective (or if our auditors do not agree with our assessment of the effectiveness of, or are unable to express an opinion on, our internal control over financial reporting), investors, customers and business partners could lose confidence in the accuracy of our financial reports, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, investor confidence in our financial results may weaken, and our stock price may suffer. We may face other risks described from time to time in periodic and current reports we file with the SEC. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 31 Table of Contents 