ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our securities is speculative in nature, involves a high degree of risk, and should not be made by an investor who cannot bear the economic risk of its investment for an indefinite period of time and who cannot afford the loss of its entire investment. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and the other information contained elsewhere in this Annual Report before making an investment in our securities. Risks Related to Our Business We currently have no product revenues and will need to raise additional funds in the future. If we are unable to obtain the funds necessary to continue our operations, we will be required to delay, scale back or eliminate one or both of our remaining drug development programs and may not continue as a going concern. We have generated no product revenues to date and will not until, and if, we receive approval from the FDA and other regulatory authorities for our two product candidates. We have already spent substantial funds developing our potential products and business, however, and we expect to continue to have negative cash flow from our operations for at least the next several years. As of December 31, 2008, we had $106,023 of cash and cash equivalents. We received additional funding of approximately $0.5 million from a joint venture agreement in February 2009 and $0.4 million from the sale of Secured 12% Notes in February 2009. We will still have to raise substantial additional funds to complete the development of our product candidates and to bring them to market. Beyond the capital requirements mentioned above, our future capital requirements will depend on numerous factors, including: · the results of any clinical trials; · the scope and results of our research and development programs; · the time required to obtain regulatory approvals; · our ability to establish and maintain marketing alliances and collaborative agreements; and · the cost of our internal marketing activities. Swiss Pharma has received an arbitration award against us, in the Swiss Chamber of Commerce, and has initiated proceedings in New York State courts to confirm the arbitration award and enter a judgment on Swiss Pharma's behalf against us. We do not have sufficient cash or other current available assets to satisfy the arbitrators award. If Swiss Pharma is successful in entering a judgment against us, it could take actions against us that would significantly impair our ability to continue as a going concern. See "Item 3 - Legal Proceedings." It is difficult for companies like ours to raise funds in the current economic conditions and additional financing may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are not available, we will be required to delay, scale back or eliminate one or more of our drug development programs or obtain funds through arrangements with collaborative partners or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies or products that we would not otherwise relinquish. Our auditors have concluded that our net losses, negative cash flow, accumulated deficit and negative working capital as of December 31, 2008, raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. 18 We are not currently profitable and may never become profitable. We have a history of losses and expect to incur substantial losses and negative operating cash flow for the foreseeable future, and we may never achieve or maintain profitability. We have incurred losses in every period since our inception on August 6, 2001. For the year ended December 31, 2008 and for the period from August 6, 2001 (inception) through December 31, 2008, we incurred net losses applicable to common shares of $4,268,858, and $59,267,928 respectively. Even if we succeed in developing and commercializing one or more of our product candidates, we expect to incur substantial losses for the foreseeable future and may never become profitable. We also expect to continue to incur significant operating and capital expenditures and anticipate that our expenses will increase substantially in the foreseeable future as we: · continue to undertake nonclinical development and clinical trials for our product candidates; · seek regulatory approvals for our product candidates; · implement additional internal systems and infrastructure; · lease additional or alternative office facilities; and · hire additional personnel. We also expect to experience negative cash flow for the foreseeable future as we fund our operating losses and capital expenditures. As a result, we will need to generate significant revenues in order to achieve and maintain profitability. We may not be able to generate these revenues or achieve profitability in the future. . Our auditors have concluded that our net losses, negative cash flow, accumulated deficit and negative working capital as of December 31, 2008, raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our failure to achieve or maintain profitability could negatively impact the value of our common stock. We have a limited operating history upon which to base an investment decision. We are a development-stage company and have not yet demonstrated any ability to perform the functions necessary for the successful commercialization of any product candidates. The successful commercialization of our product candidates will require us to perform a variety of functions, including: · continuing to undertake nonclinical development and clinical trials; · participating in regulatory approval processes; · formulating and manufacturing products; and · conducting sales and marketing activities. Since inception as Manhattan Research Development, Inc., our operations have been limited to organizing and staffing, and acquiring, developing and securing our proprietary technology and undertaking nonclinical and clinical trials of principal product candidates. These operations provide a limited basis for you to assess our ability to commercialize our product candidates and the advisability of investing in our securities. 19 We depend greatly on the intellectual capabilities and experience of our key executives, and the loss of any of them could affect our ability to develop our remaining products. We had only three full-time and one part-time employee as of March 30, 2009. The loss of Douglas Abel, our President and Chief Executive Officer, or Michael G. McGuinness, our Chief Operating and Financial Officer, could harm us. The current terms of our employment agreements with Messrs. Abel and McGuinness expire in April 2009 and July 2009, respectively. We cannot predict our success in hiring or retaining the personnel we require for continued operations. We may not obtain the necessary U.S. or worldwide regulatory approvals to commercialize our product candidates. We will need FDA approval to commercialize our product candidates in the U.S. and approvals from the FDA equivalent regulatory authorities in foreign jurisdictions to commercialize our product candidates in those jurisdictions. In order to obtain FDA approval of any of our product candidates, we must first submit to the FDA an IND, which will set forth our plans for clinical testing of our product candidates. In September 2007, the FDA accepted our IND for Topical PTH(1-34). Our remaining two products, Hedrin and the Topical GEL for psoriasis are currently considered pre-clinical. We are unable to estimate the size and timing of the clinical and non clinical trials required to bring our two product candidates to market and, accordingly, cannot estimate the time when development of these product candidates will be completed. When the clinical testing for our product candidates is complete, we will submit to the FDA a NDA demonstrating that the product candidate is safe for humans and effective for its intended use. This demonstration requires significant research and animal tests, which are referred to as nonclinical studies, as well as human tests, which are referred to as clinical trials. Satisfaction of the FDA’s regulatory requirements typically takes many years, depends upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidate and requires substantial resources for research, development and testing. We cannot predict whether our research and clinical approaches will result in drugs that the FDA considers safe for humans and effective for indicated uses. The FDA has substantial discretion in the drug approval process and may require us to conduct additional nonclinical and clinical testing or to perform post-marketing studies. The approval process may also be delayed by changes in government regulation, future legislation or administrative action or changes in FDA policy that occur prior to or during our regulatory review. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals may: · delay commercialization of, and our ability to derive product revenues from, our product candidates; · impose costly procedures on us; and · diminish any competitive advantages that we may otherwise enjoy. Even if we comply with all FDA requests, the FDA may ultimately reject any or all of our future NDAs. We cannot be sure that we will ever obtain regulatory clearance for any of our product candidates. Failure to obtain FDA approval of any of our product candidates will severely undermine our business by reducing our number of salable products and, therefore, corresponding product revenues. In foreign jurisdictions, we must receive approval from the appropriate regulatory authorities before we can commercialize our drugs. Foreign regulatory approval processes generally include all of the risks associated with the FDA approval procedures described above. We have not yet made any determination as to which foreign jurisdictions we may seek approval and have not undertaken any steps to obtain approvals in any foreign jurisdiction. 20 Clinical trials are very expensive, time consuming and difficult to design and implement. Human clinical trials are very expensive and difficult to design and implement, in part because they are subject to rigorous regulatory requirements. The clinical trial process is also time consuming. We estimate that clinical trials of our product candidates will take at least several years to complete. Furthermore, failure can occur at any stage of the trials, and we could encounter problems that cause us to abandon or repeat clinical trials. The commencement and completion of clinical trials may be delayed by several factors, including: · unforeseen safety issues; · determination of dosing issues; · lack of effectiveness during clinical trials; · slower than expected rates of patient recruitment; · inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment; and · inability or unwillingness of medical investigators to follow our clinical protocols. In addition, we or the FDA may suspend our clinical trials at any time if it appears that we are exposing participants to unacceptable health risks or if the FDA finds deficiencies in our IND submissions or the conduct of these trials. The results of our clinical trials may not support our product candidate claims. Even if our clinical trials are completed as planned, we cannot be certain that their results will support our product candidate claims. Success in nonclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and we cannot be sure that the results of later clinical trials will replicate the results of prior clinical trials and nonclinical testing. The clinical trial process may fail to demonstrate that our product candidates are safe for humans or effective for indicated uses. This failure would cause us to abandon a product candidate and may delay development of other product candidates. Any delay in, or termination of, our clinical trials will delay the filing of our NDAs with the FDA and, ultimately, our ability to commercialize our product candidates and generate product revenues. In addition, we anticipate that our clinical trials will involve only a small patient population. Accordingly, the results of such trials may not be indicative of future results over a larger patient population. Physicians and patients may not accept and use our drugs. Even if the FDA approves our product candidates, physicians and patients may not accept and use them. Acceptance and use of our product will depend upon a number of factors including: · perceptions by members of the health care community, including physicians, about the safety and effectiveness of our drugs; · cost-effectiveness of our product relative to competing products; 21 · availability of reimbursement for our products from government or other healthcare payers; and · effectiveness of marketing and distribution efforts by us and our licensees and distributors, if any. Because we expect sales of our current product candidates, if approved, to generate substantially all of our product revenues for the foreseeable future, the failure of any of these drugs to find market acceptance would harm our business and could require us to seek additional financing. Our drug-development program depends upon third-party researchers who are outside our control. We currently are collaborating with several third-party researchers, for the development of our product candidates. Accordingly, the successful development of our product candidates will depend on the performance of these third parties. These collaborators will not be our employees, however, and we cannot control the amount or timing of resources that they will devote to our programs. Our collaborators may not assign as great a priority to our programs or pursue them as diligently as we would if we were undertaking such programs ourselves. If outside collaborators fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our drug-development programs, or if their performance is substandard, the approval of our FDA applications, if any, and our introduction of new drugs, if any, will be delayed. These collaborators may also have relationships with other commercial entities, some of whom may compete with us. If our collaborators assist our competitors at our expense, our competitive position would be harmed. We rely exclusively on third parties to formulate and manufacture our product candidates. We have no experience in drug formulation or manufacturing and do not intend to establish our own manufacturing facilities. We lack the resources and expertise to formulate or manufacture our own product candidates. We intend to contract with one or more manufacturers to manufacture, supply, store and distribute drug supplies for our clinical trials. If any of our product candidates receive FDA approval, we will rely on one or more third-party contractors to manufacture our drugs. Our anticipated future reliance on a limited number of third-party manufacturers, exposes us to the following risks: · We may be unable to identify manufacturers on acceptable terms or at all because the number of potential manufacturers is limited and the FDA must approve any replacement contractor. This approval would require new testing and compliance inspections. In addition, a new manufacturer would have to be educated in, or develop substantially equivalent processes for, production of our products after receipt of FDA approval, if any. · Our third-party manufacturers might be unable to formulate and manufacture our drugs in the volume and of the quality required to meet our clinical needs and commercial needs, if any. · Our future contract manufacturers may not perform as agreed or may not remain in the contract manufacturing business for the time required to supply our clinical trials or to successfully produce, store and distribute our products. · Drug manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA, the Drug Enforcement Agency, and corresponding state agencies to ensure strict compliance with good manufacturing practice and other government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. We do not have control over third-party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. 22 · If any third-party manufacturer makes improvements in the manufacturing process for our products, we may not own, or may have to share, the intellectual property rights to the innovation. We have no experience selling, marketing or distributing products and no internal capability to do so. We currently have no sales, marketing or distribution capabilities. We do not anticipate having the resources in the foreseeable future to allocate to the sales and marketing of our proposed products. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to enter into and maintain such collaborative relationships, the collaborator’s strategic interest in the products under development and such collaborator’s ability to successfully market and sell any such products. We intend to pursue collaborative arrangements regarding the sales and marketing of our products, however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to establish or maintain such collaborative arrangements, or if able to do so, that they will have effective sales forces. To the extent that we decide not to, or are unable to, enter into collaborative arrangements with respect to the sales and marketing of our proposed products, significant capital expenditures, management resources and time will be required to establish and develop an in-house marketing and sales force with technical expertise. There can also be no assurance that we will be able to establish or maintain relationships with third party collaborators or develop in-house sales and distribution capabilities. To the extent that we depend on third parties for marketing and distribution, any revenues we receive will depend upon the efforts of such third parties, and there can be no assurance that such efforts will be successful. In addition, there can also be no assurance that we will be able to market and sell our product in the United States or overseas. If we cannot compete successfully for market share against other drug companies, we may not achieve sufficient product revenues and our business will suffer. The market for our product candidates is characterized by intense competition and rapid technological advances. If our product candidates receive FDA approval, they will compete with a number of existing and future drugs and therapies developed, manufactured and marketed by others. Existing or future competing products may provide greater therapeutic convenience or clinical or other benefits for a specific indication than our products, or may offer comparable performance at a lower cost. If our products fail to capture and maintain market share, we may not achieve sufficient product revenues and our business will suffer. We will compete against fully integrated pharmaceutical companies and smaller companies that are collaborating with larger pharmaceutical companies, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations. Many of these competitors have product candidates that will compete with ours already approved or in development. In addition, many of these competitors, either alone or together with their collaborative partners, operate larger research and development programs and have substantially greater financial resources than we do, as well as significantly greater experience in: · developing drugs; · undertaking nonclinical testing and human clinical trials; · obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of drugs; · formulating and manufacturing drugs; and · launching, marketing and selling drugs. 23 Developments by competitors may render our products or technologies obsolete or non-competitive. Many of the organizations competing with us have substantially greater capital resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities, longer drug development history in obtaining regulatory approvals and greater manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do. These organizations also compete with us to attract qualified personnel, parties for acquisitions, joint ventures or other collaborations. If we fail to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights or secure rights to patents of others, the value of our intellectual property rights would diminish. Our success, competitive position and future revenues will depend in part on our ability and the abilities of our licensors to obtain and maintain patent protection for our products, methods, processes and other technologies, to preserve our trade secrets, to prevent third parties from infringing on our proprietary rights and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. We currently do not directly own the rights to any issued patents. See “Business – Intellectual Property and License Agreements.”. However, with regard to the patents covered by our license agreements and any future patents issued to which we will have rights, we cannot predict: · the degree and range of protection any patents will afford us against competitors including whether third parties will find ways to invalidate or otherwise circumvent our patents; · if and when patents will issue; · whether or not others will obtain patents claiming aspects similar to those covered by our patents and patent applications; or · whether we will need to initiate litigation or administrative proceedings which may be costly whether we win or lose. Our success also depends upon the skills, knowledge and experience of our scientific and technical personnel, our consultants and advisors as well as our licensors and contractors. To help protect our proprietary know-how and our inventions for which patents may be unobtainable or difficult to obtain, we rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements. To this end, we require all of our employees, consultants, advisors and contractors to enter into agreements which prohibit the disclosure of confidential information and, where applicable, require disclosure and assignment to us of the ideas, developments, discoveries and inventions important to our business. These agreements may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure or the lawful development by others of such information. If any of our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information is disclosed, the value of our trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary rights would be significantly impaired and our business and competitive position would suffer. If we infringe the rights of third parties we could be prevented from selling products, forced to pay damages, and defend against litigation. Our business is substantially dependent on the intellectual property on which our product candidates are based. To date, we have not received any threats or claims that we may be infringing on another’s patents or other intellectual property rights. If our products, methods, processes and other technologies infringe the proprietary rights of other parties, we could incur substantial costs and we may have to: 24 · obtain licenses, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; · redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement; · stop using the subject matter claimed in the patents held by others; · pay damages; or · defend litigation or administrative proceedings which may be costly whether we win or lose, and which could result in a substantial diversion of our valuable management resources. Our ability to generate product revenues will be diminished if our drugs sell for inadequate prices or patients are unable to obtain adequate levels of reimbursement. Our ability to commercialize our drugs, alone or with collaborators, will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement will be available from: · government and health administration authorities; · private health maintenance organizations and health insurers; and · other healthcare payers. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products. Healthcare payers, including Medicare, are challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Government and other healthcare payers increasingly attempt to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for drugs. Even if our product candidates are approved by the FDA, insurance coverage may not be available, and reimbursement levels may be inadequate, to cover our drugs. If government and other healthcare payers do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for any of our products, once approved, market acceptance of our products could be reduced. We may not successfully manage our growth. Our success will depend upon the expansion of our operations and the effective management of our growth, which will place a significant strain on our management and on our administrative, operational and financial resources. To manage this growth, we must expand our facilities, augment our operational, financial and management systems and hire and train additional qualified personnel. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business may suffer. If we are unable to hire additional qualified personnel, our ability to grow our business may be harmed. We will need to hire additional qualified personnel with expertise in nonclinical testing, clinical research and testing, government regulation, formulation and manufacturing and sales and marketing. We compete for qualified individuals with numerous biopharmaceutical companies, universities and other research institutions. Competition for such individuals is intense, and we cannot be certain that our search for such personnel will be successful. Attracting and retaining qualified personnel will be critical to our success. 25 We may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our products in response to product liability lawsuits. The testing and marketing of medical products entail an inherent risk of product liability. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of our products. We currently carry clinical trial insurance in an amount up to $5,000,000, which may be inadequate to protect against potential product liability claims or may inhibit the commercialization of pharmaceutical products we develop, alone or with corporate collaborators. Although we intend to maintain clinical trial insurance during any clinical trials, this may be inadequate to protect us against any potential claims. Even if our agreements with any future corporate collaborators entitle us to indemnification against losses, such indemnification may not be available or adequate should any claim arise. We are controlled by current officers, directors and principal stockholders. Our directors, executive officers and principal stockholders beneficially own approximately 29 percent of our outstanding voting stock and, including shares underlying outstanding options and warrants. In addition, Nordin Biotech Venture Fund has the right to acquire up to 66,666,666 shares of our common stock (which would represent approximately 49% of our common stock as of March 17, 2009), resulting in Nordic owning approximately 49% of our common stock. Through its stock ownership, its right to acquire additional shares, its substantial control over the management of the Hedrin JV (which includes the ability to terminate our management contract with the Hedrin JV), and various covenants contained in our registration rights agreement with Nordic, Nordic has the ability to exert substantial influence over the election of our Board of Directors, the outcome of issues submitted to our stockholders, the development of Hedrin and our ability, as a company, to benefit from the successful development of Hedrin. Even without the exercise of its rights to acquire additional shares of our common stock, our directors, officers and principal stockholders, taken as a whole, have the ability to exert substantial influence over the election of our Board of Directors and the outcome of issues submitted to our stockholders. Risks Related to Our Securities Our stock price is, and we expect it to remain, volatile, which could limit investors’ ability to sell stock at a profit. During the last two fiscal years, our stock price has traded at a low of $0.007 in the fourth quarter of 2008 to a high of $1.10 in the second quarter of 2007. The volatile price of our stock makes it difficult for investors to predict the value of their investment, to sell shares at a profit at any given time, or to plan purchases and sales in advance. A variety of factors may affect the market price of our common stock. These include, but are not limited to: · The continuing global economic crisis, which has affected stock prices of many companies, and particularly many small pharmaceutical companies like ours; · publicity regarding actual or potential clinical results relating to products under development by our competitors or us; · delay or failure in initiating, completing or analyzing nonclinical or clinical trials or the unsatisfactory design or results of these trials; 26 · achievement or rejection of regulatory approvals by our competitors or us; · announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by our competitors or us; · developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents; · developments concerning our collaborations; · regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; · economic or other crises and other external factors; · period-to-period fluctuations in our revenues and other results of operations; · changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; and · sales of our common stock. We will not be able to control many of these factors, and we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our financial results will not necessarily be indicative of our future performance. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for biotechnology companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that may have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. We have delisted from the American Stock Exchange. As a result of our delisting, the liquidity of our common stock has been and may continue to be reduced, not only in terms of the number of shares that can be bought and sold at a given price, but also through delays in the timing of transactions and reduction in security analysts’ and the media’s coverage of us. This may result in lower prices for our common stock than might otherwise be obtained and could also result in a larger spread between the bid and asked prices for our common stock. We have never paid dividends. We have never paid dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying any dividends for the foreseeable future. You should not rely on an investment in our stock if you require dividend income. Further, you will only realize income on an investment in our stock in the event you sell or otherwise dispose of your shares at a price higher than the price you paid for your shares. Such a gain would result only from an increase in the market price of our common stock, which is uncertain and unpredictable. 27 ITEM 