risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations would suffer. In this case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and investors might lose all or part of their investment in our common stock. We have a history of losses, and we must successfully execute on our modified business model and restructuring plan if we are to sustain our operations. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, we had negative cash flows from our operations. Except for the second, third, and fourth quarters of fiscal 2005, we have historically reported negative cash flows from operations, because the gross profit, if any, generated from our operations has not been sufficient to cover our operating cash requirements. Since our inception, we have incurred a cumulative loss aggregating $679 million, which includes net losses of $23.5 million in fiscal 2006, $6.2 million in fiscal 2005, $106.8 million in fiscal 2004, and $87.6 million in fiscal 2003, which losses have reduced stockholders’ equity to $42.7 million at December 31, 2006. At the end of 2006 we determined that our existing cash and cash equivalents and short-term investment balances and cash from operations would not be sufficient to fund our operations, planned capital and research and development expenditures for the next twelve months under the business model that we pursued during 2005 and 2006, which model included three significant lines of business: (1) licensing of intellectual property and technology, (2) engineering services, and (3) product sales. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” below in Item 7. Accordingly, we announced in February 2007 that we are streamlining and restructuring our operations to focus on our core business of developing and licensing intellectual property and technology. In February 2007, we began the initial phase of our restructuring plan by decreasing our worldwide workforce by approximately 75 employees, most of whom worked in our engineering services business, and by initiating closures of our offices in Taiwan and Japan. We expect to further reduce our workforce by approximately 55 employees on or about March 31, 2007. Although we believe that if the 7 Table of Contents actions taken under our restructuring plan are successful, our existing cash and cash equivalents and short-term investment balances and cash from operations will be sufficient to fund our operations, planned capital and R&D expenditures in our focused business model through March 31, 2008, we recognize that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue to operate as a going concern for a period that extends at least through March 31, 2008, and that our ability to continue as a going concern depends upon our successful execution of our restructuring plan. We might fail to execute our restructuring plan or to operate successfully under our modified business model. In February 2007, we announced a restructuring plan to focus on our core business of developing and licensing intellectual property and technology. The modification of our business model entails significant risks and costs, and we might not succeed in operating within this model or under our restructuring plan for many reasons. These reasons include the risks that we might not be able to continue developing viable technologies, achieve market acceptance for our technologies, earn adequate revenues from the sale of our products or from our licensing business, or achieve sustained profitability. Employee concern about changes in our business model or the effect of such changes on their workloads or continued employment might cause our employees to seek or accept other employment, depriving us of the human and intellectual capital that we need in order to succeed. Because we necessarily lack historical operating and financial results for our modified business model, it will be difficult for us, as well as for investors, to predict or evaluate our business prospects and performance. Our business prospects would need to be considered in light of the uncertainties and difficulties frequently encountered by companies undergoing a business transition or in the early stages of development. The modification of our business model might also create uncertainties and cause our stock price to fall and impair our ability to raise additional capital. We might not be able to execute under our restructuring plan if we lose key management or technical personnel, on whose knowledge, leadership and technical expertise we rely. Our success under our modified business model will depend heavily upon the contributions of our key management and technical personnel, whose knowledge, leadership and technical expertise would be difficult to replace. Many of these individuals have been with us for several years and have developed specialized knowledge and skills relating to our technology and lines of business. Over the last year we have had substantial turnover in our executive management team, including the separations of our former president and CEO Arthur L. Swift in February 2007 and our former chief financial officer Mark R. Kent in May 2006. Some executives have joined us in key management roles only recently. In February 2007, Lester M. Crudele was appointed to serve as our president and chief executive officer, and Ralph J. Harms joined us as our chief financial officer in July 2006. All of our executive officers and key personnel are employees at will. We have no individual employment contracts and do not maintain key person insurance on any of our personnel. We might not be able to execute on our modified business model if we were to lose the services of any of our key personnel. If any of these individuals were to leave our company unexpectedly, we could face substantial difficulty in hiring qualified successors and could experience a loss in productivity while any such successor develops the necessary training and experience. Our lawsuit against Intel for patent infringement will be costly to litigate, could be decided adversely to us, and could adversely affect our intellectual property rights, distract our management and technical staff, and cause our stock price to decline. In October 2006, we filed a lawsuit against Intel Corporation in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware for infringement of certain Transmeta U.S. patents covering computer architecture and power efficiency technologies. Our complaint, as amended, charges that Intel has infringed and is infringing 11 Transmeta patents by making and selling a variety of microprocessor products including at least Intel’s Pentium III, Pentium 4, Pentium M, Core and Core2 product lines. Our complaint requests an injunction against Intel’s continuing sales of infringing products as well as monetary damages, including reasonable royalties on infringing products, treble damages and attorneys’ fees. Intel filed its Answer in January 2007. Intel denies that it has infringed any of the Transmeta patents and asserts that all of Transmeta’s patents are invalid and unenforceable for inequitable conduct. Intel’s Answer also includes counterclaims against Transmeta alleging that we have infringed seven Intel patents by making and selling our Crusoe and Efficeon families of processor products. Intel requests an injunction against our 8 Table of Contents continuing sales of our processor products as well as monetary damages, including reasonable royalties on infringing products, treble damages and attorneys’ fees. In February 2007, we filed our Reply to Intel’s counterclaims. We deny infringement of any of the Intel patents and contend that all of the Intel patents are invalid and that three of the Intel patents are unenforceable for inequitable conduct. The Court has scheduled the initial case management conference for April 2007. We expect that our lawsuit, if we cannot resolve it before trial, could require several years to litigate, and at this stage we cannot predict the duration or cost of such litigation. We also expect that our lawsuit, even if it is determined in our favor or settled by us on favorable terms, will be costly to litigate, and that the cost of such litigation could have an unexpectedly adverse financial impact on our operating results. The litigation could also distract our management team and technical personnel from our other business operations, to the detriment of our business results. It is possible that we might not prevail in our lawsuit against Intel, in which case our costs of litigation would not be recovered, and we could effectively lose some of our patent rights. It is also possible that Intel might respond to our lawsuit by asserting counterclaims against us or by leveraging its dominant commercial and market position to injure our current and potential business relationships, with adverse affects on our business results. Delays in the litigation, and any or all of these potential adverse results, could cause a substantial decline in our stock price. We may not be able to raise any more financing, or financing may only be available on terms unfavorable to us or our stockholders. Although we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents and short-term investment balances and cash from operations will be sufficient to fund our operations, planned capital and research and development expenditures for the next twelve months under our modified business model and related restructuring plan, it is possible that we may need to raise significant additional funds through public or private equity or debt financing in order to continue operations under our modified business model. Further, as we continue to develop new technologies in accordance with our modified business model, we might require more cash to fund our operations. Although we generated positive cash flows from operations during the second, third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2005, we have had a history of net losses and negative cash flow from operations and we might not sustain positive cash flow or profitability. A variety of other business contingencies could contribute to our need for funds in the future, including the need to: • fund expansion; • fund marketing expenditures; • develop or enhance our products or technologies; • enhance our operating infrastructure; • hire additional personnel; • respond to customer concerns about our viability; • respond to competitive pressures; or • acquire complementary businesses or technologies. If we were to raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders would be reduced, and these newly issued securities might have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our then-existing stockholders. For example, in order to raise equity financing, we may decide to sell our stock at a discount to our then current trading price, which may have an adverse effect on our future trading price. Although we can issue unregistered securities, or use other means to register our securities, we might not be able to raise additional financing on terms favorable to us, or at all. If we are unable to raise additional funds or to sustain our operations on a modified business model in the future, then substantial doubt may develop as to our ability to continue to operate our business as a going concern, with substantial adverse effects on the value of our common stock and our ability to raise additional capital. This uncertainty may also create concerns among our current and future customers, vendors and licensees as to whether we will be able to fulfill our obligations or, in the case of customers, fulfill their future product or service needs. As a result, our current and prospective customers, licensees and strategic partners might decide not to do business with us, or only do so on less favorable terms and conditions. Employee concern about the future of the business and their continued prospects for employment may cause employees to seek employment elsewhere, depriving us of the human and intellectual capital we need to be successful. 9 Table of Contents We may fail to meet the continued listing requirements of the Nasdaq Stock Market, which may cause our stock to be delisted and result in reduced liquidity of our stock, reduce the trading price of our stock, and impair our ability to raise financing. We have previously received notices of potential delisting of our stock from the Nasdaq National Market, now known as the Nasdaq Global Market, based on our failure to satisfy certain continued listing requirements of the Nasdaq Global Market, and we may be unable to satisfy those requirements in the future. To maintain our listing on the Nasdaq Global Market, we are required, among other things, both to make timely regular filings of periodic reports with the SEC and to maintain a minimum bid price per share of at least $1.00. On March 21, 2007, we received a letter from the Nasdaq Stock Market indicating that we were not in compliance with the Nasdaq Stock Market’s requirements for continued listing because, for the previous 30 consecutive business days, the bid price of the Company’s common stock had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued inclusion. We will be provided 180 calendar days, or until September 17, 2007, to regain compliance with the minimum bid price rule. If we are unable to regain and maintain compliance with this or other listing requirements, our common stock may be delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market. Delisting from the Nasdaq Global Market would adversely affect the trading price and limit the liquidity of our common stock and therefore cause the value of an investment in our company to substantially decrease. If our common stock were to be delisted, holders of our common stock would be less able to purchase or sell shares as quickly and as inexpensively as they have done historically. For instance, failure to obtain listing on another market or exchange may make it more difficult for traders to sell our securities. Broker-dealers may be less willing or able to sell or make a market in our common stock. The loss or discontinuation of our Nasdaq Global Market listing may result in a decrease in the trading price of our common stock due to a decrease in liquidity, reduced analyst coverage and less interest by institutions and individuals in investing in our common stock. Our licensing business depends on maintaining and increasing our LongRun2 licensing revenue, and we might be unsuccessful in our efforts to license our LongRun2 technology to other parties. Although we have achieved increased revenue in our licensing business, our licensing business revenue will depend upon executing our obligations under existing licensing agreements and our entering into new licensing agreements. Most of our licensing revenue is currently associated with international customers. Our ability to enter into new LongRun2 licensing agreements depends in part upon the adoption of our LongRun2 technology by our licensees and potential licensees, and the success of the products incorporating our technology sold by licensees. While we anticipate that we will continue our efforts to license our technology to licensees, we cannot predict the timing or the extent of any future licensing revenue, and recent levels of license revenues may not be indicative of future periods. We have limited visibility regarding when and to what extent our licensees will use our LongRun2 or other licensed technologies. We have not yet earned nor received any royalties from any of our LongRun2 licensees. Our receipt of royalties from our LongRun2 licenses depends on our licensees incorporating our technology into their manufacturing and products, their bringing their products to market, and the success of their products. Our licensees are not contractually obligated to manufacture, distribute or sell products using our licensed technologies. Thus, our entry into and our full performance of our obligations under our LongRun2 licensing agreements do not necessarily assure us of any future royalty revenue. Any royalties that we are eligible to receive are based upon our licensees’ use of our licensed technologies and, as a result, we do not have direct access to information that would enable us to forecast the timing and amount of any future royalties. Factors that negatively affect our licensees and their customers could adversely affect our future royalties. The success of our licensees is subject to a number of factors, including: • the competition these companies face and the market acceptance of their products; • the pricing policies of our licensees for their products incorporating our technology and whether those products are competitively priced; 10 Table of Contents • the engineering, marketing and management capabilities of these companies and technical challenges unrelated to our technology that they face in developing their products; and • the financial and other resources of our licensees. Because we do not control the business practices of our licensees and their customers, we have little influence on the degree to which our licensees promote our technology. Our licensing and services revenue cycle is long and unpredictable, which makes it difficult to predict future revenues, which may cause us to miss analysts’ estimates and may result in unexpected changes in our stock price. It is difficult to predict accurately our future revenues from either the granting of new licenses or the generation of royalties by our licensees under our existing licenses. In addition, engineering services are dependent upon the varying level of assistance desired by licensees and, therefore, revenue from these services is also difficult to predict. Most of our service revenue is currently associated with international customers. There can be no assurance that we can accurately estimate the amount of resources required to complete projects, or that we will have, or be able to expend, sufficient resources required to complete a project. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the development schedules of our licensees will not be changed or delayed. Our licensees are not obligated to continue using our licensed technology or to use future generations of our technologies in future manufacturing processes, and therefore our past contract revenue may not be indicative of the amount of such revenue in any future period. All of these factors make it difficult to predict future licensing and service revenue, which may result in us missing analysts’ estimates and may cause unexpected changes in our stock price. We currently derive a substantial portion of our revenue from a small number of customers and licensees, and our revenue would decline significantly if any major customer were to cancel, reduce or delay a transaction relating to our products, licenses and services. Our customer base is highly concentrated. For example, revenue from three customers in the aggregate accounted for 96% of total revenue during fiscal 2006. We expect that a small number of customers will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenue. Our customers and licensees are significantly larger than we are and have bargaining power to demand changes in terms and conditions of our agreements. The loss of any major customer or licensee, or delays in delivery or performance under our customer agreements, and could significantly reduce or delay our recognition of revenue. We face intense competition in the power management market. Many of our competitors are much larger than we are and have significantly greater resources. We may not be able to compete effectively. The development of power management and transistor leakage control technologies is an emerging field subject to rapid technological change, and our competition for licensing such technologies, and providing related services, is unknown and could increase. Our LongRun2 technologies are highly proprietary and, though the subject of patents and patents pending, are marketed primarily as trade secrets subject to strict confidentiality protocols. Although we are not aware of any other company having developed, offered or demonstrated any comparable power management or leakage control technologies, we note that most semiconductor companies have internal efforts to reduce transistor leakage and power consumption in current and future semiconductor products. Indeed, all of our current and prospective licensees are larger, technologically sophisticated companies, which generally have significant resources and internal efforts to develop their own technological solutions. If we do not keep pace with technological change, our technology offerings may not be competitive and our revenue and operating results may suffer. The semiconductor industry is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions and enhancements, and ongoing customer demands for greater performance. As a result, our technology offerings may not be competitive if we fail to develop and introduce new technology or technology enhancements 11 Table of Contents that meet evolving customer demands. It may be difficult or costly for us, or we may not be able, to enhance existing products to fully meet customer demands, particularly in view of our restructuring plan. Our technologies may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to become subject to expensive litigation, cause us to incur substantial damages, require us to pay significant license fees or prevent us from selling our products. Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. We cannot be certain that our products and technologies do not and will not infringe issued patents, patents that may be issued in the future, or other intellectual property rights of others. In addition, leading companies in the semiconductor industry have extensive intellectual property portfolios with respect to semiconductor technology. From time to time, third parties, including these leading companies, may assert exclusive patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related methods that are important to us. We expect that we may become subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our target markets grows and the functionality of products overlaps. We have received, and may in the future receive, communications from third parties asserting patent or other intellectual property rights covering our products. Litigation may be necessary in the future to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, to enforce our intellectual property rights, or to protect our trade secrets. We may also be subject to claims from customers for indemnification. Any resulting litigation, regardless of its resolution, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. If it were determined that our technologies infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we would need to obtain licenses from these parties or substantially reengineer our technologies in order to avoid infringement. We might not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms, or at all, or to reengineer our technologies successfully. Moreover, if we are sued for infringement and lose the suit, we could be required to pay substantial damages or be enjoined from licensing or using the infringing technology. Any of the foregoing could cause us to incur significant costs and prevent us from licensing our technologies Any dispute regarding our intellectual property may require us to indemnify certain licensees or third parties, the cost of which could severely hamper our business operations and financial condition. In any potential dispute involving our patents or other intellectual property, our licensees could also become the target of litigation. Our LongRun2 license agreements and certain of our development services agreements provide limited indemnities. Our indemnification obligations could result in substantial expenses. In addition to the time and expense required for us to supply such indemnification to our licensees, a licensee’s development, marketing and sales of licensed products incorporating our LongRun2 technology could be severely disrupted or shut down as a result of litigation, which in turn could severely hamper our business operations and financial condition. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights adequately, our competitors might gain access to our technology and we might not compete successfully in our markets. We believe that our success will depend in part upon our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws and contractual obligations with employees and third parties to protect our proprietary rights. These legal protections provide only limited protection and may be time consuming and expensive to obtain and enforce. If we fail to protect our proprietary rights adequately, our competitors might gain access to our technology. As a result, our competitors might offer similar products and we might not be able to compete successfully in our market. Moreover, despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may copy aspects of our products and obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Also, our competitors may independently develop similar, but not infringing, technology, duplicate our products, or design around our patents or our other intellectual property. In addition, other parties may breach confidentiality agreements or other protective contracts with us, and we may not be able to enforce our rights in the event of these breaches. Furthermore, the laws of many foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the 12 Table of Contents same extent as the laws of the United States. We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights. Our pending patent and trademark applications may not be approved. Our patents, including any patents that may result from our patent applications, may not provide us with any competitive advantage or may be challenged by third parties. If challenged, our patents might not be upheld or their claims could be narrowed. We may initiate claims or litigation against third parties based on our proprietary rights. Any litigation surrounding our rights could force us to divert important financial and other resources from our business operations. The evolution of our business could place significant strain on our management systems, infrastructure and other resources, and our business may not succeed if we fail to manage it effectively. Our ability to implement our business plan in a rapidly evolving market requires effective planning and management process. Changes in our business plans could place significant strain on our management systems, infrastructure and other resources. In addition, we expect that we will continue to improve our financial and managerial controls and procedures. We will also need to train and manage our workforce worldwide. If we fail to manage change effectively, our employee-related costs and employee turnover could increase and our business may not succeed. We have significant international operations, which exposes us to risk and uncertainties. We have licensed, and in the future we expect to license, most of our technologies to customers in Asia. In attempting to conduct and expand business internationally, we are exposed to various risks that could adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our operating results, including: • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, including imposition of currency exchange controls; • longer accounts receivable collection cycles; • import or export licensing requirements; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • major health concerns, such as SARS; • political and economic instability, for example as a result of tensions between Taiwan and the People’s Republic of China; and • potentially reduced protection for intellectual property rights. Our operating results are difficult to predict and fluctuate significantly. A failure to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors could result in a substantial decline in our stock price. Our operating results fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, and we expect that our operating results will fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of one or more of the risks described in this section or as a result of numerous other factors. You should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. Our stock price has declined substantially since our stock began trading publicly. If our future operating results fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price would likely decline from current levels. A large portion of our expenses, including rent and salaries, is fixed or difficult to reduce. Our expenses are based in part on expectations for our revenue. If our revenue does not meet our expectations, the adverse effect of the revenue shortfall upon our operating results may be acute in light of the fixed nature of our expenses. 13 Table of Contents We might experience payment disputes for amounts owed to us under our LongRun2 licensing agreements, and this may harm our results of operations. The standard terms of our LongRun2 license agreements require our licensees to document the royalties owed to us from the sale of products that incorporate our technology and report this data to us on a quarterly basis. While standard license terms give us the right to audit books and records of our licensees to verify this information, audits can be expensive, time consuming, and potentially detrimental to our ongoing business relationship with our licensees. Our failure to audit our licensees’ books and records may result in us receiving more or less royalty revenues than we are entitled to under the terms of our license agreements. The result of such royalty audits could result in an increase, as a result of a licensee’s underpayment, or decrease, as a result of a licensee’s overpayment, to previously reported royalty revenues. Such adjustments would be recorded in the period they are determined. Any adverse material adjustments resulting from royalty audits or dispute resolutions may result in us missing analyst estimates and causing our stock price to decline. Royalty audits may also trigger disagreements over contract terms with our licensees and such disagreements could hamper customer relations, divert the efforts and attention of our management from normal operations and impact our business operations and financial condition. The price of our common stock has been volatile and is subject to wide fluctuations. The market price of our common stock has been volatile and is likely to remain subject to wide fluctuations in the future. Many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, including: • variations in our quarterly results; • market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers and the economy as a whole; • announcements of technological innovations by us or by our competitors; • introductions of new products or new pricing policies by us or by our competitors; • acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or by our competitors; • recruitment or departure of key personnel; • the gain or loss of significant orders; • the gain or loss of significant customers; and • Changes in the estimates of our operating performance or changes in recommendations by securities analysts. In addition, the stock market generally and the market for semiconductor and other technology-related stocks in particular experienced a decline during 2000, 2001 and through 2002, and could decline from current levels, which could cause the market price of our common stock to fall for reasons not necessarily related to our business, results of operations or financial condition. The market price of our stock also might decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry even if these events do not directly affect us. Accordingly, you may not be able to resell your shares of common stock at or above the price you paid. Securities litigation is often brought against a company following a period of volatility in the market price of its securities, and we have been subject to such litigation in the past. Any such lawsuits in the future will divert management’s attention and resources from other matters, which could also adversely affect our business and the price of our stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, stockholder rights plan and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage or prevent a takeover, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include: • establishing a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board may be elected at one time; 14 Table of Contents • providing that directors may be removed only “for cause” and only with the vote of 662/3% of our outstanding shares; • requiring super-majority voting to amend some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws; • authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that our board could issue to increase the number of shares outstanding and to discourage a takeover attempt; • limiting the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, which requires all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; and • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board or for proposals that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, the stockholder rights plan, which we implemented in 2002, and Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control. Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States are subject to issuance and interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC, and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. For example, in December 2004, FASB issued SFAS 123(R), “Share-Based Payment”, which replaces SFAS 123 and supersedes APB 25. We were required to adopt SFAS 123(R) in our first quarter of fiscal year 2006. SFAS 123(R) requires that compensation costs relating to share-based payment transactions be recognized in the financial statements. The pro forma disclosure previously permitted under SFAS 123 will no longer be an acceptable alternative to recognition of expense in the financial statements. The adoption of SFAS 123(R) has and will continue to result in a decrease in any earnings that we report. We may identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. In compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we test our system of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31 of the applicable fiscal year. In our evaluation as of December 31, 2004, we identified six material weaknesses. A material weakness is a control deficiency, or a combination of control deficiencies, that results in there being more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. The material weaknesses that we had identified affected all of our significant accounts. Certain of those material weaknesses resulted in a restatement of our previously filed financial results for the second quarter of fiscal 2004 and affected the balances of our inventories, other accrued liabilities and cost of revenue accounts. We remediated all of those material weaknesses in our system of internal control over financial reporting in 2005, but we cannot assure you that we will not in the future identify further material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 