Item 1A. Risk Factors. Given the inherent uncertainty and complexity of the businesses that we engage in, our results from operations and financial condition could be materially adversely impacted as set forth below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impact our business operations. Our success depends significantly on the establishment and maintenance of successful relationships with our customers. We have relied on governmental customers for a substantial portion of our revenue. Approximately 65% of our revenue in fiscal year 2009 was generated by various NASA and U.S. Government contracts or subcontracts. The loss of these partners could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot make any assurances that they will require our services in the future, thereforewe continue to work on diversifying our customer base to include other government agencies and commercial industries, while going to great lengths to satisfy the needs of our current customer base. Termination of our future orders could negatively impact our revenues. As of June 30, 2009, ASO had a backlog of approximately $25.4 million. Backlog consists of the remaining contract values that have not been recognized. Approximately 95% of ASO’s contract backlog as of June 30, 2009, was derived from mission contracts. Since our government contracts are contingent upon congressional appropriations and can be terminated “for convenience,” we cannot assure that our backlog will ultimately result in revenues. A branch of the U.S. Government or a commercial competitor could construct spacecraft ground processing facilities, which could significantly reduce the number of missions using Astrotech facilities. Astrotech provides services for domestic launch sites. In the event that the U.S. Government constructs spacecraft ground processing facilities would compete with the launch sites currently serviced by Astrotech, there could be a reduced need for the use of Astrotech facilities. This would result in direct competition for our existing customers in connection to servicing domestic launch sites, which could significantly reduce our revenues. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against any new competitor in this area or that these competitive pressures we may face will not result in reduced revenues and market share. Compliance with environmental and other government regulations could be costly and could negatively affect our financial condition. Our business, particularly our ASO business unit, is subject to numerous laws and regulations governing the operation and maintenance of our facilities and the release or discharge of hazardous or toxic substances, including spacecraft fuels and oxidizers, into the environment. Under these laws and regulations, we could be liable for personal injury and cleaning costs and other environmental and property damages, as well as administrative, civil, and criminal penalties. In the event of a violation of these laws, or a release of hazardous substances at or from our facilities, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. As a U.S. Government contractor, we are subject to a number of rules and regulations, the violation of which could result in us being barred from future U.S. Government contracts. We must comply with, and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the award, administration, and performance of U.S. Government contracts. These laws and regulations, among other things: • Require certification and disclosure of all cost or pricing data in connection with certain contract negotiations. • Impose acquisition regulations that define allowable and unallowable costs and otherwise govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based U.S. Government contracts. • Restrict the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the exportation of certain products and technical data. A violation of specific laws and regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties, the termination of our contracts, or disbarment from bidding on U.S. Government contracts. Additionally, U.S. Government contracts generally contain provisions that allow the U.S. Government to unilaterally suspend us from receiving new contracts pending resolution of alleged violations of certain federal laws or regulations, reduce the value of existing contracts, issue modifications to a contract, and control and potentially prohibit the export of our services and associated materials. Prohibition against bidding on future U.S. Government contracts would have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to comply with U.S. export control laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. We are obligated by law and under contract to comply, and to ensure that our subcontractors comply, with all U.S. export control laws and regulations, including the International Traffic in Arms Regulations and the Export Administration Regulations. We are responsible for obtaining all necessary licenses or other approvals, if required, for exports of hardware, technical data, and software, or for the provision of technical assistance. We are also required to obtain export licenses, if required, before utilizing foreign persons in the performance of our contracts if the foreign person will have access to export-controlled technical data or software. The violation of any of the applicable export control laws and regulations, whether by us or any of our subcontractors, could subject us to administrative, civil, and criminal penalties. 7 Table of Contents Our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit by the U.S. Government. U.S. Government agencies, including NASA, routinely audit and investigate government contractors. These agencies review a contractor’s performance under its contracts, cost structure, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards. The U.S. Government may also review the adequacy of, and a contractor’s compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor’s purchasing, property, estimating, compensation, and management information systems. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, while such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. If an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. Government. In addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm that affects our non-governmental business if allegations of impropriety were made against us. Our facilities located in Florida and California are susceptible to damage caused by hurricanes, earthquakes, or other natural disasters. Our ASO spacecraft processing facilities on the east coast of Florida are susceptible to damage caused by hurricanes or other natural disasters. In addition, our leased launch processing facilities at VAFB and the facilities we operate at the Port of Long Beach are subject to damage caused by earthquakes. Although we insure our properties and maintain business interruption insurance, there can be no guarantee that the coverage would be sufficient. A natural disaster could result in a temporary or permanent closure of our business operations, thus impacting our future financial performance. Due to our dependence on the timing of spacecraft launches, our results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. The use of our ASO spacecraft processing facilities is highly dependent upon the number of satellite launches planned and executed each year. Additionally, factors beyond our direct control, such as a delay or accident at a launch vehicle support facility, could cause a material change in our financial results. As a result, significant fluctuations should be expected from quarter to quarter in our operating results. The loss of key management and other employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are dependent on the personal efforts and abilities of our senior management, and our success will also depend on our ability to attract and retain additional qualified employees. Failure to attract personnel sufficiently qualified to execute our strategy, or to retain existing key personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we are unable to anticipate technological advances and customer requirements in the commercial and governmental markets, our business and financial condition will be adversely affected. Our business strategy outlines the use of decades of experience to expand the services and products we offer to both the governmental and commercial industries. We believe that our growth and future financial performance depend upon our ability to anticipate technological advances and customer requirements. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve the necessary technological advances for us to remain competitive. In 2009, we continued new business initiatives for advancing commerce in space. These new business initiatives will require substantial investments of capital and technical expertise. Our failure to anticipate or respond adequately to changes in technology and market requirements, or delays in additional product development or introduction, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. Additionally, the cost of capital to fund these businesses will likely require dilution of shareholders. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to pay off or refinance our indebtedness with near-term maturities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We cannot assure that our business will generate cash flows from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to pay our maturing indebtedness as it falls due. As a result, we may need to refinance all or a portion of the debt or we may need to secure new financing before maturity. We cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain financing on reasonable terms or at all, particularly given the general economic situation and lending environment we currently face. Our earnings and margins may vary due to the nature of our fixed-priced contracts. Our business mix includes cost-reimbursable and fixed-price contracts. Cost-reimbursable contracts generally have lower profit margins than fixed-price contracts. Our ASO business unit contracts are mainly fixed-price contracts. If we are unable to control costs we incur in performing under the contract, our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. 8 Table of Contents Additionally, the costs incurred to operate our core ASO business are near-term fixed. As a result, if we are not able to schedule payload processing in order to optimize our facilities our financial results could be adversely affected. We plan to develop new products and services. No assurances can be given that we will be able to successfully develop these products and services. Our business strategy outlines the use of decades of experience we have accumulated to expand the services and products we offer to both government and commercial industries. These services and products generally involve the commercial exploitation of space, and involve new and untested technologies and business models. These technologies and business models may not be successful, which could result in the loss of any investment we make in developing them. Our financial results could be adversely affected if the estimates that we use in accounting for contracts are incorrect and need to be changed. Contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. We rely on the application of consistent business processes in order to minimize material error and maximize reporting transparency. The estimation of total revenues and cost at completion for many of our contracts is complicated and subject to many unknown variables. If our performance under a cost reimbursable contract results in an award fee that is lower than we have estimated, we would be required to refund previously billed fee amounts and would have to adjust our revenue recognition accordingly. If our performance was determined to be significantly deficient, we may be required to reimburse our customer for the entire amount of previously billed awards. Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances, or estimates may adversely affect future period financial performance. Our spacecraft payload processing facilities are specifically designed to process satellites and other payloads and we would lose a substantial portion of their value if we no longer provide these services. Our ASO spacecraft processing facilities were built specifically to process satellites and space related payloads. If we were required to terminate the processing businesses, the value of these facilities could be impaired and, as a result, the impact on financial condition and results of operations will likely be negatively impacted. Our inability to maintain required government security clearances and the impact of foreign ownership or control could result in a loss of potential future spacecraft ground processing and other opportunities. In order to be a service and product provider for spacecraft ground processing and other related activities, we are required to maintain certain government security clearances and we must comply with laws that limit foreign ownership and control. We may be subject to regulatory action and other sanctions if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations relating to required security clearances and foreign ownership and control. This could harm our reputation, our prospects for future work and our operating results. We incur substantial upfront, non-reimbursable costs in preparing proposals to bid on contracts that we may not be awarded. Preparing a proposal to big on a contract is generally a three to six month process. This process is labor-intensive and results in the incurrence of substantial costs that are generally not retrievable. Additionally, although we may not be awarded a contract, work performance does not commence for several months following completion of the bidding process. If funding problems by the party awarding the contract or other matters further delay our commencement of work, these delays may lower the value of the contract, or possibly render it unprofitable. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 