Item 1A Risk Factors Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2 Properties Item 3 Legal Proceedings Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6 Selected Financial Data Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A Controls and Procedures Item 9A (T) Controls and Procedures Item 9B Other Information PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Item 11 Executive Compensation Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence PART IV Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules Signatures All financial amounts are in thousands except share and per share data. Table of Contents NOTE REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7, contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, as well as assumptions that, if they never materialize or prove incorrect, could cause the results of MGT Capital Investments, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries (the “Company”) to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including any projections of revenue, gross margin, expenses, earnings or losses from operations, synergies or other financial items; any statements of the plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations, including the rate of market development and acceptance of medical imaging technology; the execution of restructuring plans; any statement concerning developments, performance or industry rankings relating to products or services; any statements regarding future economic conditions or performance; any statements of expectation or belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. The risks, uncertainties and assumptions referred to above include the performance of contracts by suppliers, customers and partners; employee management issues; the difficulty of aligning expense levels with revenue changes; and other risks that are described herein, including but not limited to the specific risks areas discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 of this report, and that are otherwise described from time to time in the Company’s periodic disclosure statements and for reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements. The Company’s main operating currency is UK sterling (£). 1 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1 BUSINESS MGT Capital Investments, Inc (“MGT”, “we”, “us”, “the Group”, “the Company”) is a holding company. We currently have a controlling interest in our two main operating subsidiaries: Medicsight plc (“Medicsight”) and Medicexchange Limited (“Medicexchange”). We also have wholly owned subsidiaries MGT Capital Investments (UK) Limited, MGT Investments (Gibraltar) Limited, Medicexchange Inc., Medicsight Nominees Limited, HTTP Tech Inc. and Medical Vision Systems Inc. · Medicsight and its wholly owned subsidiaries is a medical imaging software development company listed on the AIM market of the London Stock Exchange (Ticker symbol “MDST”) that develops and commercializes enterprise-wide Computer-Aided Detection (“CAD”) applications which analyze Computer Tomography (“CT”) scans to assist radiologists in the early detection and measurement of colorectal polyps and lung lesions. The Company holds 86 million shares (55%) of the 155 million issued share capital of Medicsight. · Medicexchange and its majority owned subsidiaries provide medical imaging professionals with a global web portal containing an online sales channel for diagnostic, treatment and surgery planning solutions. This combined with a variety of relevant clinical papers, training materials and content gives these medical imaging professionals access to information and products that they otherwise would have difficulty accessing. The Company holds 22.5 million shares (73%) of the 30.8 million issued share capital of Medicexchange. Medicexchange’s shares are not publicly traded. Medicsight Medicsight plc is an industry leader in the development of Computer-Aided Detection and image analysis software to assist radiologists in the early detection and diagnosis of disease. The Company’s focus continues to be on developing CAD software applications and related technologies that help clinicians analyse medical images generated from CT scanners for the early detection of potential colonic polyps. Product development Medicsight’s core technology is the proprietary ColonCAD™ algorithm that is integrated (using application protocol interface (“API”) technology) into visualisation workstations for radiologists to use when reviewing a patient’s colon scan data. The CAD algorithm assists the radiologist as they search for polyps in the CT scan image data. The radiologist uses the visualisation software to review the patient’s CT scan images on the screen and search for polyps (potentially pre-cancerous lesions on the wall of the colon). After a full review the radiologist then activates the Medicsight ColonCAD™ software - which immediately displays “CAD marks” on the images, drawing the radiologist’s attention to potential polyps. The radiologist will then assess the marked regions in order to make the final decision as to the presence or absence of a lesion. Clinical studies have demonstrated that radiologists assisted by Medicsight’s ColonCAD™ technology have a significantly higher sensitivity for the detection of polyps in CT colonography compared to unassisted reading (i.e. traditional reading without the use of ColonCAD™). A recent study, presented by Dr Stuart Taylor (a consultant radiologist at London’s University College Hospital), at the 2008 annual Radiological Society of North America Conference, ColonCAD™ demonstrated a sensitivity of 85% for colonic polyps of size 5mm and larger, and 95% for polyps of 10mm and larger. Polyp size is the main criterion for follow-up action after a positive CT Colonography finding; polyps in the 6mm to 9mm range are often monitored over time whilst polyps with a diameter of 10mm or greater are recommended for optical colonoscopy follow up and possible removal. During 2008 the Group completed work on ColonCAD 4.0 and formally launched this product at the European Congress of Radiology in March 2009. This new release significantly reduces the number of false-positive CAD marks presented to a radiologist reviewing a patient data set. This should lead to further improvements in reader performance when assisted by the ColonCAD™ software. This ColonCAD 4.0 upgrade will be integrated in to our partner workstation and released into the European market during 2009. We believe that this version of ColonCAD™ extends Medicsight’s position as a provider of one of the world’s leading colon CAD software solutions. Medicsight’s ColonCAD™ has been developed and validated using a large database of CT scans from hospitals around the world and has been assessed in many clinical studies, the results of which have been published in peer-reviewed publications and presented at leading radiology conferences. The MedicRead product is Medicsight’s advanced visualisation software application with integrated Colon, Lung and Liver modules. Medicsight launched MedicRead 1.0 in 2008. The next version of this product will be released in 2009 and will include improved workflow flexibility, improved 3D visualisation options, as well as the ColonCAD 4.0 within the CT Colonography module. 2 Table of Contents MedicRead is a flexible option for hospitals and clinics unable to invest large capital sums in new image analysis infrastructure. MedicRead can be deployed either on a standalone basis or integrated into an existing clinical IT infrastructure (e.g. a PACS environment). In addition to which, MedicRead will be available directly to end users via an easily accessible online download from the Medicsight portal. In 2008 Medicsight began work on MedicServer - a server-based application which enables the centralisation of the ColonCAD™ data processing and then the distribution of the CAD results to workstations around the healthcare enterprise network. We will begin integrating MedicServer into our partner applications in 2009. As clinical IT architecture moves towards an enterprise model and central processing, and away from desk-top solutions, we believe that MedicServer will become a compelling offering to the market. At the Radiology Society of North America (“RSNA”), 95th Scientific Assembly and Annual Meeting, Medicsight unveiled its online MedicRead colon, lung and liver solution. We plan to regulate and release this product in selected territories during 2009. Longer term projects Our recent focus has been on developing the colon family. Some longer term colon related opportunities we are researching include: · Flat lesions (which are non-protruding lesions in the Colon) have recently received much clinical interest. The Medicsight team are researching CAD technology for the detection of these flat lesions to compliment the existing ColonCAD™ application. · Working with leading London academic and clinical centres, Medicsight has initiated research projects to explore additional CAD technologies in the field of optical endoscopy, with a view to these technologies improving work flow and combining information from multiple data sources in real time. · In addition to the colon CAD applications Medicsight have developed an early version of a CO2 insufflation device called MedicCO2lon. Each patient that has a CT colon scan requires their colon to be insufflated (distended) with either CO2 gas or room air administered prior to the acquisition of their CT colonography images. Good quality insufflation is essential for the acquisition of high quality images from the CT colonography examination. Regulatory approvals and submissions In November 2008 Medicsight submitted the ColonCAD™ 510(k) application to the US Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) for clearance in the USA. In December 2008 we received an Additional Information (“AI”) letter from the FDA. In March 2009 we submitted our response to the FDA’s enquires. In November 2007 we submitted our MedicRead Colon application to the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare (“MHLW”) regulatory authorities in Japan. During 2008 we attended a number of meetings with ministry officials, demonstrated the product, answered specific questions regarding the product application and formally responded to questions from the MHLW. In 2008 the Group received approvals from the Chinese State Food and Drug Administration (“SFDA”) for its MedicRead Colon workstation and from the Brazilian regulatory agency, Agencia Nacional de Vigilancia Sanitaria (“ANVISA”), for its ColonCAD™ and MedicRead Colon Products. In addition to the above our product has Canadian regulatory approval from the Therapeutic Products Directorate of Health Canada and the Australian Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA). In March 2009 the Group CE marked the latest version of the Medicsight ColonCAD 4.0. Clinical Activity The Group’s Clinical Development team continued their work with Medicsight’s network of global medical luminaries. A North American Medical Advisory Board meeting was held in Boston in 2008. A European Medical Advisory Board meeting was held in January 2009. In total 16 key opinion leaders attended, giving feedback into Medicsight’s product roadmap and clinical development plan. Medicsight ColonCAD™ is being used in a number of government-funded studies looking at the performance of CT colonography and the comparison of CT colonography with existing imaging methods, such as barium enema examination and optical colonoscopy, both used for assessment of the colon and in the detection of colorectal cancer. The British Special Interest Group in Gastrointestinal and Abdominal Radiology (“SIGGAR”) completed patient recruitment for the SIGGAR1 trial in late 2007. (SIGGAR1 is the largest UK randomised control trial to date and compares CTC with two other widely-used imaging approaches, optical colonoscopy and barium enema). Medicsight’s ColonCAD™ is the only CAD product to be involved in this trial. The study outcome data was reviewed in 2008, with the results currently undergoing final statistical analysis and expected to be announced later this year. 3 Table of Contents ColonCAD™ has also been used in the first CT colonography colorectal cancer screening programme undertaken in Japan. The screening trial is ongoing at the National Cancer Centre in Tokyo. ColonCAD™ has been used on a number of patients within the screening programme and the results of this assessment are currently undergoing review between Japanese and UK clinicians with the expectation that results will be presented later in 2009. The Medicsight ColonCAD™ software is also integrated into visualisation software used to read CT colonography examinations for the French STIC trial (“Sciences et Technologies de l’Information et de la Communication”, “Information and Communication Science and Technology”). The trial, undertaken across more than 20 sites in France, is a prospective multi-center evaluation of CTC as a screening technique, including the use of CAD for examination interpretation. The study will also assess the cost effectiveness of CTC screening. Recruitment has continued throughout 2008 towards the target of 1,500 trial participants. In 2008 we signed an exclusive CAD clinical research agreement with leading US CT Colonography radiologists, Dr. Perry Pickhardt and Dr. David Kim, from the University of Wisconsin Medical School, Madison, Wisconsin. Dr. Pickhardt, Associate Professor of Radiology and Dr Kim along with The University of Wisconsin were the first group to establish a third-party reimbursed CT colonography colorectal cancer screening programme in 2004. Since then they have both played an instrumental role in building the clinical evidence base that has proven the comparable effectiveness of CTC for the detection of colorectal neoplasia within an asymptomatic population in relation to Optical Colonoscopy. A key milestone recently achieved, partly as a result of their research, was the release of the American Cancer Society 2008 Consensus Guidelines that focus on colon cancer prevention and for the first time have recommended CTC be provided every five years for adults aged 50 years and over. Under this research program Drs Pickhardt and Kim will undertake a research study evaluating the standalone performance of Medicsight’s latest ColonCAD 4.0 in comparison to experienced radiologists in detecting colorectal polyps. Medicsight’s products continue to have a profile at major international radiology conferences and throughout 2008 the Group exhibited its ColonCAD™ and MedicRead Colon applications at the European Congress of Radiology (“ECR”) annual meeting in Vienna in March, the annual meeting of Japanese Radiological Society (“JRS”) in April, the European Society of Gastrointestinal and Abdominal Radiology (“ESGAR”) in Istanbul in June, the Japanese Digestive Disease Week (“JDDW”) congress in October 2008, the Asia Oceanic Congress of Radiology (“AOCR”) in Seoul in October and the Radiological Society of North America (“RSNA”) annual meeting in Chicago in November; as well as exhibiting at other international radiology conferences. Scientific research featuring Medicsight’s ColonCAD™ application was also presented at the ECR, ESGAR and RSNA meetings. Through 2008 Medicsight continued its support of a number of international CT colonography training workshops. Workshops were held in Victoria, BC, Canada in May and Chicago, Illinois in August. Medicsight once again supported the two annual ESGAR CTC workshops — in Vigo, Spain and Berlin, Germany during 2008. All these workshops train radiologists to interpret CTC images using the latest visualisation and CAD technology and are fundamental to the increasing acceptance and implementation of CT colonography as a routine imaging examination for investigation of the colon. Commercial progress Medicsight’s primary route to market is via partnerships with global advance visualisation companies, PACS suppliers and other OEM’s. In February 2008 Medicsight signed a preliminary agreement with the System Integration division of Toshiba Medical Systems Corporation for the resale of its MedicRead Colon and ColonCAD™ software solutions throughout Japan. This collaboration consists of a three year clinical programme which will deliver eight clinical studies to support both the regulatory and sales and marketing efforts of Medicsight and Toshiba. In April 2008 Medicsight announced new global marketing partnership with INFINITT, and successfully demonstrated the integration of Medicsight’s ColonCAD™ software and Infinitt Xelis Colon application at major tradeshows in Korea and USA. In November 2008, Medicsight signed a global partnership agreement with Ziosoft Inc for the integration of Medicsight ColonCAD™ API within the Ziosoft 3D advanced visualization platform and distribution through the Ziosoft network. These partnership agreements are in addition to our existing agreements with Vital Images Inc., TeraRecon Inc., Viatronix Inc. and Barco NV (who have recently been acquired by Toshiba), 3Mensio BV and Intrasense SAS. We have commercial discussions in progress with other global partners that we expect to complete in 2009. Revenue and Growth Strategy While still limited, revenues are growing — we recorded $191 in 2008 compared to $41 in 2007. Medicsight ended 2008 with net assets of $25,302 including $26,624 of cash and short term deposits. At various points during the year we have invested our surplus cash in highly liquid, blue chip marketable securities and foreign currencies. At December 31, 2008 all of our liquid assets were held as short term cash balances, mainly in sterling. Post year end, we continue to hold our surplus cash on short term deposit. 4 Table of Contents In early 2009 the board completed a review of the product development roadmap, the status of regulatory approvals and partner integration activities, and initiated a cost restructuring program to drive cashflow savings without jeopardizing longer term plans. As part of this process and to concentrate on restructuring the MGT Capital Investments, Inc. group of companies, Medicsight restructured its board. Tim Paterson-Brown stepped down as Executive Chairman but remains on the board as a Non-Executive Director. David Sumner was promoted to the role of Executive Chairman and Allan Rowley, previously Chief Financial Officer was promoted to Chief Executive Officer. Troy Robinson, previously Group Financial Controller was promoted to Chief Financial Officer. Competition The Company’s competitors can be divided into two categories: (a) MDCT scanner manufacturers such as GE, Hitachi, Philips, Siemens and Toshiba; and (b) independent CAD software providers. A number of MDCT manufacturers offer CAD solutions that are available in European markets, however currently the only FDA approved CAD is Siemens Lung CAD. In the CAD vendor market, there are a number of small, independent software providers, which include: · im3D (Italy) — have developed a Colon CAD product that is CE certified but not FDA cleared; · Median Technologies (France) — have developed a Colon CAD product and a Lung CAD (CAD-lung) — both have CE approval but not FDA clearance; · Mevis Medical Solutions AG (Germany) — have a Lung CAD product that is FDA approved; and · iCAD Inc. (USA) — have developed a Colon CAD product but not FDA cleared. Patents and Trademarks Protection of our proprietary technology and our rights over that technology, from copy or unchallenged and improper use, is essential to our future success. Any challenges to, or disputes concerning, our core technology may result in great expense to us, delays in bringing products to market and disruption of our focus on our core activities. They may also result in loss of rights over our technology or the right to operate in particular markets due to adverse legal decisions against us. Medicsight has filed patent applications in the United Kingdom, the United States, the European Patent Office, Japan, South Korea, Australia, Canada, and under the International Patent Cooperation Treaty (which currently has 128 member countries) covering our core technologies and their applications. We have recently filed new patent applications covering technology of both Medicsight CAD and intend to continue filing new applications in the future. Two patents have been granted in the US covering aspects of Medicsight CAD technology. Although prior art searches have been carried out, we cannot provide assurance that any or all of the pending patents will be granted or that they will not be challenged, or that rights granted to us will actually provide us with advantage over our competitors. Medicsight actively reviews third party patents and is not currently aware of any that our products will infringe. “Medicsight” ® , “Medicsight Colon Screen” ® , “Medicsight Lung Screen” ® , “Medicsight Colon CAR” ® , “Medicsight Lung CAR” ® , “Medicsight Computer Assisted Reader” ® , “Medicsight See More, Save More” ® and “Lung CAR” ® have been registered as trademarks in the United Kingdom. “Medicsight” ® has also been registered in the United States, the European Union, Australia, China and a number of other countries. “MedicRead” ® has been registered as a trademark in the European Union. These trademarks are important to the corporate identity in connection with Medicsight CAD. Failure to register appropriate patents, copyrights or trademarks in any jurisdiction may impede our ability to create brand awareness in our products, result in expenses in pursuing our rights with respect to our intellectual property, or result in lost revenues due to intellectual property disputes. Where we may be required to purchase licenses from sellers with prior rights in any country, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so at a commercially acceptable cost. Medicsight’s admission to the AIM Market of the London Stock Exchange On June 21, 2007, Medicsight completed its initial public offering on the AIM Market of the London Stock Exchange. 29 million new shares were issued to institutional and other investors at a price of £1.10 ($2.20) per share raising £32,000 ($64,115) gross new money. Medicsight incurred fees of £1,550 ($3,096), including fees of $298 with Asia IT Capital Investments Ltd (a related party). £5,500 ($11,100) of the net proceeds were used to repay debt (between Medicsight and the Company). 5 Table of Contents Immediately prior to the Medicsight IPO the Company sold down, by private placement, 11.7 million of its Medicsight plc shares. The shares were priced at £1.10 ($2.20) — the same price as the Medicsight IPO. Gross proceeds on the private placement were £12,845 ($25,736). We incurred fees with Asia IT Capital Investments Ltd (a related party) of £578 ($1,167). These proceeds were received on July 27, 2007. After the Company’s private placement and the Medicsight IPO, the Company held 85 million of the 155 million issued share capital of Medicsight. Since the IPO the Company bought back 1 million of Medicsight’s shares bringing our holding to 86 million shares, which is 55% of the outstanding share capital of Medicsight. Medicexchange Limited Medicexchange is an embryonic global imaging portal focusing on the medical vision sector that owns and operates two websites, Medicexchange.com aimed at North America and Europe and Maydeal.com in China (acquired in April 2008). Medicexchange has endeavored to build traffic, registered users and revenues from North America, Europe and China. Whilst user numbers have been increasing, revenue generation has not been forthcoming due to tightening of corporate advertising budgets and the general global economic conditions. Management are currently reviewing options for the Medicexchange business. Other investments In addition to Medicsight and Medicexchange we have small investments in XShares LLC, Hipcricket Inc and Eurindia Limited. Due to general economic conditions all three of these investments have been impaired during 2008 (See note 5). We are currently reviewing our strategy for these investments. Employees strategy As of December 31, 2008 the Company and its subsidiaries had 96 employees, all of whom were full-time employees. Our employees are not part of a union. 6 Table of Contents Financial Information Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements provides information on the Company’s segment reporting. General MGT was originally incorporated as a Utah corporation in 1977 and was re-incorporated in Delaware in 2000. At December 31, 2008 the Company’s authorized share capital was 75,000,000 shares of common stock, par value of $0.001. In January 2007 the Company changed its name from Medicsight Inc. to MGT Capital Investments, Inc. At March 27, 2009, 38,900,383 shares of our common stock had been issued and 32,550,590 were outstanding. Our principal executive office is located at Kensington Centre, 66 Hammersmith Road, London W14 8UD, United Kingdom, telephone 011-44-207-605-1151, facsimile 011-44-207-605-1171. Our web address is www.mgtci.com. Information on our website is not included as a part of this Annual Report. Available information We will provide, upon request and free of charge, paper copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, including any amendments to the foregoing reports, as soon as is reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. These materials along with our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics are also available through our corporate website at www.mgtci.com. A copy of this annual report on Form 10-K is located at the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The public may also download these materials from the Securities and Exchange Commission’s website at http://www.sec.gov. Any amendments to, and waivers of, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics will be posted on our corporate website. 7 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Discussion of our business and operations included in this annual report on Form 10-K should be read together with the risk factors set forth below. They describe various risks and uncertainties to which we are or may become subject. These risks and uncertainties, together with other factors described elsewhere in this report, have the potential to affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies or prospects in a material and adverse manner. New risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our financial performance. Each of the risks described below could adversely impact the value of our securities. These statements, like all statements in this report, speak only as of the date of this report (unless another date is indicated), and we undertake no obligation to update or revise the statements in light of future developments. We cannot assure you that MGT will be successful in commercializing any of the Group’s products and, in particular, the Medicsight products or the Medicexchange portal, or if any of the products or the portal are commercialized, that they will prove to be profitable for the Company. MGT has only had a limited operating history and has just commenced generating revenue from operations upon which an evaluation of its prospects can be made. MGT’s prospects must be considered keeping in mind the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered in the establishment of a new business in a constantly changing industry. There can be no assurance that MGT will be able to achieve profitable operations in the foreseeable future if at all. MGT has identified a number of specific risk areas that may affect MGT’s operations and results in the future: Company specific risks We may be unable to develop our existing or future technology. Our Medicsight CAD system may not deliver the levels of accuracy and reliability needed to make it a successful product in the market place. Additionally, the development of such accuracy and reliability may be indefinitely delayed or may never be achieved. Failure to develop this or other technology could have an adverse material effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. The market for our technology may be slow to develop, if at all. The market for the Medicsight CAD products and Medicexchange.com may be slower to develop or smaller than estimated or it may be more difficult to build the market than anticipated. The medical community may resist Medicsight CAD and the Medicexchange.com products or be slower to accept them than we anticipate. Revenues from Medicsight CAD and Medicexchange.com may be delayed or costs may be higher than anticipated which may result in the Company requiring additional funding. If any of these situations were to occur this could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. We may be slow to receive required regulatory approvals from respective government regulators, if we receive them at all. The Medicsight CAD system is subject to regulatory requirements in the United States of America, Europe, Japan, China and our other targeted markets. Necessary regulatory approvals may not be obtained or may be delayed. We may incur substantial additional cost in obtaining regulatory 8 Table of Contents approvals for our products in our targeted markets. The failure to obtain these approvals and/or the associated costs could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. The medical imaging market we operate in is highly competitive. There are a number of groups and organizations, such as software companies in the medical imaging field, MDCT scanner manufacturers, screening companies and other healthcare providers that may develop a competitive offering to the Medicsight CAD products and Medicexchange.com. In addition these competitors may have significantly greater resources than MGT. We cannot make any assurance that they will not attempt to develop such offerings, that they will not be successful in developing such offerings or that any offerings they may develop will not have a competitive edge over Medicsight CAD products and Medicexchange.com. Should a superior offering market come to market, this could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. We are a developing company with limited revenues from operations. MGT has incurred significant operating losses since inception and has only recently commenced generating revenues from operations. As a result, MGT has generated negative cash flows from operations and has an accumulated deficit at December 31, 2008. MGT is operating in a developing industry based on new technology and its primary source of funds to date has been through the issuance of securities and borrowed funds. There can be no assurance that management’s efforts will be successful or that the products MGT develops and markets will be accepted by consumers. If our products are ultimately unsuccessful in the market, this could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Our current corporate structure may place us in an unfavourable market position vis-à-vis our competitors. MGT’s corporate structure may make it more difficult or costly to take certain actions. MGT conducts its business through: (a) Medicsight, a UK public company which is 55% owned by the Company, and through Medicsight’s subsidiaries in the United Kingdom, the United States, Japan and Gibraltar and; (b) the Medicexchange subsidiaries, in which MGT’s holdings range between 75% and 100%. Although MGT, Medicsight and Medicexchange share some directors and management, they are required to comply with corporate governance and other laws and rules applicable to public companies in the United Kingdom and the United States. Should MGT propose to take any action, such as a transfer or allocation of assets or liabilities between MGT and its subsidiaries, MGT would have to take into consideration the potentially conflicting interests of MGT’s stockholders and the minority stockholders. This may deter MGT from taking such actions that might otherwise be in the best interest of MGT or cause MGT to incur additional costs in taking such actions. The subsidiary companies would not be able to pay dividends or make other distributions of profits or assets to MGT without making pro-rata payments or distributions to the respective minority stockholders. Although neither the subsidiary companies nor MGT has plans to pay dividends or make distributions to its shareholders, MGT’s corporate structure may deter its subsidiaries from doing so in the future. If at any point we are ultimately unable to resolve any of these conflicts, this could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. The protection of our intellectual property may be uncertain, and we may face possible claims of others. Although we have received patents and have filed patent applications with respect to certain aspects of our technology, we generally do not rely on patent protection with respect to our products and technologies. Instead, we rely primarily on a combination of trade secret and copyright law, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements and other protective measures to protect 9 Table of Contents intellectual property rights pertaining to our products and technologies. Such measures may not provide meaningful protection of our trade secrets, know-how or other intellectual property in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure. Others may independently develop similar technologies or duplicate our technologies. In addition, to the extent that we apply for any patents, such applications may not result in issued patents or, if issued, such patents may not be valid or of value. Third parties could, in the future, assert infringement or misappropriation claims against us with respect to our current or future products and technologies, or we may need to assert claims of infringement against third parties. Any infringement or misappropriation claim by us or against us could place significant strain on our financial resources, divert management’s attention from our business and harm our reputation. The costs of prosecuting or defending an intellectual property claim could be substantial and could adversely affect our business, even if we are ultimately successful in prosecuting or defending any such claims. If our products or technologies are found to infringe the rights of a third party, we could be required to pay significant damages or license fees or cease production, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If a claim is brought against us, or we ultimately prove unsuccessful on the claims on our merits, this could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. We may fail to attract and retain qualified personnel. We expect to rapidly expand our operations and grow our sales, research and development and administrative operations. This expansion is expected to place a significant strain on our management and will require hiring a significant number of qualified personnel. Accordingly, recruiting and retaining such personnel in the future will be critical to our success. There is intense competition from other companies, research and academic institutions, government entities and other organizations for qualified personnel in the areas of our activities. If we fail to identify, attract, retain and motivate these highly skilled personnel, we may be unable to continue our marketing and development activities, and this could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. If we do not effectively manage changes in our business, these changes could place a significant strain on our management and operations. Our ability to grow successfully requires an effective planning and management process. The expansion and growth of our business could place a significant strain on our management systems, infrastructure and other resources. To manage our growth successfully, we must continue to improve and expand our systems and infrastructure in a timely and efficient manner. Our controls, systems, procedures and resources may not be adequate to support a changing and growing company. If our management fails to respond effectively to changes and growth in our business, including acquisitions, this could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. We face risks arising from foreign currency exchange. As MGT’s main operating currency is UK sterling and its financial statements are reported in US Dollars, MGT’s assets and liabilities and its results of operations are affected by movements in the $:£ exchange rate. Should there be large or unexpected fluctuations in the $:£ exchange rate, this could have a material effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. The Company currently does not engage in hedging activities to minimize the effect of adverse movements in the exchange rate. We may not be able to quickly realize our investments at the value at which we have recorded them. MGT holds a number of investments held at both at market value and at cost. There is a risk that we may not be able to swiftly realize these investments at the fair value or cost at which they are recorded in the financial statements. If we are unable to quickly realize these investments at prices we 10 Table of Contents believe to be fair, this could have a material effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. General market risks We may not be able to access credit. We face the risk that we may not be able to access credit, either from lenders or suppliers, or have facilities reduced or terminated. Failure to access credit from any of these sources could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Recent global economic trends could adversely affect our business, liquidity and financial results. Recent global economic conditions, including disruption of financial markets, could adversely affect us, primarily through limiting our access to capital and disrupting our clients’ businesses. In addition, continuation or worsening of general market conditions in economies important to our businesses may adversely affect our clients’ level of spending and ability to obtain financing, leading to us being unable to generate the levels of sales that we require. Current and continued disruption of financial markets could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. We may not be able to maintain effective internal controls. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal accounting controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could cause us to face regulatory action and also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, either of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. 11 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 