Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors Commodity Price Levels May Affect Demand for Our Products Demand for many of our products and the profitability of our operations depend primarily on the level of worldwide oil and gas exploration activity. Prevailing oil and gas prices and market expectations regarding potential changes in such prices significantly affect the level of worldwide oil and gas exploration activity. During periods of improved energy commodity prices, the capital spending budgets of oil and natural gas operators tend to expand, which results in increased demand for our products. Conversely, in periods when these energy commodity prices deteriorate, capital spending budgets of oil and natural gas operators tend to contract and the demand for our products generally weakens. Historically, the markets for oil and gas have been volatile and are subject to wide fluctuation in response to changes in the supply of and demand for oil and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. These factors include the level of consumer demand, supplies of oil and natural gas, regional and international economic conditions, weather conditions, domestic and foreign governmental regulations (including those related to climate change), price and availability of alternative fuels, political conditions, instability and hostilities in the Middle East and other significant oil-producing regions, increases and decreases in foreign supply of oil and gas, the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures, and the ability of OPEC to set and maintain production levels and prices of foreign imports. Continued effects of the recent U.S. economic recession, uncertainty in the European markets and slowing economic growth in China could lead to a decline in demand for crude oil and natural gas. Further slowdowns in economic activity would likely reduce worldwide demand for energy and result in an extended period of lower crude oil and natural gas prices. Any unexpected material changes in oil and gas prices or other market trends that adversely impact seismic exploration activity would likely affect the demand for our products and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and liquidity. Our New Products May Not Achieve Market Acceptance Our outlook and assumptions are based on various macro-economic factors and internal assessments, and actual market conditions could vary materially from those assumed. In recent years, we have incurred significant expenditures to fund our research and development efforts, and we intend to continue those expenditures in the 7 Index to Financial Statements future. However, research and development is by its nature speculative, and we cannot assure you that these expenditures will result in the development of new products or services or that any new products and services we have developed recently or may develop in the future will be commercially marketable or profitable to us. In particular, we have incurred substantial expenditures to develop our wireless nodal seismic data acquisition systems, as well as other seismic products for reservoir characterization applications. In addition, we try to use some of our capabilities, particularly our cable manufacturing capabilities, to supply products to new markets. Further, we have incurred substantial expense and expended significant effort to develop our thermal solutions products. We cannot assure you that we will realize our expectations regarding acceptance of and revenues generated by our new products and services in existing or new markets. We May Experience Fluctuations in Quarterly Results of Operations Historically, the rate of new orders for our products has varied substantially from quarter to quarter. Moreover, we typically operate, and expect to continue to operate, on the basis of orders in-hand for our products before we commence substantial manufacturing “runs.” The short-term nature of our order backlog for most products generally does not allow us to predict with any accuracy demand for our products more than approximately three months in advance. Thus, our ability to replenish orders and the completion of orders, particularly large orders for deepwater reservoir characterization projects, can significantly impact our operating results and cash flow for any quarter, and results of operations for any one quarter may not be indicative of results of operations for future quarters. These periodic fluctuations in our operating results could adversely affect our stock price. Our Credit Risk Could Increase if Our Customers Face Difficult Economic Circumstances We believe that our allowances for bad debts are adequate in light of known circumstances. However, we cannot assure you that additional amounts attributable to uncollectible receivables and bad debt write-offs will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. Many of our seismic customers are not well capitalized and as a result cannot always pay our invoices when due. We have in the past incurred write-offs in our accounts receivable due to customer credit problems. We have found it necessary from time to time to extend trade credit, including on promissory notes, to long-term customers and others where some risks of non-payment exist. With the recent global financial crisis and tight commercial credit availability, some of our customers relying on credit markets as the source of funds for their capital spending may experience significant liquidity difficulties, which increase those credit risks. An increase in the level of bad debts and any deterioration in our credit risk could adversely affect the price of our stock. In addition, we rent equipment to our customers that can be utilized in various countries around the world. If our rental customers experienced financial difficulties, it could be difficult or impossible to retrieve our rental equipment from foreign countries. Our industry is characterized by rapid technological development and product obsolescence Our instruments and equipment in both of our business segments are constantly undergoing rapid technological improvement. Our future success depends on our ability to continue to: • improve our existing product lines, • address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers, • maintain a reputation for technological leadership, • maintain market acceptance of our products, • anticipate changes in technology and industry standards, • respond to technological developments on a timely basis, and • develop new markets for our products and capabilities. 8 Index to Financial Statements Current competitors or new market entrants may develop new technologies, products or standards that could render our products obsolete. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in developing and marketing, on a timely and cost effective basis, product enhancements or new products that respond to technological developments, that are accepted in the marketplace or that comply with new industry standards. Additionally, in anticipation of customer product orders, from time to time we acquire substantial quantities of inventories, which if not sold or integrated into products within a reasonable period of time, could become obsolete. We would be required to impair the value of such inventories on our balance sheet. We Operate in Highly Competitive Markets The markets for most of our products are highly competitive. Many of our existing and potential competitors have substantially greater marketing, financial and technical resources than we do. Some competitors currently offer a broader range of instruments and equipment for sale than we do and may offer financing arrangements to customers on terms that we may not be able to match. In addition, new competitors may enter the market and competition could intensify. As to our thermal solutions products, we compete with other printing solutions, including inkjet and laser printing technologies, many of which are provided by large companies with significant resources. We cannot assure you that sales of our products will continue at current volumes or prices if current competitors or new market entrants introduce new products with better features, performance, price or other characteristics than our products. Competitive pressures or other factors may also result in significant price competition that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We Have a Limited Market for Our Seismic Products In our seismic business segment, we market our traditional products to seismic service contractors and to large, independent and government-owned oil and gas companies. We estimate that, based on published industry sources, fewer than 50 seismic contracting companies are currently operating worldwide (excluding those operating in the Russian Federation and the former Soviet Union, India, the People’s Republic of China and certain Eastern European countries, where seismic data acquisition activity is difficult to verify). We estimate that fewer than 20 seismic contractors are engaged in marine seismic exploration. Due to these market factors, a relatively small number of customers, some of whom are experiencing financial difficulties, have accounted for most of our sales. From time to time these seismic contractors have sought to vertically integrate and acquire our competitors, which has influenced their supplier decisions before and after such transactions. In addition, consolidation among our customers may further concentrate our business to a limited number of customers and expose us to increased risks related to dependence on a small number of customers. The loss of a small number of these customers could materially and adversely impact sales of our seismic products. We Cannot Be Certain of the Effectiveness of Patent Protection We hold and from time to time apply for certain patents relating to some of our seismic data acquisition and other products. We also own several patents which relate to the development of dry thermal film. We cannot assure you that our patents will prove enforceable or free of challenge, that any patents will be issued for which we have applied or that competitors will not develop functionally similar technology outside the protection of any patents we have or may obtain. Our Foreign Subsidiaries and Foreign Marketing Efforts Face Additional Risks and Difficulties Based on customer billing data, net sales outside the United States accounted for approximately 47% of our net sales during fiscal year 2012; however, we believe the percentage of sales outside the United States is much higher as many of our products are first delivered to a domestic location and ultimately shipped to a foreign location. We again expect net sales outside of the United States to represent a substantial portion of our net sales for fiscal year 2013 and subsequent years. 9 Index to Financial Statements Foreign sales are subject to special risks inherent in doing business outside of the United States, including the risk of war, terrorist activities, civil disturbances, embargo and government activities and foreign attitudes about conducting business activities with the United States, restrictions of the movement and exchange of funds, inhibitions of our ability to collect accounts receivable, international sanctions, expropriation and nationalization of our assets or those of our customers, currency fluctuations, devaluations and conversion restrictions, confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies and governmental actions that may result in the deprivation of our contractual rights, all of which may disrupt markets or our operations. A portion of our manufacturing is conducted through our subsidiary Geospace Technologies Eurasia, which is based in the Russian Federation. Our business could be directly affected by political and economic conditions in the Russian Federation. Boycotts, protests, governmental sanctions and other actions in the region could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. The risk of doing business in the Russian Federation and other economically or politically volatile areas could adversely affect our operations and earnings. Foreign sales are also generally subject to the risk of compliance with additional laws, including tariff regulations and import and export restrictions. Sales in certain foreign countries require prior U.S. government approval in the form of an export license. We cannot assure you that we will not experience difficulties in connection with future foreign sales. Also due to foreign laws and restrictions, should we experience substantial growth in certain foreign markets, for example in the Russian Federation, we may not be able to transfer cash balances to the United States to assist with debt servicing or other obligations. Unfavorable Currency Exchange Rate Fluctuations Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations Substantially all of our sales from the United States are made in U.S. dollars, though from time to time we may make sales in foreign currencies. As a result, we may be subject to foreign currency fluctuations on our sales. The reporting currency for our financial statements is the U.S. dollar. However, the assets, liabilities, revenues and costs of our Russian, Canadian and United Kingdom subsidiaries are denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars. To prepare our consolidated financial statements, we must translate those assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars at then-applicable exchange rates. Consequently, increases and decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar versus these other currencies will affect the amount of these items in our consolidated financial statements, even if their value has not changed in their original currency. These translations could result in significant changes to our results of operations from period to period. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012, approximately 13.4% of our consolidated revenues related to the operations of our foreign subsidiaries. We Have a Relatively Small Public Float, and Our Stock Price May be Volatile In October 2012, we implemented a 2-for-1 split of our common stock effected in the legal form of a stock dividend. Other than the disclosure of the authorized number of shares of our common stock, we have adjusted all share and per-share disclosures for all periods presented in our consolidated financial statements to give effect to the stock split. Despite our recent 2-for-1 stock split, at September 30, 2012, we have approximately 12.0 million shares outstanding held by non-affiliates. This small float results in a relatively illiquid market for our common stock. Our daily trading volume for the year ended September 30, 2012 averaged approximately 114,000 shares. Our small float and daily trading volumes have in the past caused, and may in the future result in, significant volatility in our stock price. We Rely on a Key Supplier for a Significant Portion of Our Dry Thermal Film While we currently manufacture dry thermal film, we also purchase a large quantity of dry thermal film from a European manufacturer through its distributor in the United Kingdom. Except for the film produced by us and sold to us by this manufacturer/distributor, we know of no other source for dry thermal film that performs well in our thermal imaging equipment. If we are unable to economically manufacture dry thermal film internally or the European manufacturer/distributor we rely on were to discontinue producing dry thermal film, were to 10 Index to Financial Statements become unwilling to contract with us on competitive terms or were unable to supply dry thermal film in sufficient quantities to meet our requirements, our ability to compete in the thermal imaging marketplace could be impaired, which could adversely affect our financial performance. Our Success Depends Upon a Limited Number of Key Personnel Our success depends on attracting and retaining highly skilled professionals. A number of our employees are highly skilled engineers and other professionals. In addition, our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of the members of our senior management. If we fail to continue to attract and retain such professionals, our ability to compete in the industry could be adversely affected. A General Downturn in the Economy in Future Periods May Adversely Affect Our Business Continued effects of the recent downturn in the U.S. economy, uncertainty in the European markets and slowing growth in China and any other economic slowdown in future periods, could adversely affect our business in ways that we cannot predict. During times of economic slowdown, our customers may reduce their capital expenditures and defer or cancel pending projects. Such developments occur even among customers that are not experiencing financial difficulties. Any economic downturn may adversely affect the demand for oil and gas generally or cause volatility in oil and gas commodity prices and, therefore, adversely affect the demand for our services to the oil and gas industry and related service and equipment. It could also adversely affect the demand for consumer products, which could in turn adversely affect our thermal solutions business. To the extent these factors adversely affect other seismic companies in the industry, there could be an oversupply of products and services and downward pressure on pricing for seismic products and services, which could adversely affect us. Additionally, bankruptcies or financial difficulties among our customers could reduce our cash flows and adversely impact our liquidity and profitability. See “We Have a Limited Market for Our Seismic Products,” above. We Have a Minimal Disaster Recovery Program at the Pinemont Facility Due to its proximity to the Texas Gulf Coast, our Pinemont facility is annually subject to the threat of hurricanes, and the aftermath that follows. Hurricanes may cause, among other types of damage, the loss of electrical power for extended periods of time. If we lost electrical power at the Pinemont facility, or if a fire or other natural disaster occurred, we would be unable to continue our manufacturing operations during the power outage because we do not own a generator or any other back-up power source large enough to provide for our manufacturing power consumption needs. We have a back-up generator to provide power for our information technology operations. Although we store our back-up data offsite, we do not maintain an alternative facility to run our information technology operations. Additionally, we do not have an alternative manufacturing or operating location in the United States. A significant disruption in our manufacturing and information technology operations could materially and adversely affect our business operations during an extended period of a power outage, fire or other natural disaster. The Credit Agreement Imposes Restrictions on Our Business We and several of our subsidiaries are parties to a credit agreement with a bank. The credit agreement contains covenants and requires maintenance of certain financial ratios and tests, which impose restrictions on our business and on the business of our guarantor-subsidiaries. We currently believe that the most restrictive covenant in the credit agreement is the consolidated cash flow coverage ratio. Our ability to comply with these restrictions may be affected by events beyond our control, including, but not limited to, prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions and continuing declines in our sales of products. The breach of any of these covenants or restrictions, as well as any failure to make a payment of interest or principal when due, could result in a default under the credit agreement. Such a default would permit our lender to declare amounts borrowed from it to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, and the ability to borrow under the 11 Index to Financial Statements credit agreement could be terminated. If we are unable to repay debt to our lender, the lender could proceed against the collateral securing that debt. While we intend to seek alternative sources of cash in such a situation, there is no guarantee that any alternative cash source would be available, or would be available on terms favorable to us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 