Risk Factors We cannot assure you that the Company will be successful in commercializing the Medicsight CAD products or the MedicExchange portal, or if the products or the portal are commercialized, that they will be profitable to the Company. We face obstacles in commercializing the Medicsight CAD products and the MedicExchange portal and in generating operating revenues as detailed below. The Company does not believe that there is currently any comparable system that is competitive with the Medicsight CAD products. There are computer-aided diagnostic systems that operate in the field, but, in our view, such other systems are more dependent than ours on human resources to carry out the analysis. We are not aware of other systems in the field that have the automated capability of our products. The Company has had only a limited operating history and no revenues from its continuing operations upon which an evaluation of its prospects can be made. The Company’s prospects must be considered keeping in mind the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered in the establishment of a new business in constantly changing industry. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to achieve profitable operations in the foreseeable future or at all. The Company has identified a number of specific risk areas that may affect the Company’s operations and results in the future: Technical Risks. The Medicsight CAD system may not deliver the levels of accuracy and reliability needed, or the development of such accuracy and reliability may be delayed. Market Risks. The market for the Medicsight CAD products and MedicExchange may be slower to develop or smaller than estimated or it may be more difficult to build the market than anticipated. The medical community may resist the Medicsight CAD and MedicExchange products or be slower to accept them than we expect. Revenues from Medicsight CAD and MedicExchange may be delayed or costs may be higher than expected which may result in the Company requiring additional funding. Regulatory Risks. The Medicsight CAD system is subject to regulatory requirements in the United States Europe, Japan, China and our other targeted markets. Necessary regulatory approvals may not be obtained or may be delayed. We may incur substantial additional cost in obtaining regulatory approvals for our products in our targeted markets. Competitive Risks. There are a number of groups and organizations, such as software companies in the medical imaging field, scanner manufacturers, screening companies and other healthcare providers that may develop a competitive offering to the Medicsight CAD and MedicExchange. In addition these competitors may have significantly greater resources than the Company. We cannot make any assurance that they will not attempt to develop such offerings, that they will not be successful in developing such offerings or that any offerings they do develop will not have a competitive edge over Medicsight CAD and MedicExchange. Financial Risk. The Company has incurred significant operating losses since inception and has generated no revenues from continuing operations. As a result, the Company has generated negative cash flows from operations and has an accumulated deficit at December 31, 2005. The Company is operating in a developing industry based on new technology and its primary source of funds to date has been through the issuance of securities and borrowed funds. The Company is currently seeking additional funding and is actively developing the technology in order to bring it to market. While the Company is optimistic and believes appropriate actions are being taken, there can be no assurance that management’s efforts will be successful or that the products the Company develops and markets will be accepted by consumers. Corporate Structure. The Company’s corporate structure may make it more difficult or costly to take certain actions. The Company conducts substantially all its business through MS-PLC, a U.K. public company which is 81.8% owned by the Company, and through MS-PLC’s subsidiaries in the United Kingdom and the United States and through MDX, which is 90% owned by the Company. Although the Company and MS-PLC share directors and management, they are required to comply with corporate governance and other laws and 8 rules applicable to public companies in the United Kingdom and the United States. Should the Company propose to take any action, such as a transfer or allocation of assets or liabilities between the Company and MS-PLC, the Company would have to take into consideration the potentially conflicting interests of the Company’s stockholders and the minority stockholders of MS-PLC. This may deter the Company from taking such actions that might otherwise be in the best interest of the Company or cause the Company to incur additional costs in taking such actions. MS-PLC would not be able to pay dividends or make other distributions of profits or assets to the Company without making pro rata payments or distributions to the minority stockholders of MS-PLC. Although neither MS-PLC nor the Company has plans to pay dividends or make distributions to its shareholders, the Company’s corporate structure may deter MS-PLC and the Company from doing so in the future. This risk will also apply to MDX as it begins its operations this year as the Company owns 90% of MDX’s equity. Foreign Exchange Risks. As the Company’s operating currency is UK sterling (£) and its financial statements are reported in US Dollars, the Company’s assets and liabilities and its results of operations are affected by movements in the $: £ exchange rate. Other Risks. The Company’s ability to deliver its software could be hindered by risks such as the loss of key personnel or the patents and trademarks being successfully challenged or credit facilities being reduced or terminated by lenders. Employees As of March 27, 2006, the Company and its subsidiaries had 59 employees, all of whom are full-time employees. Our employees are not part of a union. We believe that we have an excellent relationship with our employees. Patents and Trademarks Protection of our proprietary technology and our rights over that technology, from copy or unchallenged and improper use, is essential to our future success. Any challenges to, or disputes concerning, our core technology may result in great expense to us, delays in bringing products to market and disruption of our focus on our core activities. They may also result in loss of rights over our technology or the right to operate in particular markets due to adverse legal decisions against us. The Company has filed patent applications in the United Kingdom, the United States, the European Patent Office and under the International Patent Cooperation Treaty (which currently has 128 member countries) covering our core technologies and their applications. We have recently filed new patent applications covering technology of both Medicsight CAD and MedicExchange and intend to continue filing new applications in the future. Although prior art searches have been carried out, we cannot provide assurance that any or all of these patents will be granted or that they will not be challenged, or that rights granted to us would actually provide us with advantage over our competitors. The Company actively reviews third party patents but is not currently aware of any that our products will infringe. We have filed applications to register “Medicsight”TM, “Lifesyne”TM , “Medicsight Colon Screen”TM, “Medicsight Heart Screen”TM, “Medicsight Lung Screen”TM, “Colon CAR”™, “Lung CAR”™, “Computer Assisted Reader” TM and “Medicsight ImageView” TM as trademarks in the United Kingdom, the European Community and the United States. These trademarks are important to the corporate identity in connection with Medicsight CAD. Failure to register appropriate patents, copyrights or trademarks in any jurisdiction may impede our ability to create brand awareness in our products, result in expenses in pursuing our rights with respect to our intellectual property, or result in lost revenues due to intellectual property disputes. Where we may be required to purchase licenses from sellers with prior rights in any country, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so at a commercially acceptable cost. 9 Research and Development Under United States generally accepted accounting principles, costs incurred in connection with the development of software products that are intended for sale are accounted for in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 86, “Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software to be Sold, Leased, or Otherwise Marketed”. Costs incurred prior to technological feasibility being established for the product are expensed as incurred. Technological feasibility is established upon completion of a detailed program design or, in its absence, completion of a working model. Thereafter, all software production costs can be capitalized and subsequently reported at the lower of unamortized cost or net realizable value. Capitalized costs are amortized based on current and future revenue for each product with an annual minimum equal to the straight-line amortization over the remaining estimated economic life of the product. Amortization commences when the product is available for general release to customers. The Company concluded that capitalizing such expenditures on completion of a working model was inappropriate because the Company did not incur any material software production costs and therefore has decided to expense all research and development costs. The Company’s research and development costs are comprised of staff and consultancy costs expensed on the Medicsight CAD system. During 2005, 2004 and 2003 the Company expended $2,363,000, $2,972,000 and $2,498,000 respectively for research and development expenses for its products. We cannot predict the amount of additional expenditures that will be necessary prior to achieving commercialization of our products. Major Customers In 2005 the Company’s gross revenues from operations were derived solely from the Company’s discontinued scanning operations. Governmental Regulation Medicsight CAD has been designed to analyze digital data from medical scanners, such as CT, MRI and CAT scans, and provides improved analysis to enable the clinician to identify areas of possible abnormality. Medicsight CAD will be subject to governmental regulation in the United Kingdom, Europe and the United States. We are not currently certain of the level of regulation that will be applied to Medicsight CAD in any specific jurisdiction. The level of governmental regulation in the jurisdictions in which we engage, or expect to engage, in business may vary. Any such regulation could delay the commercial introduction of Medicsight CAD and could significantly increase our costs of operations. General Our corporate address is 46 Berkeley Square, London W1J 5AT, United Kingdom. Our telephone number is +44-20-7598-4070. Our web address is www.medicsight.com. Information on our website is not deemed to be a part of this Annual Report. ITEM 