Risk Factors.” President Fujimori resigned in 2000 in favor of a transitory government due to an outbreak of corruption scandals. President Toledo then assumed the presidency in 2001 after a period of political turmoil, facing high unemployment and underemployment, an economic recession and social need. In 2006, Alan García was elected for a five year-term, during which remained the main outlines of the economic model, promoting private investment to stimulate the economy. Presidential elections were initially held in Peru on April 10, 2011 and a second round of elections was held on June 5, 2011. The winner of the elections was Ollanta Humala, who defeated Keiko Fujimori. While President Humala’s initial proposals as a candidate were designed to radically change the economic model that was already in effect, his signing of a "road map", which promised to be moderate, was important for his electoral victory. Among his first acts as president-elect were the ratification of the Central Bank’s president and the appointment of Luis Castilla, who served as Deputy Minister under the previous government, as Minister of Finance. Both of these appointees contributed to recover the investment climate that deteriorated during presidential campaigns period. However, the recovery has been affected by perceived risks abroad, where the Eurozone is under pressure. Despite the uncertainty generated during the first half of 2011 (due to the radical changes proposed by Humala) and the global economic slowdown in the second half of 2011, the Peruvian economy managed to close the year with an economic growth of 6.9%, focused mainly on non-primary sectors highly linked with domestic demand. 49 Despite the economic strides achieved since 1990 and the high rate at which Peruvian economy has expanded in the last decade, poverty remains a persistent problem, with almost 40% of the population living below the poverty line, which the World Bank defines as monthly income of less than US$60 per capita, adjusted to reflect differences in purchasing power. A significant number of Peruvians live on an income of less than US$30 per capita per month. (ii)Peruvian Economy During his second term (2006-2011), President Alan Garcia continued the market-oriented policies that started in the 1990s with President Fujimori’s structural reforms. Nevertheless, some interventionist measures were passed due to surge of populist initiatives from Congress and social pressures from unions and regional movements. In 2011, presidential elections outcome (Ollanta Humala’s victory) anticipated a shift in government political orientation, which had a negative impact on business confidence and growth perspectives. Although initial concerns on Humala’s government have been mitigated in part by cabinet appointments and political arrangements aimed to reassure investor’s confidence and reaffirm economy’s direction, political risks have not disappeared entirely. In addition to political changes and the application of sound macroeconomic policies, the positive external outlook allowed Peru to grow at an average of 5.7% in the last decade, reaching a positive growth rate even during the global financial crisis in 2009. In that year, within a global comparison, Peru was among the countries with the highest GDP-growth rates: 0.9% in a year when global production decreased 1.1%. In the following years of recovery Peru continued outperforming global economy and even developed regions, growing 8.8% in 2010 and 6.9% in 2011. Peruvian economy went through moderation in 2011, because of global turmoil arising from debt crisis in the Eurozone, weaker growth in developed countries, and local factors like political uncertainty associated to presidential elections. The combined effect of these events resulted in slowdown in private investment growth rates (11.0% after 22.1% in 2010). Nevertheless, consumption showed resilience, maintaining its dynamism (6.0% after 6.5% in 2010), as negative contribution of foreign sector reflected stronger growth in imports (7.0%) than exports (4.6%). During 2007, the Free Trade Agreement (FTA) with the United States was signed and the trade deal was put into effect on February 1, 2009, concluding a long process of trade negotiations and goodwill. The FTA made permanent the special access to the U.S. market enjoyed under the Andean Trade Promotion and Drug Eradication Act. The current trade between these countries is around US$13 billion annually (15.7% of total trade). The FTA is expected to encourage higher export growth and diversification, as well as accelerate reforms that will further enhance the investment climate in Peru, which is already benefiting from high flows of foreign direct investment. Progress was made toward reaching more trade agreements with Peru’s most important trade partners like China (the FTA started in march 2010), which currently stands as the first destiny of Peruvian exports, mainly commodities and primary goods. In 2011, trade between both countries reached US$13.2 billion (16.1% of total trade). Also, Peru concluded trade agreement negotiations with European Union, Japan and Mexico, and all of them are supposed to start in the first half of 2012. It is expected that after solving the uncertainty about global economy, these agreements will help boost growth in the export sector, which since 2008 is relatively flat compared to the buoyancy registered in domestic demand. Peru’s trade surplus in 2011 was US$9.3 billion, surpassing the 2010 surplus of US$6.7 billion. This trade surplus was the result of a sizeable increase in exports, which reached approximately US$46.3 billion, a historic record, though imports also grew as the domestic economy expanded at a more moderate pace. Exports in 2011 increased 30.1%, based mostly on higher commodity prices, while imports increased 28.3%, due to growth in domestic demand. Peru has had a history of high and persistent current account deficits. Nevertheless, a process of gradual correction of external imbalances started in recent years. Between 2007 and 2011, Peru’s current account balance reached an average deficit of US$2.1 billion, which is equivalent to 1.3% of GDP. After a brief interruption in 2008, when the deficit again reached high levels (US$5.3 billion, or 4.2% of GDP), and a small surplus in 2009 (0.2 % of GDP) due to a decrease in imports and in investment income (in a context of global slowdown), the correction process took place again. In 2011, Peru again recorded a deficit, this time in the amount of US$4.7 billion (2.5% of GDP) due to a trade deficit that was financed by long-term capital inflows. 50 Peru’s financial account had an average surplus of US$8.1 billion between 2007 and 2011, reflecting higher foreign direct investment and long-term loans, which reflects the improvement on investor’s perception of Peru’s economic perspective. The exception was the decrease of surplus in 2009 (US$1.5 billion), due to lower capital inflows in a context of global uncertainty, mainly in the first half of the year, but it was enough to reverse the current account deficit. In 2010 and 2011, recovery in capital inflows gradually restored high financial account surpluses, when investors adjusted their risk appetite and reassessed risks in emerging countries, which proved to have solid foundations during the crisis. Nevertheless, stress episodes associated with the Eurozone fiscal crisis, including the bailouts of Ireland and Portugal in 2010 and 2011, respectively, and Greece’s recent debt restructuring negotiations during the second half of 2011, continue to have negative effects on investment inflows into Peru. Inflation in Peru, as measured by the Lima consumer price index, was 3.5% on average over the past five years. After reducing the Peruvian Central Bank's target of 2.5% to 2.0%, with a +/-1% range, inflation was above the target range in 2007 and 2008, registering 3.93% and 6.65% respectively influenced by higher international commodity prices. As of December 31, 2010 the inflation rate was 2.1%, compared to a 0.25% inflation rate at the end of 2009. Inflation in 2011 was 4.7%, significantly above the Central Bank’s inflation range, driven by external supply shocks (higher commodity prices) as well as local supply shocks (less local food supply). The exchange rate for Nuevos Soles in Peru has appreciated 15.6% over the past five years, from S /. 3.20 per US$1.00 on December 31, 2006 to S /. 2.696 per US$ 1.00 on December 31, 2011. In the past two years, the Nuevo Sol has posted gains of 2.8% in 2010 and 3.9% in 2011. The appreciation of the Nuevo Sol was substantially due to capital inflows to emerging economies in a volatile market environment due to economic and debt problems in the EU. In 2011, the Nuevo Sol strengthened overall, but underwent periods of depreciation following the political uncertainty associated with the presidential elections and uncertainty in international markets. The sound policy framework put in place in recent years and the increase in international reserves have contributed to significantly reduce Peru’s economic vulnerabilities and poverty (even though poverty still affects to over 30% of the population) and enhance its business environment. Peru’s strong fiscal surpluses in recent years, the recent moderate deficit due to countercyclical policies notwithstanding, have also supported a significant reduction in public debt and improved maturity structure. In the current uncertain global outlook, these are important fiscal buffers. A sound monetary policy, well-established in a framework that targets inflation, has also been instrumental in helping to maintain macroeconomic stability and reduce dollarization. Structural reforms have reduced Peru’s fiscal and financial vulnerabilities. Free trade agreements and the search of new markets to open new trade destinations, lower informality, and improvement in the business climate have helped improve Peru’s long-term growth prospects, which are reflected in a higher investment and a higher potential growth. These achievements are believed to have placed Peru in a strong position to face any future deterioration in external conditions, should that be the case. Building on Peru’s strong fundamentals, including a resilient financial system, several measures have been implemented by the authorities that will help to limit spillovers, preserve adequate liquidity conditions in the domestic markets, and bolster domestic confidence. The Peruvian financial system has proven to be strong, despite the impact of the global financial crisis. Credit, which averaged a 31.8% growth in 2007 and 2008, lost momentum, closing 2009 with only a 9.5% growth. The economic recovery in Peru has increased demand for banking credit, which, in 2010, grew by 18.1% and 22.9% in 2011. Peruvian authorities have been implementing reforms to strengthen the financial system and improve the country’s international liquidity position compared with that observed during the crisis. Under an adverse scenario, the Peruvian Central Bank could use its high availability of foreign reserves, which have risen from 25.8% of GDP in December 2007 to approximately 28.6% in December 2011 and other mechanisms to provide necessary liquidity to the domestic financial system. Also, the increase in the capital ratio of the financial system from 11.7% in December, 2007 to 13.4% in September, 2011 reflects that solvency has improved. The near term domestic economic outlook continues to appear to be favorable, despite lingering uncertainty about the global economy. The pace of economic growth is expected to be around 5.5% in 2012, reflecting a weaker global economic growth and a moderation in domestic demand. Inflation is expected to remain around the 2% (+/- 1%) target range. 51 The main risks to the Peruvian economy appear to be external and largely related to the results of the continued economic recovery in developed countries. Peru’s current fiscal position, including the 2011 surplus, the amount of funds accumulated by the public sector (US.$ 5.6 billion as of December 31, 2011), and the fact that the country is now rated investment grade (BBB according to S&P and Fitch, Baa3 according to Moody's but with a positive outlook) is considered to to have strengthened Peru’s ability to withstand future crises Peru’s medium-term prospects are considered to be favorable provided that the country continues to follow prudent macroeconomic policies and deal with longstanding structural challenges. (10)The Peruvian Financial System As our activities are conducted primarily through banking and insurance subsidiaries operating in Peru, a summary of the Peruvian financial system is set forth below. (i)General On December 31, 2011, the Peruvian financial system consisted of the following principal participants: the Central Bank, the SBS, 15 banking institutions (not including Banco de la Nación, a Peruvian state-owned bank), 10 finance companies, and 2 leasing companies. In addition, Peru has various mutual mortgage associations, municipal and rural savings and credit associations, municipal public credit associations and savings and credit cooperatives, which totaled 34 entities as of December 31, 2011. Law 26702 regulates Peruvian financial and insurance companies. In general, it provides for tighter loan loss reserve standards, brings asset risk weighting in line with Basel Committee on Banking Regulations and Supervisory Practices of International Settlements (or the Basel Accord) guidelines, broadens supervision of financial institutions by the SBS to include holding companies, and includes specific treatment of a series of recently developed products in the capital markets and derivatives areas. (ii)Central Bank The Central Reserve Bank (or the Central Bank) was established in 1922. Pursuant to the Peruvian Constitution, its primary role is to ensure the stability of the Peruvian monetary system. The Central Bank regulates Peru’s money supply, administers international reserves, issues currency, determines Peru’s balance of payments and other monetary accounts, and furnishes information regarding the country’s financial situation. It also represents the government of Peru before the IMF and the Latin American Reserve Fund (a financial institution whose purpose is to provide balance of payments assistance to its member countries by granting credits or guaranteeing loans to third parties). The highest decision-making authority within the Central Bank is its seven-member board of directors. Each director serves a five-year term. Of the seven directors, four are selected by the executive branch and three are selected by the Congress. The Chairman of the Central Bank is one of the executive branch nominees but must be approved by Peru’s Congress. The Central Bank’s board of directors develops and oversees monetary policy, establishes reserve requirements for entities within the financial system, and approves guidelines for the management of international reserves. All entities within the financial system are required to comply with the decisions of the Central Bank. (iii)SBS (The Superintendency of Banks, Insurance and Pension Funds) The SBS, whose authority and activities are discussed in “—(11) Supervision and Regulation,” is the regulatory authority in charge of implementing and enforcing Law 26702 and, more generally, supervising and regulating all financial, insurance and pension fund institutions in Peru. 52 In June 2008, Law 1028 and 1052 were approved modifying Law 26702 with the following objectives: (i) to strengthen and to increase competitiveness, (ii) to implement Basel II and (iii) to adapt the current regulatory framework to the Agreement of Commercial Promotion, APC, signed between Peru and the United States. The main amendments defined in Law 1028 were designed to promote the development of Peruvian capital markets by extending the range of financial services that could be offered by microfinance institutions (i.e., non-banks) without requiring SBS authorization. Law 1028 also modified the framework in which the Peruvian financial system is to be harmonized with the new international standards established by the Basel II Accord (which aims to minimize the issues regarding regulatory arbitrage). Since July 2009, Peruvian financial institutions apply the standardized method to calculate their capital requirement related to credit, market and operational risk. Also, from July 2009, the SBS started receiving applications to use Internal Models Methods for any of these three risks. Meanwhile, if an institution requires lower capital using its internal models than by using the current approach, it will have to maintain between 80% and 95% of the higher amount during the first years. Law 1052 aims to include and synchronize Law 26702 and the APC’s framework, particularly regarding insurance services. The amendments allow offering cross-border services and have simplified the process for international institutions to enter into the Peruvian market by establishing subsidiaries. (iv)Financial System Institutions Under Peruvian law, financial system institutions are classified as banks, financing companies, other non-banking institutions, specialized companies and investment banks. BCP is classified as a bank. Banks A bank is defined by Law 26702 as an enterprise whose principal business consists of (i) receiving money from the public, whether by deposits or by any other form of contract, and (ii) using such money (together with the bank’s own capital and funds obtained from other sources) to grant loans or discount documents, or in operations that are subject to market risks. Banks are permitted to carry out various types of financial operations, including the following: (i) receiving demand deposits, time deposits, savings deposits and deposits in trust; (ii) granting direct loans; (iii) discounting or advancing funds against bills of exchange, promissory notes and other credit instruments; (iv) granting mortgage loans and accepting bills of exchange in connection with the mortgage loans; (v) granting conditional and unconditional guaranties; (vi) issuing, confirming, receiving and discounting letters of credit; (vii) acquiring and discounting certificates of deposit, warehouse receipts, bills of exchange and invoices of commercial transactions; (viii) performing credit operations with local and foreign banks, as well as making deposits in those institutions; (ix) issuing and placing local currency and foreign currency bonds, as well as promissory notes and negotiable certificates of deposits; (x) issuing certificates in foreign currency and entering into foreign exchange transactions; (xi) purchasing banks and non-Peruvian institutions which conduct financial intermediation or securities exchange transactions in order to maintain an international presence; (xii) purchasing, holding and selling gold and silver as well as stocks and bonds listed on one of the Peruvian stock exchanges and issued by companies incorporated in Peru; (xiii) acting as financial agent for investments in Peru for external parties; (xiv) purchasing, holding and selling instruments evidencing public debt, whether internal or external, as well as obligations of the Central Bank; (xv) making collections, payments and transfers of funds; (xvi) receiving securities and other assets in trust and leasing safety deposit boxes; and (xvii) issuing and administering credit cards and accepting and performing trust functions. 53 In addition, banks may carry out financial leasing operations by forming separate departments or subsidiaries. Banks may also promote and direct operations in foreign commerce, underwrite initial public offerings, and provide financial advisory services apart from the administration of their clients’ investment portfolios. By forming a separate department within the bank, banks may also act as trustees in trust agreements. Law 26702 authorizes banks to operate, through their subsidiaries, warehouse companies, securities brokerage companies, and to establish and administer mutual funds. Branches of foreign banks enjoy the same rights and are subject to the same obligations as Peruvian banks. Multinational banks, with operations in various countries, may perform the same activities as Peruvian banks, although their foreign activities are not subject to Peruvian regulations. To carry out banking operations in the local market, multinational banks must maintain a certain portion of their capital in Peru, in at least the minimum amount that is required for Peruvian banks. Finance Companies Under Law 26702, finance companies are authorized to carry out the same operations as banks, with the exception of (i) issuing loans as overdrafts in checking accounts and (ii) participating in derivative operations. These operations can be carried out by finance companies only if they fulfill the requirements stated by the SBS. Other Financial Institutions The Peruvian financial system has a number of less significant entities which may provide credit, accept deposits or otherwise act as financial intermediaries on a limited basis. Leasing companies specialize in financial leasing operations where goods are leased over the term of the contract and in which one party has the option of purchasing the goods at a predetermined price. Savings and loans associations or cooperatives may accept certain types of savings deposits and provide other similar financial services. Peru also has numerous mutual housing associations, municipal savings and credit associations, savings and credit cooperatives and municipal credit bureaus. Over the past five years the entry of new participants, including foreign banks and non-bank financial institutions, has increased the level of competition in Peru. Insurance Companies Since the Peruvian insurance industry was deregulated in 1991, insurance companies have been authorized to conduct all types of operations and to enter into all forms of agreements that are needed to offer risk coverage to customers. Insurance companies may also invest in financial and non-financial assets, although they are subject to the regulations on investments and reserves established in Law 26702 and the regulations issued by the SBS. Law 26702 is the principal law governing insurance companies in Peru. The SBS is charged with the supervision and regulation of all insurance companies. The formation of an insurance company requires prior authorization of the SBS. The insurance industry has experienced consolidation in recent years with the number of companies decreasing from 19 in 1991 to 14 in 2011. (11)Supervision and Regulation (i)Credicorp Currently there are no applicable regulations under Bermuda law that are likely to materially impact our operations as they are currently structured. Under Bermuda law, there is no regulation applicable to us, as a holding company that would require that we separate the operations of our subsidiaries incorporated and existing outside Bermuda. Since our activities are conducted primarily through our subsidiaries in Peru, the Cayman Islands and Bolivia, a summary of Peruvian banking and insurance regulations and Cayman Islands banking regulations is set forth below. 54 Our common shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). We are therefore subject to regulation by the NYSE and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) as a “foreign private issuer.” We also must comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are, along with BCP, subject to certain requirements set forth in Peruvian Law 26702 (“Peruvian Banking Law” or “Law 26702”) as well as certain banking statutes issued by the Peruvian banking regulator, SBS, including SBS Resolution No. 11823-2010, enacted in September 2010 and which approved the “Regulation of the Consolidated Supervision of Financial and Mixed Conglomerates.” These regulations affect BCP and us primarily in the areas of reporting, risk control guidelines, limitations, ratios and capital requirements. Since our common shares are listed on the Lima Stock Exchange in addition to the New York Stock Exchange, we are subject to certain reporting requirements to Superintendencia del Mercado de Valores , the Peruvian securities market regulator, and the Lima Stock Exchange. See “Item 9. The Offer and Listing—(C) Markets—The Lima Stock Exchange—(ii) Market Regulation.” (ii)BCP Overview BCP’s operations are regulated by Peruvian law. The regulations for the operation of the Peruvian financial sector are stated in Law 26702. The SBS periodically issues resolutions that cause Law 26702 to be developed. See “—(10) The Peruvian Financial System.” The SBS supervises and regulates entities that Law 26702 classifies as financial institutions. These entities include commercial banks, finance companies, small business finance companies, savings and loan corporations, financial services companies such as trust companies and investment banks, and insurance companies. Financial institutions must seek the SBS’s authorization before beginning operations. BCP’s operations are supervised and regulated by the SBS and the Central Bank. Those who violate Law 26702 and its underlying regulations are subject to administrative sanctions and criminal penalties. Additionally, the SBS and the Central Bank have the authority to issue fines to financial institutions and their directors and officers if they violate the laws or regulations of Peru, or their own institutions’ bye-laws. The Superintendencia del Mercado de Valores (SMV), formerly known as CONASEV, is the Peruvian government institution in charge of (i) promoting the securities market, (ii) making sure fair competition takes place in the securities markets, (iii) supervising the management of businesses that trade in the securities markets and (iv) regulating their activities and accounting practices. BCP must inform SMV of significant events that affect its business and is required to provide financial statements to it and the Lima Stock Exchange each quarter. BCP is also regulated by SMV through Credibolsa, which is BCP’s wholly-owned brokerage house, and Credifondo, which is BCP’s wholly-owned mutual fund administration company. SMV examines Credibolsa and Credifondo on a regular basis. Under Peruvian law, banks may conduct brokerage operations and administer mutual funds but must do so through subsidiaries. However, bank employees may market the financial products of the bank’s brokerage and mutual fund subsidiaries. Banks are prohibited from issuing insurance policies, but are not prohibited from distributing insurance policies issued by insurance companies. 55 Authority of the SBS Peru’s Constitution and Law 26702 (which contains the statutory charter of the SBS) grant the SBS the authority to oversee and control banks and financial institutions (with the exception of brokerage firms, which are regulated by SMV – Superintendencia del Mercado de Valores), insurance and reinsurance companies, companies that receive deposits from the general public, pension funds private administrators (“AFPs”) and other similar entities as defined by the law. The SBS is also responsible for supervising the Central Bank to ensure that it abides by its statutory charter and bye-laws. The SBS has administrative, financial and operating autonomy. Its objectives include protecting the public interest, ensuring the financial stability of the institutions over which it has authority and punishing violators of its regulations. Its responsibilities include: (i) reviewing and approving, with the assistance of the Central Bank, the establishment and organization of subsidiaries of the institutions it regulates; (ii) overseeing mergers, dissolutions and reorganization of banks, financial institutions and insurance companies; (iii) supervising financial, insurance and related companies from which information on an individual or consolidated basis is required, through changes in ownership and management control (this supervision also applies to non-bank holding companies, such as us); (iv) reviewing the bye-laws and amendments of bye-laws of these companies; (v) issuing criteria governing the transfer of bank shares, when permitted by law, for valuation of assets and liabilities and for minimum capital requirements; and (vi) controlling the Central de Riesgos (Bank Risk Assessment Center), to which all banks are legally required to provide information regarding all businesses and individuals with whom they deal without regard to the amount of credit risk (the information provided is made available to all banks to allow them to monitor individual borrowers’ overall exposure to Peru’s banks). In addition to them, the SBS is also responsible for stating the criteria relating to the existence of financial or mixed conglomerates in Peru and their supervision. As a result of it, despite its supervision of BCP, the SBS also supervises Credicorp Ltd. on the basis that we are a financial conglomerate conducting the majority of our operations in Peru. Management of Operational Risk SBS Resolutions No. 006-2002 and 37-2008 established guidelines for operational risk management, which includes a broad range of risks and defines operational risks as those resulting from the possibility of suffering financial losses due to inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or from adverse external events. It also establishes responsibilities for developing policies and procedures to identify, measure, control and report such risks. Banks are required to adequately manage risks involved in the performance and continuity of their operations and services in order to minimize possible financial losses and reputation damage due to inadequate or non-existent policies or procedures. Credicorp, following these SBS guidelines, as well as the guidelines issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, and the advice of international consultants, has appointed a specialized team responsible for operational risk management across our organization. This team reports regularly to our risk committee, top managers and Board of Directors. In evaluating operational risks and potential consequences, we mainly assess risks related to critical processes, new products, critical suppliers, critical information assets and technological components. To support the operational risk management process we have developed a business continuity management (BCM) discipline, which involves the implementation of continuity plans for critical business processes, incident management, and training and testing. In addition, we have developed procedures to register, collect, analyze and report operational risk losses, looking forward to the implementation of advanced models for operational risk capital allocation. Lastly, we have a monitoring and reporting team, whose main objective is to follow up action plans and monitor Key Risk Indicators (KRI) and other performance metrics. We intend to be guided by the risk control standards of international financial institutions that are noted for their leadership in this field. Our overall objective is to implement an efficient and permanent monitoring system to control operational risks, while the actual management of risk control procedures is conducted by the areas that carry out critical activities. 56 Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to make certain certifications regarding our internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011. We have developed internal methods to identify and evaluate risk and controls over our critical processes to determinate how effective internal controls are over financial reporting. Capital Adequacy Requirements Capital adequacy requirements applicable to us are set forth in the Peruvian Banking Law (Law 26702), as amended, and monitored and regulated by the SBS. Law 26702 was enacted in December 1996 and amended in June 2008 through Legislative Decree 1028. The amendment became effective in July 2009 and was aimed at adapting the Peruvian Banking Law to the capital guidelines and standards established by the second Basel Accord (Basel II). Basel II standards modified the methodology to measure credit, market and operational risks to allow the use of standardized and internal model-based methods. Basel II standards also allow Peruvian financial institutions to request authorization from the SBS to implement an internal ratings-based (“IRB”) methodology. Financial institutions that receive approval from the SBS to use the IRB methodology are subject to regulatory capital floors. The amount of capital required may not be less than the percentage of capital required under an alternative methodology. First Year Second Year Third Year Basic IRB and Internal Models of Credit Risk 95% 90% 80% Advanced Models of Credit Risk and/or Operational Risk 90% 80% — Prior to June 2009, the capital requirements were based upon the guidelines established by the first Basel Accord (Basel I). Financial institutions were required to limit risk-weighted assets to 11 times their regulatory capital (“patrimonio efectivo”), which is equivalent to a minimum capital ratio of 9.09% of risk-weighted assets. Risk-weighted assets were calculated based upon five risk categories depending on the perceived risk of each asset class. Pursuant to the Basel II guidelines, financial institutions are required to hold regulatory capital (“patrimonio efectivo”) that is greater than or equal to the sum of (i) 10% of credit risk-weighted assets, and (ii) 10 times the amount required to cover market and operational risks. The new minimum capital requirements were implemented as follows. Implementation date Regulatory capital (% of total weighted assets) Total risk-weighted assets July 1st, 2009 9.5% 10.5 times the regulatory capital needed to cover market risks; plus 10.5 times regulatory capital needed to cover operational risks; plus Total amount of credit risk-weighted assets. July 1st, 2010 9.8% 10.2 times the regulatory capital needed to cover market risks; plus 10.2 times the regulatory capital needed to cover operational risks; plus Total amount of credit risk-weighted assets. July 1st, 2011 10% 10 times the regulatory capital needed to cover market risks; plus 10 times the regulatory capital needed to cover operational risks; plus Total amount of credit risk-weighted assets. 57 On November 2010, the SBS released a consultative document, which established the proposed methodologies for calculating additional capital requirements consistent with Pilar 2 of Basel II and certain aspects of Basel III. Comments on this document were due February 18, 2011. On July 20, 2011, the SBS issued SBS Resolution 8425-2011, establishing the final methodologies and the implementation schedule of the aforementioned additional capital requirements. The new capital requirements, which are aimed at covering risks not contemplated in Pilar I of Basel II, include requirements to cover concentration, interest rate and systemic risk. Additionally, pro-cyclical capital requirements were also established. These new requirements will be implemented over a period of five years starting in July 2012. Article 184 of Law 26702, as amended by Legislative Decree 1028, provides that regulatory capital may be used to cover credit risk, market risk and operational risk. Regulatory capital is comprised of the sum of basic capital and supplementary capital, and is calculated as follows: •Basic Capital: Basic Capital or Tier 1 capital is comprised of: (i) paid-in-capital (which includes common stock and perpetual non-cumulative preferred stock), legal reserves, supplementary capital premiums, voluntary reserves distributable only with prior SBS approval, and retained earnings with capitalization agreements (earnings that the shareholders or the Board of Directors, as the case may be, have committed to capitalize as common stock); (ii) other elements that have characteristics of permanence and loss absorption that are in compliance with regulations enacted by the SBS, such as hybrid securities; and (iii) unrealized gains and retained earnings in Subsidiaries. Items deducted from Tier 1 capital include: (i) current and past years’ unrealized losses; (ii) deficits of loan loss provisions; (iii) goodwill resulting from corporate reorganizations or acquisitions; and (iv) half of the amount referred to in “Deductions” below. Absent any Tier 2 capital, 100% of the amount referred to in “Deductions” below must be deducted from Tier 1 capital. The elements referred to in item (ii) above should not exceed 17.65% of the amount resulting from adding components (i) and (iii) of Tier 1 capital net of the deductions in (i), (ii) and (iii) in this paragraph. •Supplementary Capital: Supplementary capital is comprised of the sum of Tier 2 and Tier 3 capital. Tier 2 capital elements include: (i) voluntary reserves that may be reduced without prior consent from the SBS; (ii) the eligible portion of redeemable subordinated debt and of any other components that have characteristics of debt and equity as provided by the SBS; (iii) for banks using the Standardized Approach Method (SAM), the generic loan loss provision up to 1.25% of credit risk-weighted assets; or, alternatively, for banks using the Internal Ratings-Based Method (IRB), the generic loan loss provision up to 0.6% of total credit risk-weighted assets (pursuant to article 189 of the Law); and (iv) half of the amount referred to in “Deductions” below. Tier 3 capital is comprised of redeemable subordinated debt that is incurred with the exclusive purpose of covering market risk, as referred to in Article 233 of the Law. •Deductions: The following elements are deducted from Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital: (i) all investments in shares and subordinated debt issued by other local or foreign financial institutions and insurance companies; (ii) all investments in shares and subordinated debt issued by an affiliate with which the bank consolidates its financial statements, including its holding company and such subsidiaries referred to in Articles 34 and 224 of the Law; (iii) the amount in which an investment in shares issued by a company with which the bank does not consolidate its financial statements and which is not part of the bank’s negotiable portfolio, exceeds 15% of the bank’s regulatory capital; (iv) the aggregate amount of all investments in shares issued by companies with which the bank does not consolidate its financial statements and which are not part of the bank’s negotiable portfolio, exceeds 60% of the regulatory capital; (v) when applicable, the amount resulting from the formula prescribed in Article 189 of the Law. For the purposes herein, “regulatory capital” excludes the amounts referred to in (iii), (iv) and (iv) of this paragraph. 58 Article 185 of the Law 26702 also provides that the following limits apply when calculating regulatory capital: (i) the aggregate amount of supplementary capital must not exceed the aggregate amount of basic capital; (ii) the amount of redeemable Tier 2 subordinated instruments must be limited to 50% of the amount resulting from the sum of Tier 1 elements net of the deductions in (i), (ii), and (iii) in “Basic Capital” above; (iii) the amount of Tier 3 capital must be limited to 250% of the amount resulting from the sum of Tier 1 elements net of the deductions (i), (ii), and (iii) in “Basic Capital” above in the amounts assigned to cover market risk. As of December 31, 2011, BCP’s regulatory capital was 14.53% of unconsolidated risk-weighted assets, which is equivalent to having risk-weighted assets that are 6.88 times the amount of regulatory capital. Legal Reserve Requirements In accordance with Peruvian regulation - article 67 of Law 26702-, a reserve of up to at least 35 percent of paid-in capital of the Group’s subsidiaries operating in Peru is required to be established through annual transfers of at least 10 percent of their net income. In accordance with Bolivian regulation, a reserve of up to at least 50 percent of paid-in capital of the Group’s subsidiaries operating in Bolivia is required to be established through annual transfers of at least 10 percent of their net income. As of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, these reserves amounted to approximately US$387.3 million, US$369.3 million and US$242.9 million, respectively. Provisions for Loan Losses The SBS has authority to establish loan reserves and issue guidelines for the provision of loan losses of Peruvian credit institutions, including commercial banks. SBS Resolution No. 41-2005, enacted in January 2005, requires additional provisions for loans subject to foreign exchange risk, which are recorded for local purposes. Since July 2010, SBS Resolution No. 11356-2008 has required commercial banks to implement a new framework for the assessment and classification of debtors. The resolution also required the establishment of pro-cyclical provisions starting December 2008. In September 2009, the SBS cancelled the requirement of “procyclical” provisions, but in September 2010 a new SBS resolution reinstated this kind of provisions. We estimate and record our allowance for loan losses according to the criteria set out in IAS 39, adjusting the local provisions as necessary. See Notes 3(f)(ii) and 3(i) to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Provisions for Country Risk SBS Resolution No. 505-2002 requires the establishment of provisions for exposure to country risk, which includes sovereign risk, transfer risk and expropriation or nationalization risk that may affect operations with companies or individuals in foreign countries. The SBS has also established guidelines for the procedures and responsibilities for management of country risk. Central Bank Reserve Requirements Under Law 26702, banks and financial institutions are required to maintain legal reserve requirements for certain obligations. The changes in the reserve requirement regulations were made in the second half of 2010 in accordance with the monetary policy adopted by the Central Bank. 59 The Central Bank requires financial instructions to maintain marginal reserve requirements for obligations for local and foreign currency obligations. The exact level and method of calculation of the reserve requirement is established by the Central Bank. The reserve requirements in Peru apply to obligations such as demand and time deposits, savings accounts, securities, certain bonds and funds administered by the bank. Additionally, the Central Bank requires reserves on amounts due to foreign banks and other foreign financial institutions. Furthermore, as of January 2011, obligations of foreign subsidiaries and affiliates are also subject to the reserve requirement. Funding from the public sector directed to the microfinance sector and foreign credits with periods of 2 years or more are not subject to the regulation, among other exemptions. In 2011, the Central Bank, as a part of its monetary policy to restrict internal demand and the risk of inflation, maintained the minimum level of reserves for banks at 9%. Bank obligations are subject to a marginal reserve ratio of 55% in foreign currency and 25% in local currency. The reserve funds can be constituted by cash and deposits, with a minimum of 3% held in deposits in current accounts in the Central Bank. Additionally, the marginal reserve requirement on foreign credits with a tenor of less than 2 years has remained at 60% since January 2011. The Central Bank establishes a remuneration rate on the marginal reserves, those that exceed the minimum legal requirement of 9%, only if such reserves are deposited in the Central Bank’s current account. Foreign currency cannot be used to comply with reserve requirements for liabilities in domestic currency, and vice versa. The Central Bank oversees compliance with the reserve requirements. The reference interest rate is periodically revised by the Central Bank in accordance with its monetary policy objectives. Once a month the board of directors of the Central Bank approves and announces the Monetary Program through a press release. The reference interest rate increased in 2008 reaching a maximum level of 6.5%. During 2009 the Central Bank started to loosen its monetary policy stance as a response to the deceleration of private spending and the deterioration of the economy. The Central Bank reduced the reference interest rate from 6.50% to 1.25% during that year. In May 2010, the Central Bank changed the direction of its monetary policy to a more restrictive position in line with the rapid growth of domestic demand and the potential for dangerous levels of inflation. Since then, there have been consecutive increases in the reference interest rate, which was raised most recently in May 2011 from 4.00% to 4.25%. As of December 2011, the reference interest rate remained at that level. In recent years, the Central Bank has on numerous occasions changed the reserve requirement applicable to Peruvian financial institutions as part of its monetary policy. The regulations that were put in place during 2011 have increased the amount of reserves required by S/.2,032 million and US$1,795 million in local and foreign currency respectively. This new environment has led to an increase in the funding cost of the bank. Changes in the reserve requirement regulation may adversely affect the bank´s business, financial condition and results of operations. Even though the marginal required rates have been stable since April 2011, the average rate increased to 14.04% from 13.24% in Nuevos Soles and to 38.7% from 38.0% in foreign currency. In December 2011, the reserve position of commercial banks was S/.9,402 million and US$8,991 million in local and foreign currency, respectively. Lending Activities Law 26702 sets the maximum amount of credit that a financial institution may extend to a single borrower. A single borrower includes an individual or an economic group. An economic group constituting a single or common risk includes a person, such person’s close relatives and the companies in which such person or close relatives have significant share ownership or decision-making capability. Significant decision-making capability is deemed to be present when, among other factors, a person or group can exercise material and continuous influence upon the decisions of a company, when a person or company holds seats on the board of directors or has principal officers in another company, or when it can be assumed that one company or person is the beneficial recipient of credit facilities granted to another company. 60 The limit on credit that may be extended to one borrower vary according to the type of borrower and the collateral received. The limit applicable to credit for any Peruvian borrower is 10% of the bank’s regulatory capital, applied to both unconsolidated and consolidated records, which may be increased to up to 30% if the loan is collateralized in a manner acceptable under Law 26702. If a financial institution exceeds these limits, the SBS may impose a fine on the institution. As of December 31, 2011, the 10.0% credit limit per borrower of BCP, unconsolidated, was US$267.1 million for unsecured loans, and the 30.0% limit was US$801.3 million for secured loans. Pursuant to Article 52 of the organic law of the Central Bank, in certain circumstances, the Central Bank has the authority to establish limits on interest rates charged by commercial banks and other financial institutions. No such limits are currently in place; however, there can be no assurance that the Central Bank will not establish such limits on interest rates in the future. Related Party Transactions Law 26702 regulates transactions with related parties and affiliates of financial institutions. SBS and SMV have also enacted regulations that define indirect ownership, related parties and economic groups, which serve to limit transactions with related parties and affiliates. These regulations also provide standards for the supervision of financial and mixed conglomerates formed by financial institutions. The total amount of loans to directors, employees or close relatives of any such persons may not exceed 7% of a bank’s regulatory capital (i.e., 5% of the overall 7% limit). All loans made to any single director or employee borrower, considering his/her close relatives may not exceed 0.35% of such a regulatory capital. Pursuant to Law 26702, as amended by Law 27102, the aggregate amount of loans to related party borrowers considered to be part of an economic group (as defined above) may not exceed 30% (previously 75%) of a bank’s regulatory capital. For purposes of this test, related party borrowers include (i) any person holding, directly or indirectly, 4% or more of a bank’s shares, (ii) directors, (iii) certain principal executive officers of a bank or (iv) persons affiliated with the administrators of the bank. Loans to individual related party borrowers are also subject to the limits on lending to a single borrower described under “—Lending Activities” above. All loans to related parties must be made on terms no more favorable than the best terms that BCP offers to the public. Ownership Restrictions Law 26702 establishes certain restrictions on the ownership of a bank’s shares. Banks must have at least two shareholders at all times. Restrictions are placed on the ownership of shares by persons that have committed certain crimes, as well as by public officials who have supervisory powers over banks or who are majority shareholders of an enterprise of a similar nature. All transfers of shares in a bank must be reported by the bank to the SBS after the transfer. Transfers involving the acquisition by any individual or corporation, whether directly or indirectly, of more than 10% of a bank’s capital stock require prior authorization from the SBS. The SBS may deny authorization to such transfer of shares if the purchasers (or their shareholders in the case of juridical persons) are legally disabled, have engaged in illegal activity in the area of banking, finance, insurance or reinsurance, or if objections are raised on the basis of the purchaser’s moral fitness or economic solvency. The decision of the SBS is final, and cannot be overturned by the courts. If a transfer is made without obtaining the prior approval of the SBS, the purchaser may be fined an amount equivalent to the value of the securities transferred. In addition, the purchaser is required to sell the securities within 30 days, or the fine will double, and the purchaser is disqualified from exercising its voting rights at shareholders’ meetings. Foreign investors receive the same treatment as Peruvian nationals and are subject to the limitations described above. Finally, under Peruvian law, individuals or corporations that acquire more than 3% of a bank’s shares or 1% in a period of 12 months are required to provide information to the SBS upon request. 61 Finally, under Peruvian law, individuals or corporations that acquire, directly or indirectly, 1% of the capital stock of a bank in a period of 12 months or if with such purchases acquire a 3% or more share participation, have the obligation to provide the information that the SBS may require in order to identify their main economic activities and assets structure. Risk Rating Law 26702 and SBS Resolutions No. 672 and 18400-2010, require that all financial companies be rated by at least two risk rating companies on a semi-annual basis, in addition to the SBS’s assessment. Criteria to be considered in the rating include risk management and control procedures, loan quality, financial strength, profitability, liquidity and financial efficiency. Five risk categories are assigned, from “A” (lowest risk) to “E” (highest risk), allowing for sub-categories within each category. As of September 2011, BCP was assigned the “A+” risk category by its two rating agencies, Equilibrium Clasificadora de Riesgo and Apoyo and Associates International. As of December 2011, BCP maintained the risk category of “A+”. Deposit Fund Law 26702 provides for mandatory deposit insurance to protect the deposits of financial institutions by establishing the Fondo de Seguro de Depósitos (Deposit Insurance Fund or the Fund) for individuals, associations, not-for-profit companies, and demand deposits of non-financial companies. Financial institutions must pay an annual premium calculated on the basis of the type of deposits accepted by the entity and the risk classification of such entity, made by the SBS and at least two independent risk-rating agencies. The annual premium begins at 0.65% of total funds on deposit under the coverage of the Fund and increases to 1.45% applicable to banks in the highest risk category. BCP is currently classified in the lowest risk category. The maximum amount (defined on a monthly basis) that a customer is entitled to recover from the Fund is S/. 91,621 as of December 31, 2011. Intervention by the SBS Pursuant to Law 26702, as amended by Law 27102, the SBS has the authority to seize the operations and assets of a bank. These laws provide for three levels of action by the SBS: a supervisory regime, an intervention regime and the liquidation of the bank. Any of these actions may be taken if certain events occur, including if the bank: (i) interrupts payments on its liabilities, (ii) repeatedly fails to comply with the regulations of the SBS or the Central Bank, (iii) repeatedly violates the law or the provisions of the bank’s bye-laws, (iv) repeatedly manages its operations in an unauthorized or unsound manner or (v) has its regulatory capital fall or be reduced by more than 50%. During the intervention regime, rather than seizing the operations and assets of a bank, the SBS may adopt other measures, including (i) placing additional requirements on the bank, (ii) ordering it to increase its capital stock or divest certain or all of its assets, or (iii) imposing a special supervision regime during which BCP must adhere to a financial restructuring plan. The SBS intervention regime stops a bank’s operations and may last for a maximum of 45 days, which may be extended for an additional 45 days. During this time, the SBS may institute measures such as: (i) canceling losses by reducing reserves, capital and subordinated debt, (ii) segregating certain assets and liabilities for transfer to another financial institution and (iii) merging the intervened bank with an acquiring institution according to the program established by Urgent Decree No. 108-2000, enacted in November 2000. After the intervention, the SBS will liquidate the bank unless it is merged with an acquiring institution, as described in (iii) above. 62 Regulation from the United States Federal Reserve Bank and from the State of Florida Department of Banking and Finance Banco de Credito del Peru, Miami Agency (“BCP Miami Agency”) is licensed to operate as an International Agency in the State of Florida and was authorized to transact business by the Comptroller of Florida on September 3, 2002. The Office of Financial Regulation of the State of Florida shares regulatory responsibility with the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. Regulation from the Superintendency of Banks in Panama BCP Panama is a branch of BCP that is registered in the Republic of Panama. It began operating in June 2002 under an International License issued by the Panamanian Superintendence of Banks, in accordance with Law Decree No. 9 of February 26, 1998, as amended. BCP Panama is subject to an inspection every two (2) years made by auditors and inspectors of the Panamanian Superintendence of Banks, to determine, among other things, its compliance with the Decree Law No. 2 and No. 42 Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering. (iii)ASB General Atlantic Security Bank (ASB), a subsidiary of ASHC, is a Cayman Islands bank with a branch in Panama. ASB is regulated by the regulatory authorities of the Cayman Islands while its Panama branch is regulated by the banking authorities of Panama. The supervision of ASB by Cayman Islands and Panamanian regulatory authorities is less extensive than the supervision and regulation of U.S. banks by U.S. banking authorities. In particular, ASB does not have a lender of last resort and its deposits are not guaranteed by any government agency. ASB is registered as an exempt company and is licensed in the Cayman Islands pursuant to the Banks and Trust Companies Law. ASB holds an unrestricted Category B Banking and Trust License, as well as a Mutual Fund Administrator License. As a holder of a Category B License, ASB may not take deposits from any person residing in the Cayman Islands other than another licensee, an exempt company or an ordinary non-resident company which is not carrying on business in the Cayman Islands. ASB may not invest in any asset which represents a claim on any person residing in the Cayman Islands, except a claim resulting from: (i) a loan to an exempt or an ordinary non-resident company not carrying on business in the Cayman Islands; (ii) a loan by way of mortgage to a member of its staff or to a person possessing or being deemed to possess Caymanian status under the immigration law, for the purchase or construction of a residence in the Cayman Islands to be owner-occupied; (iii) a transaction with another licensee or (iv) the purchase of bonds or other securities issued by the government of the Cayman Islands, a body incorporated by statute, or a company in which the government is the sole or majority beneficial owner. In addition, ASB may not, without the written approval of the Cayman Islands Monetary Authority (the “Authority”), carry on any business in the Cayman Islands other than permitted by the Category B License. There are no ratio or liquidity requirements under the Cayman Banking Law, but the Authority expects observance of prudent banking practices. As a matter of general practice, the ratio of liabilities to capital and surplus should not exceed 40-to-1 and the ratio of risk-weighted assets to capital and surplus should not exceed 8.33-to-1 (approximately 12%). There is a statutory minimum net worth requirement of US$480,000, but the Authority generally requires a bank or trust company to maintain a higher paid-in capital appropriate to its business. The Authority requires compliance with the guidelines promulgated by the Basel Accord on Banking Regulations and Supervisory Practices although, in special circumstances, different gearing and/or capital risk asset ratios may be negotiated. Compliance with the Cayman Banking Law is monitored by the Authority. 63 Continuing Requirements Under the law of the Cayman Islands, ASB is subject to the following continuing requirements: (i) to remain in good standing under the Cayman Islands Companies Law, including the filing of annual and other returns and the payment of annual fees; (ii) to file with the Registrar of Companies any change in the information or documents required to be provided and to pay annual fees; (iii) to file certain prescribed forms with the Authority on a quarterly basis; (iv) to file with the Authority audited accounts within three months of each financial year (in the case of a locally incorporated bank which is not part of a substantial international banking group, a senior officer or board member discusses these accounts each year at a meeting with the Authority) and (v) to file an annual questionnaire. ASB is required by the Cayman Banking Law to have at least two directors. Additionally, ASB must receive prior approval from the Authority (i) for any proposed change in the directors or senior officers, though in exceptional cases a waiver can be obtained enabling changes to be reported after the event or annually in the case of a branch of a substantial international bank; (ii) for the issue, transfer or other disposal of shares (it is rare for a waiver to be granted with respect to shares except in the case of a branch of a substantial international bank and where the shares are widely held and publicly traded); (iii) for any significant change in the business plan filed on the original license application or (iv) to open a subsidiary, branch, agency or representative office outside the Cayman Islands. Finally, ASB must obtain the prior approval of the Authority to change its name and must notify the Authority of any change in the principal office and authorized agent in the Cayman Islands. (iv)BCP Bolivia Until March 2010, the Bolivian banking system operated under the Ley de Bancos y Entidades Financieras (the Law of Banks and Financial Entities) No. 1488, enacted on April 14, 1993, which was modified by Law 3076 of June 20, 2005, which granted supervisory powers to the Superintendency of Banks and Financial Entities (now referred to as the Financial System Supervisory Authority (Autoridad de Supervisión del Sistema Financiero), pursuant to Supreme Decree 29894). In addition, the law established that Banco Central de Bolivia (the Central Bank of Bolivia) would regulate financial intermediation and deposit activities, determine monetary and foreign exchange policy, and establish reserve requirements on deposits and capital adequacy, which banks and financial companies were required to follow. Also, the Autoridad de Supervisión del Sistema Financiero (the Financial System Supervisory Authority) supervised brokerage activities and mutual fund management that was conducted through BCP Bolivia’s subsidiaries Credibolsa S.A. and Credifondo S.A. These subsidiaries operated under the Ley del Mercado de Valores (the Securities Markets Law) No. 1834, enacted on March 31, 1998. The new constitution of Bolivia, which was approved by referendum in February 2009, established that the Bolivian financial system is to be regulated as follows: •The Central Bank of Bolivia is responsible for maintaining the stability of the internal monetary value and has authority to regulate monetary policy, control foreign exchange policies, regulate the payment system, authorize the issuance of money and administrate international reserves in coordination with the Economic Policy stated by the Public Sector. •All financial entities (banks, mutual funds, securities, insurance and others) are regulated by the Financial System Supervisory Authority (or FSSA). The FSSA (or ASFI in Spanish) has assumed all regulatory functions held previously be the Superintendency of Banks and Financial Entities and the Superintendency of Pensions, Securities and Insurance. The changes to existing laws by the new Bolivian constitution have not materially impacted BCP Bolivia’s business. The Bolivian government announced that through the first quarter of 2012 they intend to adopt a new law that involves the application of a new tax burden to the banks and non-bank financial institutions regulated by ASFI. Every institution whose profits exceed the 13% of coefficient of equity returns will be taxed with an additional aliquot of 12.5%. The government also intends enact a related decree, simultaneously with the new law, which will raise the capital adequacy ratio over 10% to strengthen the equity of financial institutions operating in Bolivia. A draft of the new law has not yet been published. 64 (v)Grupo Pacífico Overview Grupo Pacífico’s operations are regulated by Law 26702 and the SBS. Peruvian insurance companies must submit regular reports to the SBS concerning their operations. In addition, the SBS conducts on-sight reviews on an annual basis. The SBS conducts these reviews primarily to evaluate a company’s compliance with solvency margin and reserve requirements, investment requirements and rules governing the recognition of premium income. If the SBS determines that a company is unable to meet the solvency margin or technical reserve requirements, or is unable to pay claims as they come due, it may either liquidate the company or permit it to merge with another insurance company. Under Peruvian law, insurance companies may engage in certain credit risk operations, such as guarantees, bonds and trusteeships, but are prohibited from offering other banking services, operating mutual funds or offering portfolio management services. In addition, insurance companies may not conduct brokerage operations for third parties. Peruvian insurance companies are also prohibited from having an ownership interest in other insurance or reinsurance companies of the same class or in private pension funds. Establishment of an Insurance Company Insurance companies must be authorized by the SBS to commence operations. Peruvian law establishes certain minimum capital requirements for insurance and reinsurance companies, which must be satisfied by cash investments in the company. The statutory amounts are expressed in constant value. Solvency Requirements Pursuant to Law 26702, the SBS regulates the solvency margin of Peruvian insurance companies. The solvency margin calculations take into account the amount of premiums written and losses incurred during a specified period prior to the date of the calculation. Insurance companies must also maintain solvency equity, which must be the greater of (i) the solvency margin and (ii) the minimum capital requirement, as established by law. The required amount of solvency equity is recalculated at least quarterly. If an insurance company has outstanding credit risk operations, part of the solvency equity must be set aside for its coverage. Legal Reserve Requirements Peruvian law also requires that all insurance companies establish a legal guarantee reserve for policyholders by setting aside 10% of income before taxes until the reserve reaches at least 35% of paid-in capital. 65 Reserve Requirements Pursuant to Law 26702 and regulations issued by the SBS, Peruvian insurance companies must establish technical reserves. See “—(6) Pacífico Peruano Suiza—(ii) Claims and Reserves.” Law 26702 also requires insurance companies to create a reserve for IBNR claims, which are reflected as a liability, net of recoveries and reinsurance, in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Reserves for IBNR claims are estimated by using generally accepted actuarial reserving methods. See Note 3(e) to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Finally, Grupo Pacífico is required by the SBS to establish pre-event reserves for risk of catastrophes, which, in accordance with IFRS principles, are not considered in our financial statements. See “—(6) Pacífico Peruano Suiza—(ii) Claims and Reserves.” Investment Requirements Pursuant to Law 26702, the total amount of an insurance company’s solvency equity and technical reserves must be permanently supported by diversified assets, which may not be pledged or otherwise encumbered. The investment regulations further state that deposits in and bonds of one financial institution together cannot exceed 10% of the total of an insurer’s solvency equity and technical reserves combined. In general, no more than 20% of an insurance company’s combined solvency equity and technical reserves may be invested in instruments (including stocks and bonds) issued by a company or group of companies. In order for an insurance company to invest in non-Peruvian securities, the securities must be rated by an internationally recognized credit rating company and the asset class must be authorized by Peruvian SBS regulations. Securities owned by insurance companies must be registered in the Public Registry of Securities of Peru or the comparable registry of their respective country. Related Party Transactions Law 26702 generally provides that insurance companies may not extend credit to or guarantee the obligations of employees or members of the board of directors, except for certain home mortgage loans to employees. Ownership Restrictions Law 26702 sets forth the same types of restrictions regarding the ownership and transfer of insurance company shares as it does regarding the ownership and transfer of shares in banks. See “—(11) Supervision and Regulation—(ii) BCP—Overview”. (vi)Prima AFP Prima AFP’s operations are regulated in Peru by the Consolidated Sole Text of the Private System for the Administration of Funds Act, approved by Supreme Decree No. 054-97-EF. Operations are controlled and supervised by the SBS. In addition, AFPs are under the supervision of the SMV (Superintendencia del Mercado de Valores). AFPs must submit reports to the SBS, members and beneficiaries in general, with regard to the administration of pension funds and any information linked to the AFP’s operations. Under Peruvian legislation, AFPs can only have one type of business activity, that is, they can only offer services linked to the administration of pension funds under the category of Individual Capital Accounts. Also, AFPs must pay benefits provided by Law and administer retirement, disability, death benefit and funeral expense risks. AFPs must submit audited financial information, in accordance with SBS regulations. There are certain limitations on the ownership and transfer of AFP shares 66 SBS authorization is required for an AFP to begin operations. Peruvian law establishes a minimum capital requirement, paid in cash by the shareholders. SBS has put in place many investment limits. These limits restrain the amounts AFPs are allowed to invest considering asset class, economic group, issuer, among others. In addition, some of these limits vary regarding the risk profile of the fund. Among these limits, the most general investment limits are as follows: ·The total amount invested in instruments issued or guaranteed by the Peruvian State cannot exceed 30% of the fund value; ·The total amount invested in instruments issued or guaranteed by BCRP cannot exceed 30% of the fund value; ·The total amount jointly invested under the two aforementioned points cannot exceed 40% of the fund value and; ·The total amount invested in instruments issued by the government, financial institutions, and non-financial institutions whose commercial activities are mostly abroad, cannot exceed 50% of the fund value. The Central Bank has set a maximum operating sub-limit at 30%. As mentioned before, the Central Bank can set maximum operating percentages and/or sub-limits to the aforementioned investment limits. SBS requires a guaranteed minimum profitability for funds under management. Part of the guarantee is the Encaje Legal, an obligatory reserve, which must be funded by the AFP. The amount will depend on the instruments in the portfolio, but is, on average, 1% of funds under management. In addition, Peruvian law establishes that companies must set up a legal reserve equivalent to 10% of net income, until the reserve is at least 20% of the capital. (12)Selected Statistical Information In the following tables, we have set forth certain selected statistical information and ratios regarding our business for the periods indicated. You should read the selected statistical information in conjunction with the information included in “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—(A) Operating Results” and the Consolidated Financial Statements (and the notes that accompany the financial statements). The statistical information and discussion and analysis given below for the years 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011 reflect our consolidated financial position as well as that of our subsidiaries, as of December 31, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011 and our results of operations for 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011. (i)Average Balance Sheets and Income from Interest-Earning Assets The tables below set forth selected statistical information based on our average balance sheets prepared on a consolidated basis. Except as otherwise indicated, we have classified average balances by currency (Nuevos Soles or foreign currency (primarily U.S. Dollars)) rather than by the domestic or international nature of the balance. In addition, except where noted, the average balances are based on the quarterly ending balances in each year. Any of these quarter-end balances that were denominated in Nuevos Soles have been converted into U.S. Dollars using the applicable SBS exchange rate as of the date of such balance. Our management does not believe that the stated averages present trends materially differ from those that would be presented by daily averages. 67 Average Balance Sheets Assets, Interest Earned and Average Interest Rates Year ended December 31, 2009 2010 2011 ASSETS: Average Balance Interest Earned Nominal Avg. Rate Average Balance Interest Earned Nominal Avg. Rate Average Balance Interest Earned Nominal Avg. Rate (U.S. Dollars in thousands, except percentages) Interest-earning assets: Deposits in Central Bank Nuevos Soles US$64,870 US$1,425 2.20% US$ 1,056,389 US$ 25,351 2.40% US$ 962,291 US$ 33,041 3.43% Foreign Currency 2,099,395 3,446 0.16 2,147,576 3,319 0.15 2,804,304 3,277 0.12 Total 2,164,265 4,871 0.23 3,203,965 28,670 0.89 3,766,595 36,318 0.96 Deposits in other banks Nuevos Soles 111,006 5,733 5.16 54,525 1,135 2.08 80,058 4,004 5.00 Foreign Currency 920,030 5,314 0.58 855,555 2,532 0.30 894,865 2,564 0.29 Total 1,031,036 11,047 1.07 910,080 3,667 0.40 974,923 6,568 0.67 Investment securities Nuevos Soles 1,536,677 38,313 2.49 2,223,416 64,732 2.91 2,607,309 126,683 4.86 Foreign Currency 3,288,724 148,316 4.51 3,314,529 132,063 3.98 2,853,192 101,026 3.54 Total 4,825,401 186,629 3.87 5,537,945 196,795 3.55 5,460,501 227,709 4.17 Total loans (1) Nuevos Soles 3,893,475 537,357 13.80 4,957,672 698,995 14.10 6,325,230 1,069,628 16.91 Foreign Currency 6,810,072 524,689 7.70 7,967,501 519,733 6.52 9,749,989 463,723 4.76 Total 10,703,547 1,062,046 9.92 12,925,173 1,218,728 9.43 16,075,219 1,533,351 9.54 Total dividend-earning assets Nuevos Soles 160,185 2,057 1.28 228,216 6,810 2.98 254,027 8,347 3.29 Foreign Currency 114,074 7,658 6.71 208,061 4,805 2.31 256,661 6,974 2.72 Total 274,259 9,715 3.54 436,277 11,615 2.66 510,688 15,321 3.00 Total interest-earning assets Nuevos Soles 5,766,213 584,885 10.14 8,520,218 797,023 9.35 10,228,915 1,241,703 12.14 Foreign Currency 13,232,295 689,423 5.21 14,493,222 662,452 4.57 16,559,011 577,564 3.49 Total 18,998,508 1,274,308 6.71 23,013,440 1,459,475 6.34 26,787,926 1,819,267 6.79 Noninterest-earning assets: Cash and due from banks Nuevos Soles 327,127 362,846 478,035 Foreign Currency 275,276 317,649 368,180 Total 602,403 680,495 846,215 Reserves for loan losses Nuevos Soles (133,303) (211,053) (257,621) Foreign Currency (156,364) (184,307) (212,862) Total (289,667) (395,360) (470,483) Premises and equipment Nuevos Soles 303,170 338,817 383,131 Foreign Currency 19,242 15,518 15,112 Total 322,412 354,335 398,243 Other non-interest-earning assets and gain from derivatives instruments and other interest income Nuevos Soles 820,740 12,728 1,100,346 3,531 1,130,516 14,993 Foreign Currency 814,175 25,889 669,910 8,702 755,903 3,504 Total 1,634,915 38,617 1,770,256 12,233 1,886,419 18,497 Total non-interest-earning assets Nuevos Soles 1,317,734 12,728 1,590,956 3,531 1,734,061 14,993 Foreign Currency 952,329 25,889 818,770 8,702 926,333 3,504 Total 2,270,063 38,617 2,409,726 12,233 2,660,394 18,497 Total average assets Nuevos Soles 7,083,947 597,613 8.44 10,111,174 800,554 7.92 11,962,976 1,256,696 10.5 Foreign Currency 14,184,624 715,312 5.04 15,311,992 671,154 4.38 17,485,344 581,068 3.32 Total 21,268,571 1,312,925 6.17 25,423,166 1,471,708 5.79 29,448,320 1,837,764 6.24 (1)Figures for total loans include past-due loans, but do not include accrued but unpaid interest on such past-due loans in the year in which such loans became past due. Accrued interest is included. 68 Average Balance Sheets Liabilities, Interest Paid and Average Interest Rates Year ended December 31, 2009 2010 2011 LIABILITIES Average Balance Interest Paid Nominal Avg. Rate Average Balance Interest Paid Nominal Avg. Rate Average Balance Interest Paid Nominal Avg. Rate (U.S. Dollars in thousands, except percentages) Interest-bearing liabilities: Demand deposits Nuevos Soles (1) US$ 1,723,108 US$ 15,378 0.89% US$ 2,251,493 US$ 9,140 0.41% US$ 2,503,311 US$ 11,586 0.46% Foreign Currency (1) 2,685,555 6,036 0.22 3,018,009 4,510 0.15 3,773,232 5,544 0.15 Total 4,408,663 21,414 0.49 5,269,502 13,650 0.26 6,276,543 17,130 0.27 Savings deposits Nuevos Soles (1) 1,283,529 8,610 0.67 1,719,869 4,086 0.24 2,271,029 8,079 0.36 Foreign Currency (1) 1,952,183 9,899 0.51 2,104,084 4,733 0.22 2,367,401 5,462 0.23 Total 3,235,712 18,509 0.57 3,823,953 8,820 0.23 4,638,430 13,541 0.29 Time deposits Nuevos Soles (1) 1,988,784 86,312 4.34 2,890,800 69,275 2.40 3,361,966 136,932 4.07 Foreign Currency (1) 4,191,628 119,806 2.86 3,980,428 84,655 2.13 3,806,928 74,400 1.95 Total 6,180,412 206,118 3.34 6,871,228 153,929 2.24 7,168,894 211,332 2.95 Due to banks and correspondents Nuevos Soles 201,718 4,851 2.40 201,360 11,973 5.95 365,769 49,295 13.48 Foreign Currency 849,004 22,477 2.65 1,632,526 31,559 1.93 1,640,407 15,074 0.92 Total 1,050,722 27,328 2.60 1,833,886 43,532 2.37 2,006,176 64,369 3.21 Bonds Nuevos Soles 528,565 35,133 6.65 561,228 34,451 6.14 383,271 24,479 6.39 Foreign Currency 1,572,566 56,186 3.57 1,995,499 89,860 4.50 3,234,863 162,264 5.02 Total 2,101,131 91,319 4.35 2,556,727 124,311 4.86 3,618,134 186,743 5.16 Total interest-bearing liabilities Nuevos Soles 5,725,704 150,284 2.62 7,624,750 128,925 1.69 8,885,346 230,370 2.59 Foreign Currency 11,250,936 214,404 1.91 12,730,546 215,317 1.69 14,822,831 262,744 1.77 Total 16,976,640 364,688 2.15 20,355,296 344,242 1.69 23,708,177 493,115 2.08 Non-interest-bearing liabilities and net equity: Other liabilities and loss from derivatives instruments and other interest expenses Nuevos Soles 676,295 (11,177) 805,690 1,859 847,862 2,035 Foreign Currency 1,489,528 67,053 1,416,339 68,020 1,740,041 36,450 Total 2,165,823 55,876 2,222,029 69,879 2,587,903 38,485 Equity attributable to Credicorp equity holders Nuevos Soles Foreign Currency 1,980,856 2,683,778 3,092,282 Total 1,980,856 2,683,778 3,092,282 Minority Interest Nuevos Soles Foreign Currency 145,252 162,063 59,958 Total 145,252 162,063 59,958 Total non-interest-bearing liabilities and equity Nuevos Soles 676,295 (11,177) 805,690 1,859 847,862 2,035 Foreign Currency 3,615,636 67,053 4,262,180 68,020 4,892,281 36,450 Total 4,291,931 55,876 5,067,870 69,879 5,740,143 38,485 Total average liabilities and equity Nuevos Soles 6,401,999 139,107 2.17 8,430,440 130,784 1.55 9,733,208 232,405 2.39 Foreign Currency 14,866,572 281,457 1.89 16,992,726 283,337 1.67 19,715,112 299,194 1.52 Total 21,268,571 420,564 1.98 25,423,166 414,121 1.63 29,448,320 531,600 1.81 (1)Includes the amount paid - for the deposit insurance fund. 69 Changes in Net Interest Income and Expense: Volume and Rate Analysis 2010/2009 2011/2010 Increase/(Decrease) due to changes in: Increase/(Decrease) due to changes in: Volume Rate Net Change Volume Rate Net Change (U.S. Dollars in thousands) Interest Income: Interest-earning deposits in Central Bank Nuevos Soles 21,781 2,145 23,926 (2,745) 10,435 7,690 Foreign Currency 79 (206) (127) 891 (933) (42) Total 21,860 1,939 23,799 (1,854) 9,502 7,648 Deposits in other banks Nuevos Soles (2,917) (1,681) (4,598) 904 1,965 2,869 Foreign Currency (372) (2,410) (2,782) 114 (82) 32 Total (3,289) (4,091) (7,380) 1,018 1,883 2,901 Investment securities Nuevos Soles 17,122 9,297 26,419 14,915 47,036 61,951 Foreign Currency 1,164 (17,417) (16,253) (17,358) (13,679) (31,037) Total 18,286 (8,120) 10,166 (2,443) 33,357 30,914 Total loans(1) Nuevos Soles 146,875 14,763 161,638 212,038 158,595 370,633 Foreign Currency 89,175 (94,131) (4,956) 100,526 (156,536) (56,010) Total 236,050 (79,368) 156,682 312,564 2,059 314,623 Total dividend-earning assets Nuevos Soles 874 3,879 4,753 809 728 1,537 Foreign Currency 6,310 (9,163) (2,853) 1,221 948 2,169 Total 7,184 (5,284) 1,900 2,030 1,676 3,706 Total interest-earning assets Nuevos Soles 279,347 (67,209) 212,138 183,631 261,049 444,680 Foreign Currency 65,696 (92,667) (26,971) 83,238 (168,126) (84,888) Total 345,043 (159,876) 185,167 266,869 92,923 359,792 Interest Expense: Demand deposits Nuevos Soles 4,715 (10,953) (6,238) 1,094 1,352 2,446 Foreign Currency 747 (2,273) (1,526) 1,119 (85) 1,034 Total 5,462 (13,226) (7,764) 2,213 1,267 3,480 Savings deposits Nuevos Soles 2,927 (7,451) (4,524) 1,635 2,357 3,992 Foreign Currency 770 (5,936) (5,166) 600 129 729 Total 3,697 (13,387) (9,690) 2,235 2,486 4,721 Time deposits Nuevos Soles 39,147 (56,185) (17,038) 15,241 52,417 67,658 Foreign Currency (6,037) (29,114) (35,151) (3,540) (6,714) (10,254) Total 33,110 (85,299) (52,189) 11,701 45,703 57,403 Due to banks and correspondents and issued bonds Nuevos Soles (9) 7,131 7,122 15,967 21,355 37,322 Foreign Currency 20,743 (11,661) 9,082 112 (16,597) (16,485) Total 20,734 (4,530) 16,204 16,079 4,758 20,837 Bonds Nuevos Soles 2,171 (2,853) (682) (11,145) 1,173 (9,972) Foreign Currency 15,111 18,563 33,674 58,989 13,415 72,404 Total 17,282 15,710 32,992 47,844 14,588 62,432 Total interest-bearing liabilities Nuevos Soles 49,845 (71,205) (21,360) 26,999 74,447 101,446 Foreign Currency 28,196 (27,283) 913 36,237 11,190 47,427 Total 78,041 (98,488) (20,447) 63,236 85,637 148,873 (1)Figures for total loans include past-due loans, but do not include accrued but unpaid interest on such past-due loans in the year in which such loans became past due. Accrued interest is included. Interest-Earning Assets, Net Interest Margin and Yield Spread The following table shows for each of the periods indicated, by currency, the levels of average interest-earning assets, net interest income, gross yield, net interest margin and yield spread, all on a nominal basis: Year ended December 31, 2009 2010 2011 (U.S. Dollars in thousands, except percentages) Average interest-earning assets Nuevos Soles 5,766,213 8,520,218 10,228,915 Foreign Currency 13,232,295 14,493,222 16,559,011 Total 18,998,508 23,013,440 26,787,926 Net interest income Nuevos Soles 434,601 668,098 1,011,333 Foreign Currency 475,019 447,135 314,820 Total 909,620 1,115,233 1,326,153 Gross yield (1) Nuevos Soles 10.14% 9.35% 12.14% Foreign Currency 5.21% 4.57% 3.49% Weighted-average rate 6.71% 6.34% 6.79% Net interest margin (2) Nuevos Soles 7.54% 7.84% 9.89% Foreign Currency 3.59% 3.09% 1.90% Weighted-average rate 4.79% 4.85% 4.95% Yield spread (3) Nuevos Soles 7.52% 7.66% 9.55% Foreign Currency 3.30% 2.88% 1.72% Weighted-average rate 4.56% 4.65% 4.71% (1) Gross yield is interest income divided by average interest-earning assets. (2) Net interest margin represents net interest income divided by average interest-earning assets. (3) Yield spread, on a nominal basis, represents the difference between gross yield on average interest-earning assets and average cost of interest-bearing liabilities. 70 Interest-Earning Deposits With Other Banks The following table shows the short-term funds deposited with other banks. These deposits are denominated by currency as of the dates indicated. Deposits held in countries other than Peru are denominated in several currencies; however, the majority of these deposits are denominated in U.S. Dollars. These currencies were converted to U.S. Dollars using the applicable SBS exchange rate as of the dates indicated. Year ended December 31, 2009 2010 2011 (U.S. Dollars in thousands) Nuevo Sol-denominated: Peruvian Central Bank US$56,753 US$3,649,809 US$825,975 Commercial banks 43,982 82,970 93,389 Total Nuevo Sol-denominated US$ 100,735 US$ 3,732,779 US$ 919,364 Foreign Currency-denominated: Peruvian Central Bank (U.S. Dollars) US$ 2,033,290 US$ 2,094,251 US$ 2,958,540 U.S. Dollars, other 763,631 1,092,662 530,327 Other 516 346 63 Total Foreign Currency-denominated US$ 2,797,437 US$ 3,187,259 US$ 3,488,930 Total US$ 2,898,172 US$ 6,920,038 US$ 4,408,294 (ii)Investment Portfolio The following table shows the fair value of our trading and available-for-sale investment securities without interest designated by type of security at the dates indicated (see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements): On December 31, 2009 2010 2011 (U.S. Dollars in thousands) Nuevo Sol-denominated: Peruvian government bonds US$ 170,811 US$ 299,043 US$ 473,868 Equity securities 199,410 256,931 251,032 Bonds 150,917 231,514 232,330 Peruvian Central Bank certif. notes 1,548,715 314,999 2,059,780 Other investments 149,591 158,241 180,258 Total Nuevo Sol-denominated 2,219,444 1,260,728 3,197,268 Foreign Currency-denominated: Equity securities US$ 131,327 US$ 285,270 US$ 228,527 Bonds 1,634,708 1,609,443 1,795,614 Peruvian Government Bonds 669,056 252,043 210,776 Peruvian Central Bank certif. notes - 48,851 - Other investment 443,493 387,304 517,913 Total Foreign Currency-denominated US$ 2,878,584 US$ 2,582,911 US$ 2,752,830 Total securities holdings: US$ 5,098,028 US$ 3,843,639 US$ 5,950,098 The allowance for decline in value of marketable securities is debited from the value of each individual security. 71 The weighted-average yield on our Nuevo Sol-denominated interest-earning investment securities was 2.5% in 2009, 2.9% in 2010 and 4.9% in 2011. The weighted-average yield on our foreign currency-denominated portfolio was 4.5% in 2009, 4.0% in 2010 and 3.5% in 2011. The total weighted-average yield of our investment securities was 3.9% in 2009, 3.6% in 2010 and 4.2% in 2011. The weighted-average yield on our Nuevo Sol-denominated dividend-earning assets was 1.28% in 2009, 3.0% in 2010 and 3.3% in 2011. The weighted-average yield on our foreign currency-denominated portfolio was 6.7% in 2009, 2.3% in 2010 and 2.7% in 2011. The total weighted-average yield of our dividend-earning assets was 3.5% in 2009, 2.7% in 2010 and 3.0% in 2011. The following table shows the maturities of our trading and available-for-sale investment securities designated by type of security on December 31, 2011: Within 1 year After 1 year but within 3 years Maturing After 3 years but within 5 years Maturing After 5 years but within 10 years After 10 years Total (U.S. Dollars in thousands) Nuevo Sol-denominated: Peruvian government bonds US$ 50,755 US$ 64,375 US$ 5,319 US$ 118,745 US$ 234,674 US$ 473,868 Equity securities (1) 251,032 - - - - 251,032 Bonds and debentures 12,836 34,685 30,756 72,980 81,073 232,330 Peruvian Central Bank certif. notes 2,059,780 - - - - 2,059,780 Other investments 112,856 11,382 3,091 3,959 48,970 180,258 Total Nuevo Sol-denominated US$ 2,487,259 US$ 110,442 US$ 39,166 US$ 195,684 US$ 364,717 US$ 3,197,268 Foreign Currency-denominated: Peruvian government bonds 33,522 - 37,940 632 138,682 210,776 Equity securities (1) 228,527 - - - - 228,527 Bonds 224,367 398,366 342,637 367,222 463,022 1,795,614 Peruvian Central Bank certif. notes - - - - - - Other investments 264,294 47,735 17,132 18,747 170,005 517,913 Total Foreign Currency-denominated US$ 750,710 US$ 446,101 US$ 397,709 US$ 386,601 US$ 771,709 US$ 2,752,830 Total securities holdings: US$ 3,237,969 US$ 556,543 US$ 436,875 US$ 582,285 US$ 1,136,426 US$ 5,950,098 Weighted-average yield 3.56% (1)Equity securities in our account are categorized as maturing within one year. The maturities of our investment securities classified by trading and available-for-sale, as of December 31, 2011, are described in “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” Pursuant to the criteria described below, our management has determined that the unrealized losses as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 were temporary and intends to hold each investment for a sufficient period of time to allow for a potential recovery in fair value. This holding period will last until the earlier of the investment’s recovery or maturity. For equity investments (shares), management considers the following criteria to determine whether a loss is temporary: •The length of time and the extent to which fair value has been below cost; •The severity of the impairment; •The cause of the impairment and the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer; and •Activity in the market of the issuer which may indicate adverse credit conditions. For debt investments (fixed maturity), management considers the following criteria to determine whether a loss is temporary: 72 •Management assesses the probability that the company will receive all amounts due (principal and interest) under the contract of the security. It considers a number of factors in identifying a credit-impaired security, including: (i) the nature of the security and the underlying collateral, (ii) the amount of subordination or credit enhancement supporting the security, (iii) the published credit rating and (iv) other analyses of the probable cash flows from the security. If recovery of all amounts due is not likely, management may determine that credit impairment exists and record unrealized losses in our consolidated income statement. The unrealized loss recorded in income represents the security’s decline in fair value, which includes the decline due to forecasted cash flow shortfalls as well as widening market spread. •For securities with unrealized losses not identified as a credit impairment, management determines whether it is desirable to hold the security for a period of time to allow for a potential recovery in the security’s amortized cost. Management estimates a security’s forecasted recovery period using current estimates of volatility in market interest rates (including liquidity and risk premiums). Management considers a number of factors to determine whether to hold an investment, including (i) a quantitative estimate of the expected recovery period (which may extend to maturity), (ii) the severity of the impairment and (iii) its strategy with respect to the security or portfolio. If management determines it is not desirable to hold the security for a sufficient period of time to allow for a potential recovery in the security’s amortized cost, we record the unrealized loss in our consolidated income statement. (iii)Loan Portfolio Loans by Type of Loan The following table shows our loans by type of loan, at the dates indicated: On December 31, 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (U.S. Dollars in thousands) Loans US$ 6,520,116 US$ 8,179,453 US$ 8,986,884 US$ 11,142,038 US$ 13,793,797 Leasing transactions 1,118,301 1,792,827 1,997,562 2,359,236 2,786,129 Discounted notes 325,047 368,648 349,126 477,709 552,233 Factoring 109,928 124,537 163,443 250,974 254,516 Advances and overdrafts 127,486 102,687 47,147 104,495 25,130 Refinanced loans 88,451 55,179 59,459 76,707 96,031 Past-due loans 61,488 82,867 184,567 209,908 259,050 Unearned interest (166,972) (249,914) (282,869) (343,003) (446,508) Total loans: US$ 8,183,845 US$ 10,456,284 US$ 11,505,319 US$ 14,278,064 US$ 17,320,378 Total past-due loans amounts (61,488) (82,867) (184,567) (209,908) (259,050) Total performing loans US$ 8,122,357 US$ 10,373,417 US$ 11,320,752 US$ 14,068,156 US$ 17,061,328 The loan portfolio categories set forth in the table above are based on SBS regulations, which apply to loans generated by BCP and ASHC. Pursuant to SBS guidelines, we categorize loans as follows: •Loans: Basic term loans documented by promissory notes and other extensions of credit, such as mortgage loans, credit cards and other consumer loans in various forms, including trade finance loans to importers and exporters on specialized terms adapted to the needs of the international trade transaction. •Leasing Transactions: Transactions that involve our acquisition of an asset and the financial leasing of that asset to a client. •Discounted Notes: Loans discounted at the outset (the client signs a promissory note or other evidence of indebtedness for the principal amount payable at a future date). Discounted loans also include discounting of drafts, where we make a loan supported by a draft signed by one party and discounted by another party, with recourse to both parties. 73 •Factoring: The sale of title to a company’s accounts receivables to a bank (or financial company). The receivables are sold without recourse, and the bank cannot recover from the seller in the event that the accounts are uncollectible. Under factoring loans, the seller receives funds from the bank prior to the average maturity date based on the invoice amount of the receivable, less cash discounts and allowances for estimated claims and returns, among other items. •Advances and Overdrafts: Extensions of credit to clients by way of an overdraft facility in the client’s checking account. This category also includes secured short-term advances. •Refinanced Loans: Loans that were refinanced because the client was unable to pay at maturity. A loan is categorized as a refinanced loan when a debtor is experiencing payment problems, unless the debtor is current on all interest payments and pays down at least 20% of the principal amount of the original loan. We have distinguished a sub-group titled “Restructured Loans,” which is defined as loans extended under the bankruptcy protection procedures established in the Equity Restructuring Law. •Past-Due Loans: Includes overdue loans. See “—Past-Due Loan Portfolio” for further detail. Loans by Economic Activity The following table shows our total loan portfolio composition, net of unearned interest, based on the borrower’s principal economic activity: At December 31, 2007 2008 2009 (U.S. Dollars in thousands, except percentages) Amount % Total Amount % Total Amount % Total Economic Activity Manufacturing US$2,204,481 26.94% US$2,535,326 24.25% US$2,557,847 22.23% Consumer Loans (1) 2,480,916 30.31 3,146,698 30.09 3,963,449 34.45 Commerce 884,253 10.80 1,344,921 12.86 1,330,023 11.56 Realty Business and Leasing Services 387,180 4.73 488,202 4.67 489,614 4.26 Mining 463,577 5.66 675,460 6.46 692,579 6.02 Communication, Storage and Transportation 394,986 4.83 515,412 4.93 559,025 4.86 Electricity, Gas and Water 341,718 4.18 546,014 5.22 782,289 6.80 Agriculture 179,509 2.19 228,623 2.19 271,912 2.36 Fishing 134,235 1.64 77,060 0.74 121,162 1.05 Financial Services 219,850 2.69 439,234 4.20 175,071 1.52 Education, Health and Other Services 106,423 1.30 128,527 1.23 156,496 1.36 Construction 201,298 2.46 229,667 2.20 175,508 1.53 Others (2) 352,391 4.31 351,054 3.36 513,213 4.46 Sub total 8,350,817 102.04 10,706,198 102.39 11,788,188 102.46 Unearned interest (166,972) (2.04) US$(249,914) (2.39)% US$(282,869) (2.46)% Total US$8,183,845 100.00% US$10,456,284 100.00% 11,505,319 100.00% At December 31, 2010 2011 (U.S. Dollars in thousands, except percentages) Amount % Total Amount % Total Economic Activity Manufacturing US$3,003,465 21.04% US$3,319,821 19.17% Consumer Loans (1) 4,759,207 33.32 6,132,472 35.40 Commerce 1,931,441 13.53 2,503,810 14.46 Realty Business and Leasing Services 712,330 4.99 968,952 5.59 Mining 893,145 6.26 855,774 4.94 Communication, Storage and Transportation 720,749 5.05 713,947 4.12 Electricity, Gas and Water 969,437 6.79 1,114,788 6.44 Agriculture 293,685 2.06 329,408 1.90 Fishing 134,811 0.94 164,741 0.95 Financial Services 252,869 1.77 297,612 1.72 Education, Health and Other Services 177,206 1.24 226,055 1.31 Construction 132,517 0.93 255,555 1.48 Others (2) 640,205 4.48 883,951 5.10 Sub total 14,621,067 102.40 17,766,886 102,58 Unearned interest (343,003) (2.40) (446,508) (2.58) Total US$14,278,064 100.00% US$17,320,378 100.00% 74 (1)These amounts comprise: 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (U.S. Dollars in thousands) Personal Loans 510,338 666,661 976,499 1,147,274 1,455,200 Mortgage Loans 1,121,775 1,484,495 1,752,460 2,058,403 2,723,830 Small Business 493,360 606,168 739,157 953,394 1,129,119 Credit card 355,443 389,374 495,333 600,136 824,323 2,480,916 3,146,698 3,963,449 4,759,207 6,132,472 (2)Includes community services, hotels and restaurants and other sector. As of December 31, 2011, 74.7% of the loan portfolio was concentrated in Lima, 88.7% was concentrated in Peru, and 4.3% of the loan portfolio was concentrated in Bolivia. Concentrations of Loan Portfolio and Lending Limits We have loans and other contingent credits with 20 customers (considered economic groups), which, as of December 31, 2011, was US$3,379.3 million. The amount of outstanding loans, US$3,379.3 million, represents 19.0% of the total loan portfolio. See “—(11) Supervision and Regulation—(ii) BCP—Lending Activities” for the definition of “economic group.” Our total loans and other contingent credits outstanding to these customers ranged from US$369.1 million to US$115.2 million, including 18 customers with over US$122.5 million. Total loans and other contingent credits outstanding to our 20 largest customers were ranked in the following risk categories as of December 31, 2011: Class A (normal)—99.9%; Class B (potential problems)—0.1%; Class C (substandard)—0%; Class D (doubtful)—0%; and Class E (loss)—0%. See “—Classification of the Loan Portfolio.” BCP’s loans to a single borrower are subject to lending limits imposed by Law 26702. See “—(11) Supervision and Regulation—(ii) BCP—Lending Activities.” The lending limits depend on the nature of the borrower involved and the type of collateral received. The sum of BCP’s loans to and deposits in either another Peruvian universal bank or Peruvian financial institution, plus any guarantees of third party performance received by BCP from such institution, may not exceed 30% of BCP’s regulatory capital (as defined by the SBS). The sum of BCP’s loans to and deposits in non-Peruvian financial institutions, plus any guarantees of third party performance received by BCP from such institutions, are limited to 5%, 10% or 30% of BCP’s regulatory capital, depending upon the level of government supervision of the institution and whether the institution is recognized by the Central Bank as an international bank of prime credit quality. The limits on lending to non-Peruvian financial institutions increases to 50% of BCP’s regulatory capital if the amount by which such loans exceed the 5%, 10% or 30% limits is backed by certain letters of credit. 75 BCP’s loans to directors and employees and their relatives have a global limit of 7% of regulatory capital and an individual limit of 5% of such global limit. Loans to non-Peruvian individuals or companies that are not financial institutions have a limit of 5% of BCP’s regulatory capital. However, this limit increases to 10% if the additional 5% is guaranteed by a mortgage or certain publicly-traded securities. The limit rises to 30% if the additional amount is guaranteed by certain banks or by cash deposits in BCP. Lending on an unsecured basis to individuals or companies residing in Peru that are not financial institutions is limited to 10% of BCP’s regulatory capital. This limit rises to 15% if the additional 5% is guaranteed by a mortgage, certain securities, equipment or other collateral, and to 20% if the additional amount is either backed by certain debt instruments guaranteed by other local banks or a foreign bank determined by the Central Bank to be of prime credit quality, or by other highly liquid securities at market value. The single borrower lending limit for loans backed by a cash deposit at BCP or by debt obligations of the Central Bank is 30% of BCP’s regulatory capital. With an unconsolidated regulatory capital of S/.7,201.5 million (US$2,671.2 million) on December 31, 2011, BCP’s legal lending limits varied from S/.720.2 million (US$267.1 million) to S/.3,600.8 million (US$1,335.6 million). Our consolidated lending limits, based on its regulatory capital on a consolidated basis of US$3,022.7 million on December 31, 2011, ranged from US$302.3 million to US$1,511.4 million. As of December 31, 2011, BCP was in compliance with Law 26702 lending limits. As of December 31, 2011, we complied with the applicable legal lending limits in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. These limits are calculated quarterly based upon our consolidated equity plus reserves for impaired loans not specifically identified at quarter-end. We have also set internal lending limits, which are more restrictive than those imposed by law. A limited number of exceptions to our internal limits have been authorized by our board of directors based on the credit quality of the borrower, the term of the loan, and the amount and quality of collateral provided. We may, in appropriate and limited circumstances, increase or choose to exceed these internal limits as long as our credit exposure does not exceed the legal lending limits. We may experience an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations if (i) customers to which we have significant credit exposure are not able to satisfy their obligations to us, and any related collateral is not sufficient to cover these obligations, or (ii) a reclassification of one or more of these loans or other contingent credits results in an increase in provisions for loan losses. Loan Portfolio Denomination The following table presents our Nuevo Sol and foreign currency-denominated loan portfolio at the dates indicated: At December 31, 2007 2008 2009 (U.S. Dollars in thousands, except percentages) Total loan portfolio: Nuevo Sol-denominated US$ 2,461,787 30.08% US$ 3,351,720 32.05% US$ 4,385,965 38.12% Foreign Currency-denominated 5,722,058 69.92% 7,104,564 67.95% 7,119,354 61.88% Total loans (1) US$ 8,183,845 100.00% US$ 10,456,284 100.00% US$ 11,505,319 100.00% At December 31, 2010 2011 (U.S. Dollars in thousands, except percentages) Total loan portfolio: Nuevo Sol-denominated US$ 5,415,352 37.93% US$ 6,982,086 40.31% Foreign Currency-denominated 8,862,712 62.07% 10,338,292 59.69% Total loans (1) US$ 14,278,064 100.00% US$ 17,320,378 100.00% (1)Net of unearned interest. 76 Maturity Composition of the Performing Loan Portfolio The following table sets forth an analysis of our performing loan portfolio on December 31, 2011, by type and by time remaining to maturity. Loans are stated before deduction of the reserves for loan losses. Maturing Amount at December 31, 2011 Within 3 months After 3 months but within 12 months After 1 year but within 3 years After 3 years but within 5 years After 5 years (U.S. Dollars in thousands, except percentages) Loans US$ 13,793,797 US$ 2,812,043 US$ 2,512,843 US$ 3,239,191 US$ 1,827,007 US$ 3,402,713 Leasing transactions 2,786,129 456,673 1,193,128 499,941 378,079 258,308 Discounted notes 552,233 528,467 23,617 149 - - Refinanced loans 96,031 31,353 18,311 14,320 14,660 17,387 Factoring 254,516 253,907 353 256 - - Advances and overdrafts 25,130 25,130 - - - - Total US$ 17,507,836 US$ 4,107,573 US$ 3,748,252 US$ 3,753,857 US$ 2,219,746 US$ 3,678,408 Past due Loans 259,050 Unearned interest (446,508) Total Loans US$17,320,378 % of total performing loan portfolio 100.00% 23.46% 21.41% 21.44% 12.68% 21.01% Interest Rate Sensitivity of the Loan Portfolio The following table sets forth the interest rate sensitivity of our loan portfolio on December 31, 2011, by currency and by the time remaining to maturity over one year: Amount at December 31, 2011 Maturing After 1 year (U.S. Dollars in thousands) Variable Rate Nuevo Sol-denominated US$268,450 US$ 254,797 Foreign Currency-denominated 2,568,283 1,832,715 Total 2,836,733 2,087,512 Fixed Rate (2) Nuevo Sol-denominated 6,713,636 4,326,899 Foreign Currency-denominated 7,770,009 3,237,601 Total 14,483,645 7,564,500 Total (1) US$ 17,320,378 US$ 9,652,012 (1) Net of unearned interest. (2) Most of the financial products with fixed rates can be switched to variable rates according to market conditions as specified on the contracts with clients. 77 Classification of the Loan Portfolio We classify BCP’s loan portfolio (which includes the loan portfolio of BCP Bolivia, Edyficar and Solucion EAH) and ASB’s loan portfolio in accordance with internal practices. According to these criteria, all loans and other credits are classified into one of four categories based upon the purpose of the loan. These categories are commercial, micro-business, consumer and residential mortgage. Commercial loans are generally those that finance the production and sale of goods and services, including commercial leases, as well as credit card debt on cards held by business entities. Micro-business loans, which are exclusively targeted for the production and sale of goods and services, are made to individuals or companies with no more than S/.300,000 in total loans received from the financial system (excluding mortgage loans). Consumer loans are generally loans granted to individuals, including credit card transactions, overdrafts on personal demand deposit accounts, leases, and financing goods or services not related to a business activity. Residential mortgage loans are all loans to individuals for the purchase, construction, remodeling, subdivision or improvement of the individual’s home, in each case backed by a mortgage. Mortgage loans made to directors and employees of a company are also considered residential mortgage loans. Mortgage-backed loans are considered commercial loans. The classification of the loan determines the amount to reserve should the borrower fail to make payments as they become due. The following table sets forth our loan portfolio by class at the date indicated. At December 31, 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (U.S. Dollars in thousands) (1) Commercial loans (which includes micro-business) US$6,055,206 US$7,808,671 US$ 8,283,790 US$ 10,417,764 US$ 12,360,362 Consumer loans 874,804 1,162,399 1,467,793 1,715,207 2,234,871 Residential mortgage loans 1,253,835 1,485,214 1,753,736 2,145,093 2,725,145 Total loans US$ 8,183,845 US$ 10,456,284 US$ 11,505,319 US$ 14,278,064 US$ 17,320,378 (1)Net of unearned interest. We employ a range of policies and practices to mitigate credit risk. Our most traditional practice is taking security for fund advances. We implement guidelines on the acceptability of specific classes of collateral or credit risk mitigation. The principal collateral types for loans and advances are mortgages over residential properties, liens over business assets (such as premises, inventory and accounts receivable), and liens over financial instruments (such as debt securities and equities). Long term finance and lending to corporate entities are generally secured, while revolving individual credit facilities are generally unsecured. In order to minimize credit loss, we seek additional collateral as soon as impairment indicators become apparent. We determine the appropriate collateral to hold as security for financial assets (other than loans) according to the nature of the instrument. Debt securities, treasury and other eligible bills are generally unsecured, with the exception of asset-backed securities and other similar instruments, which are secured by portfolios of financial instruments. Our management monitors the market value of collateral, requests additional collateral in accordance with the underlying agreement, and monitors the market value of the additional collateral obtained during its review of the allowance for impairment losses. Our policy is to dispose of repossessed properties in an orderly manner. We use the proceeds to reduce or repay the outstanding claim. In general, we do not use repossessed properties for our own business. Regulations promulgated by the SBS also require Peruvian banks to classify all loans into one of five categories depending upon each loan’s degree of risk of nonpayment. We review our loan portfolio on a continuing basis, while the SBS reviews our portfolio as it deems necessary or prudent. In compliance with SBS guidelines, we classify our loans based upon risk of nonpayment by assessing the following factors: (i) the payment history of the particular loans, (ii) the history of our dealings with the borrower, (iii) the borrower’s management, (iv) the borrower’s operating history, (v) the borrower’s repayment capability, (vi) the borrower’s availability of funds, (vii) the status of any collateral or guarantee, (viii) the borrower’s financial statements, (iv) the general risk of the sector in which the borrower operates, (x) the borrower’s risk classification made by other financial institutions and (xi) other relevant factors. The classification of the loan determines the amount of the required loan loss provision. 78 We classify our loan portfolio into one of five risk categories, depending upon the degree of risk of non-payment of each debtor. These categories are: (i) normal, (ii) potential problems, (iii) substandard, (iv) doubtful and (v) loss. The categories have the following characteristics: Normal (Class A): Debtors with commercial loans in this category have complied on a timely basis with their obligations under the loan. At the time of evaluation, there is no reason to doubt the debtor’s ability to repay interest and principal on the agreed dates, and there is no reason to believe that the status will change before the next evaluation. Before we place a loan in Class A, we must have a clear understanding of the use of the funds and the origin of the cash flows to be used by the debtor to repay the loan. Consumer loans are categorized as Class A when payments are current or up to eight days past due. Residential mortgage loans are categorized as Class A when payments are current or up to 30 days past due. Potential problems (Class B): Debtors with commercial loans in this category demonstrate certain deficiencies at the time of evaluation, which, if not corrected in a timely manner, imply risks regarding the recovery of the loan. Common characteristics of loans or credits in this category include: (i) delays in loan payments which are promptly covered, (ii) a general lack of information required to analyze the credit, (iii) out-of-date financial information, (iv) temporary economic or financial imbalances on the part of the debtor which could affect its ability to repay the loan, (v) market conditions that could affect the economic sector in which the debtor is active. Consumer loans are categorized as Class B when payments are between nine and 30 days past due. Residential mortgage loans are categorized as Class B when payments are between 31 and 90 days past due. Substandard (Class C): Debtors with commercial loans in this category demonstrate serious financial weakness. They often do not have sufficient operating results or available income to cover their financial obligations, and do not have reasonable short-term prospects for strengthening their financial capacity. Debtors demonstrating the same deficiencies that warrant Class B classification will warrant Class C classification if those deficiencies are such that if not corrected in the near term, they could impede the recovery of principal and interest on the loan on the agreed-upon terms. Commercial loans are classified in this category when payments are between 61 and 120 days past due. Consumer loans are categorized as Class C when payments are between 31 and 60 days past due. Residential mortgage loans are categorized as Class C when payments are between 91 and 120 days past due. Doubtful (Class D): Debtors with commercial loans in this category demonstrate characteristics that make it doubtful that the loan will be recovered. Although recovery is doubtful, if there is a reasonable possibility that the creditworthiness of the debtor might improve in the near future, it is appropriate to categorize the loan as Class D. These loans are distinguished from Class E loans by the requirement that the debtor remain in operation, generate cash flow, and make payments on the loan, even if the payments are less than those required by the contract. Commercial loans are categorized as Class D if payments are between 121 and 365 days past due. Consumer loans are categorized as Class D when payments are between 61 and 120 days past due. Residential mortgage loans are categorized as Class D when payments are between 121 and 365 days past due. Loss credits (Class E): Commercial loans or credits are categorized as Class E if the loans are considered unrecoverable or for any other reason the loans should not appear on our books as an asset based on the originally contracted terms. Commercial loans are categorized as Class E when payments are more than 365 days past due. Consumer loans are categorized as Class E when payments are more than 120 days past due. Residential mortgage loans are categorized as Class E when payments are more than 365 days past due. We continually review our loan portfolio to assess the completion and accuracy of the grades awarded. All loans considered impaired (those classified as substandard, doubtful or loss) are analyzed by management. Management will address the impairment in two areas, individually assessed allowances and collectively assessed allowances, as follows: 79 Individually Assessed Allowance We determine the appropriate allowances for each individually significant loan or advance on an individual basis. In determining the allowance, we consider items such as (i) the sustainability of the party’s business plan, (ii) its ability to improve performance once a financial difficulty has arisen, (iii) projected receipts and the expected dividend payout should bankruptcy ensue, (iv) the availability of other financial support and the potential realized value of collateral, and (v) the timing of the expected cash flows. Impairment losses are evaluated at each reporting date, unless unforeseen circumstances require more attention. Collectively Assessed Allowance We assess allowances collectively for (i) losses on loans and advances that are not individually significant (including consumer and residential mortgages) and (ii) individually significant loans and advances where there is not yet objective evidence of individual impairment (the Class A and B loans). We evaluate allowances on each reporting date, and each portfolio receives a separate review. Our collective assessment takes into account an impairment that is likely to be present in the portfolio even though there is no objective evidence of the impairment in an individual assessment. We estimate impairment losses by considering the following information: (i) historical losses on the portfolio, (ii) current economic conditions, (iii) the approximate delay between the time a loss is likely to be incurred and the time it will be identified as requiring an individually assessed impairment allowance and (iv) expected receipts and recoveries once the impairment occurs. Local management is responsible for deciding the appropriate length of time, which can extend as long as one year. The impairment allowance is then reviewed by credit management to ensure it aligns with our overall policy. We assess financial guarantees and letters of credit in the same way we assess loans. When the borrower is located in a country where there is an increased risk of difficulty servicing external debt, we assess the political and economic situation, and an additional country risk provision is provided. When we determine a loan is uncollectible, it is written off against the provision for loan impairment. We write off these loans after all necessary procedures are completed and the amount of the loss is determined. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off decrease the amount of the provision for loan impairment in our consolidated income statements. The following table shows our direct loan portfolio at the dates indicated: At December 31, 2007 2008 2009 (U.S. Dollars in thousands, except percentages) Level of Risk Classification Amount % Total Amount % Total Amount % Total A: Normal US$ 7,600,283 92.9% US$ 9,991,559 95.6% US$ 10,717,658 93.2% B: Potential Problems US$ 371,119 4.5% US$ 264,890 2.5% US$ 431,356 3.7% C: Substandard US$ 71,340 0.9% US$ 70,268 0.7% US$ 115,629 1.0% D: Doubtful US$ 88,540 1.1% US$ 79,394 0.8% US$ 139,389 1.2% E: Loss US$ 52,563 0.6% US$ 50,173 0.5% US$ 101,287 0.9% Total (1) US$ 8,183,845 100.0% US$ 10,456,284 100.0% US$ 11,505,319 100.0% C+D+E US$ 210,379 2.6% US$ 199,835 1.9% US$ 356,305 3.1% 80 At December 31, 2010 2011 (U.S. Dollars in thousands, except percentages) Level of Risk Classification Amount % Total Amount % Total A: Normal US$ 13,564,435 95.0% US$ 16,461,546 95.0% B: Potential Problems US$ 313,148 2.2% US$ 390,329 2.3% C: Substandard US$ 128,445 0.9% US$ 140,821 0.8% D: Doubtful US$ 121,345 0.8% US$ 156,525 0.9% E: Loss US$ 150,691 1.1% US$ 171,157 1.0% Total (1) US$ 14,278,064 100.0% US$ 17,320,378 100.0% C+D+E US$ 400,481 2.8% US$ 468,503 2.7% (1)Net of unearned interest – The unearned interest from impaired classifications (C+D+E) amounts approximately to US$201,000 in 2007, US$250,000 in 2008, US$44,000 in 2009, US$159,000 in 2010 and US$12,000 in 2011. All of our Class E loans and substantially all of our Class D loans are past due. Class C loans, although generally not past due, have demonstrated credit deterioration such that management has serious doubts as to the ability of the borrower to comply with the loan repayment terms. Our manufacturing sector loans are primarily secured by warrants and liens on goods or by mortgages, and our agricultural loans tend to be secured by trade bills and marketable securities. The Class C loans reflect the financial weakness of the individual borrower rather than any trend in the Peruvian manufacturing or agricultural industries in general. Classification of the Loan Portfolio Based on the Borrower’s Payment Performance We consider loans to be past due depending on their type. In accordance with SBS Resolution N°11356- 2008, BCP considers loans past due for corporate, large business and medium business loans after 15 days; for small and micro business loans after 30 days; and for consumer, mortgage and leasing loans after 90 days. On January 1, 2001, the SBS issued accounting rules that require Peruvian banks to consider overdrafts past due after 30 days. ASHC considers all overdue loans past due, except for consumer loans, which are considered past due when the scheduled principal and/or interest payments are overdue for more than 90 days. BCP Bolivia considers loans past due after 30 days. For IFRS 7 disclosure requirements on past-due loans, see Note 29.1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Interest income is suspended when the collection of loans is doubtful, such as when overdue by more than 90 days. When a borrower or securities issuer defaults earlier than 90 days, the income is excluded from interest income until it is received. Uncollected income on these loans is applied against income. When management determines that the debtor’s financial condition has improved (a debtor’s financial condition is only considered improved once the debtor has already paid the principal and interest due on its loans), we continue recording interest on an accrual basis. Therefore, we do not accrue interest on past-due loans, but interest on past-due loans is recognized only when and to the extent received. Over the past five years, we have recognized interest income on these loans of US$3.6 million in 2007, US$5.2 million in 2008, US$7.2 million in 2009, US$14.2 million in 2010 and US$15.4 million in 2011. With the exception of discounted notes and overdrafts, accrued but unpaid interest is reversed for past-due loans. The following table sets forth the repayment status of our loan portfolio as of the date indicated. 81 At December 31, 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (U.S. Dollars in thousands, except percentages) Current US$ 8,122,357 US$ 10,373,417 US$ 11,320,752 US$ 14,068,156 US$ 17,061,328 Past due: Overdue 16 - 119 days 20,825 34,955 70,602 68,601 91,653 Overdue 120 days or more 40,663 47,912 113,965 141,307 167,397 Subtotal US$ 61,488 US$ 82,867 US$ 184,567 US$ 209,908 US$ 259,050 Total loans US$ 8,183,845 US$ 10,456,284 US$ 11,505,319 US$ 14,278,064 US$ 17,320,378 Past-due loan amounts as % of total loans 0.75% 0.79% 1.60% 1.47% 1.50% With respect to consumer, mortgage and leasing loans, BCP (in accordance with SBS regulations) only recognizes payments as past-due installments if the loan is less than 90 days past due. The entire amount of the loans is considered past due if any amount is past due more than 90 days. For IFRS 7 disclosure requirements on past-due loans, see Note 29.1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Past-Due Loan Portfolio The following table analyzes our past-due loan portfolio by the type of loan at the dates indicated. At December 31, 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (U.S. Dollars in thousands) Past-due loan amounts: Loans US$ 48,088 US$ 65,947 US$ 153,112 US$ 183,058 US$ 222,133 Discounted notes 636 1,242 2,151 2,906 2,944 Advances and overdrafts in demand deposits 3,974 2,112 4,015 3,717 2,576 Leasing transactions 2,110 3,468 9,653 1,443 8,127 Refinanced loans 6,680 10,098 15,636 18,784 23,270 Total past-due portfolio US$ 61,488 US$ 82,867 US$ 184,567 US$ 209,908 US$ 259,050 Less: Reserves for loan losses (1) US$ 229,700 US$ 248,063 US$ 376,049 US$ 448,597 US$ 558,186 Total past-due portfolio net of reserves US$ (168,212) US$ (165,196) US$ (191,482) US$ (238,689) US$ (299,136) (1)Includes reserves for indirect credits (see “—Loan Loss Reserves”). We recognize interest on past-due loans and loans in legal collection when the loans are collected. The interest income that would have been recorded for these credits in accordance with the terms of the original contract is approximately US$49.8 million and US$38.5 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Loan Loss Reserves The following table shows the changes in our reserves for loan losses and movements at the dates indicated. Year ended December 31, 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (U.S. Dollars in thousands) Reserves for loan losses at the beginning of the year US$ 210,586 US$ 229,700 US$ 248,063 US$ 376,049 US$ 448,597 Additional provisions (reversals) 28,439 48,760 163,392 174,682 214,898 Acquisitions and transfers - - 20,905 - - Recoveries of write-offs 34,084 31,279 23,928 34,605 41,442 Write-offs (47,266) (59,308) (87,927) (142,736) (155,409) Monetary correction and other 3,857 (2,368) 7,688 5,997 8,658 Total reserves for loan losses at the end of the year US$ 229,700 US$ 248,063 US$ 376,049 US$ 448,597 US$ 558,186 82 For a discussion of the risk elements in the loan portfolio and the factors considered in determining the amount of specific reserves, See “—Classification of the Loan Portfolio.” The balance of the reserve for loan losses for the years 2008, 2009 and 2010 are included in Note 6(d) to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our reserves for loan losses, as of December 31, 2011, included US$519.7 million for credit losses and US$38.5 million for indirect or contingent credit losses (US$415.7 million and US$32.9 million as of December 31, 2010, respectively). Our reserves for indirect credit losses are included in the “Other liabilities” caption of our consolidated balance sheet. See Notes 6(d) and 11(a) to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The charge-off process is performed with prior approval of our board of directors and the SBS. Potential charge-offs are considered by the board of directors and the SBS on a case-by-case basis. Allocation of Loan Loss Reserves The following table sets forth the amounts of our reserves for loan losses attributable to commercial, consumer and residential mortgage loans at the dates indicated (see also Note 6(d) to the Consolidated Financial Statements): At December 31, 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (U.S. Dollars in thousands) Commercial loans US$ 184,584 US$ 161,170 US$ 243,796 US$ 289,564 US$ 357,422 Consumer loans 30,662 56,061 90,782 106,709 135,335 Residential mortgage loans 14,454 30,832 41,471 52,324 65,429 Total reserves US$ 229,700 US$ 248,063 US$ 376,049 US$ 448,597 US$ 558,186 (iv)Deposits The following table presents the components of our deposit base at the dates indicated: At December 31, 2009 2010 2011 (U.S. Dollars in thousands) Demand deposits: Nuevo Sol-denominated US$ 1,944,404 US$ 2,330,559 US$ 2,717,017 Foreign Currency-denominated 2,612,342 3,250,833 3,897,470 Total US$ 4,556,746 US$ 5,581,392 US$ 6,614,487 Savings deposits: Nuevo Sol-denominated US$ 1,505,994 US$ 2,050,136 US$ 2,616,314 Foreign Currency-denominated 2,033,671 2,194,614 2,480,195 Total US$ 3,539,665 US$ 4,244,750 US$ 5,096,509 Time deposits: Nuevo Sol-denominated US$ 1,662,941 US$ 3,230,374 US$ 2,626,015 Foreign Currency-denominated 3,088,920 3,234,395 2,413,526 Total US$ 4,751,861 US$ 6,464,769 US$ 5,039,541 Foreign Currency Bank Certificates Foreign Currency-denominated US$ 114,401 US$ 163,681 US$ 136,338 Severance Indemnity Deposits (CTS): Nuevo Sol-denominated US$ 256,761 US$ 421,240 US$ 729,009 Foreign Currency-denominated 812,745 891,882 1,028,115 Total US$ 1,069,506 US$ 1,313,122 US$ 1,757,124 Total deposits: Nuevo Sol-denominated US$ 5,370,100 US$ 8,032,309 US$ 8,688,355 Foreign Currency-denominated 8,662,079 9,735,405 9,955,644 Total US$ 14,032,179 US$ 17,767,714 US$ 18,643,999 83 The following table sets forth information regarding the maturity of our time deposits in denominations of US$100,000 or more on December 31, 2011: At December 31, 2011 (U.S. Dollars in thousands) Certificates of deposit: Maturing within 30 days US$ 5,578 Maturing after 30 but within 60 days 127 Maturing after 60 but within 90 days 3,622 Maturing after 90 but within 180 days 1,823 Maturing after 180 but within 360 days 102 Maturing after 360 days 23,292 Total certificates of deposits US$ 34,544 Time deposits: Maturing within 30 days US$ 2,165,898 Maturing after 30 but within 60 days 376,106 Maturing after 60 but within 90 days 167,856 Maturing after 90 but within 180 days 307,101 Maturing after 180 but within 360 days 873,684 Maturing after 360 days 409,553 Total time deposits 4,300,198 Total US$ 4,334,742 (v)Return on Equity and Assets At December 31, 2009 2010 2011 Return on assets (1) 2.19% 2.27% 2.40% Return on equity (2) 23.72% 21.29% 22.94% Dividend payout ratio (3) 28.86% 27.12% 25.75% Equity to assets ratio (4) 10.00% 11.19% 10.70% Shareholders’ equity to assets ratio (5) 9.31% 10.56% 10.50% (1)Net income attributable to our equity holders as a percentage of average total assets, computed as the average of period beginning and period ending balances. (2)Net income attributable to our equity holders as a percentage of average net equity attributable to our equity holders, computed as the average of monthly balances. (3)Dividends declared per share divided by net income attributable to our equity holders per share. 84 (4)Average equity attributable to our equity holders divided by average total assets, both averages computed as the average of month-ending balances. (5)Average equity attributable to our equity shareholders divided by average total assets, both averages computed as the average of month-ending balances. (vi)Short-Term Borrowing Our short-term borrowing, other than deposits, amounted to US$673.2 million and US$351.8 million and US$762.9 million as of December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. Our average balances of borrowed amounts decreased in 2010 due to receiving lower promotional credit lines and increased in 2011 as a result of growth in foreign trade transactions. As of December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, no BCRP-Repo transactions exist in the outstanding balance. The following table sets forth our short-term borrowing: At December 31, 2009 2010 2011 (U.S. Dollars in thousands, except percentages) Year-end balance US$ 673,234 US$ 351,816 US$ 762,910 Average balance 641,177 808,548 1,076,989 Maximum quarter-end balance 1,141,131 1,202,594 1,701,877 Weighted-average nominal year-end interest rate 2.83% 1.43% 1.68% Weighted-average nominal interest rate 3.40% 1.14% 1.51% (C)Organizational Structure The following tables show our organizational structure and the organization of our principal subsidiaries as of December 31, 2011 and their relative percentage contribution to our total assets, total revenues, net income and net equity at the same date: 85 As of and for the Year ended December 31, 2011 (1) Total Assets Total Revenue Net Income (Loss) Net Equity Banco de Crédito del Perú 87.4% 68.8% 75.2% 69.3% Atlantic Security Holding Corporation 4.8% 6.3% 10.8% 6.6% El Pacífico-Peruano Suiza Compañía de Seguros y Reaseguros (2) 6.8% 20.0% 10.4% 13.3% Prima AFP 0.8% 3.1% 4.1% 4.7% Others (3) 0.2% 1.8% -0.5% 6.1% (1)Percentages determined based on the Consolidated Financial Statements. (2)Includes Grupo Pacífico, Pacífico Vida and Pacífico EPS Consolidated. (3)Includes Credicorp Ltd., CCR Inc., Credicorp Securities Inc. and others. The following tables show the organizational structure of BCP and its principal subsidiaries as of December 31, 2011: 86 We hold an additional 4.08% stake of BCP Bolivia directly through Credicorp Ltd. As of and for the Year ended December 31, 2011 (1) Total Assets Total Revenue Net Income (Loss) Net Equity Banco de Crédito del Perú 92.3% 88.6% 85.3% 81.9% Banco de Crédito de Bolivia 4.3% 3.6% 3.9% 4.5% Empresa Financiera Edyficar S.A. 2.1% 5.5% 4.6% 3.3% Solución Empresa Administradora Hipotecaria S.A. 0.3% 0.3% 0.7% 0.6% Credifondo S.A. 0.1% 1.3% 3.6% 1.3% Credibolsa Sociedad Agente de Bolsa S.A. 0.1% 0.5% 1.0% 0.8% Others (2) 0.8% 0.2% 0.9% 7.6% (1)Percentages determined based on BCP’s consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2010. (2)Includes Creditítulos S.A., Inmobiliaria BCP, Inversiones BCP Ltd and others. (D)Property, Plants and Equipment As of December 31, 2011, we owned 197 properties (191 throughout Peru and 6 in Bolivia) and rented 467 properties (424 throughout Peru, 40 in Bolivia, 1 in Miami – United States and 2 in Panama), all of which we used for the operation of our network of branches and our business. We own the buildings where our headquarters are located in Lima- Peru and La Paz – Bolivia. We do not hold any lease agreement for these purposes. As of December 2011, we had 564 branches, of which 344 were branches of BCP in Peru. There are no material encumbrances on any of our properties. ITEM 4A.UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 5.OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW AND PROSPECTS (A)Operating Results (1)Critical Accounting Policies Consolidation (i)Subsidiaries Our subsidiaries are entities (including special purpose entities) for which the Group has the power to govern financial and operating policies. Such power is generally evidenced by our control of more than one half of the voting rights. 87 The financial statements of our subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which effective control is transferred to the Group and are no longer consolidated from the date control ceases. The consolidated financial statements include the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of Credicorp and its Subsidiaries. Transactions between the Group’s entities, including balances, gains or losses are eliminated. Business combinations made after January 1, 2010 are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the fair value of consideration transferred (measured at the acquisition date) and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree. For each business combination, the acquirer measures the noncontrolling interest in the acquiree at fair value. Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and included in the caption “Administrative expenses” of the consolidated statement of income. When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date. This includes the separation of embedded derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree. Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer is recognized at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the fair value of any contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset or liability, will be recognized either in profit or loss or as a change to other comprehensive income. If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it will not be remeasured until it is finally settled. Business combinations prior to January 1, 2010, in comparison to the above-mentioned requirements, were accounted for using the purchase method. Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition formed part of the acquisition costs. The non-controlling interest (formerly known as minority interest) was measured at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. Contingent consideration was recognized if, and only if, the Group had a present obligation, the economic outflow was more likely than not and a reliable estimate was determinable. Subsequent adjustments to the contingent consideration were recognized as part of goodwill. Assets in custody or managed by the Group, such as investment funds and private pension funds (AFP funds), are not part of the Group’s consolidated financial statements. Net equity attributable to the non-controlling interest is presented in the consolidated statements of financial position. Income attributable to the non-controlling interest is presented separately in the consolidated income statements and the consolidated statements of comprehensive income. Acquisitions of non-controlling interest prior to January 1, 2010, were accounted for using the parent entity extension method, whereby, the difference between the consideration and the book value of the share of the net assets acquired were recognized in goodwill. Acquisitions of non-controlling interest starting January1, 2010, are recorded directly in equity; the difference between the amounts paid and the share of the net assets acquired is a debit or credit to equity. Therefore, no additional goodwill is recorded upon purchase of non-controlling interest and no additional gain or loss is recognized upon disposal of a non-controlling interest. 88 (ii)Associates An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence but not control. Investments in these entities represent holdings of between 20 and 50 percent of the voting rights; and are recognized initially at cost and then are accounted for by the “equity method”. The Group does not have significant investments in associates; therefore, they are included in the caption “Other assets” in the consolidated statements of financial position; gains resulting from the use of the equity method of accounting are included in the caption “Other income” of the consolidated income statement. Foreign currency translation Credicorp’s functional and presentation currency is the United States Dollar (U.S. Dollar or US$) because it reflects the economic substance of the underlying events and circumstances relevant to the Company. In addition, Credicorp’s main operations and transactions in the different countries where it operates are established and settled in U.S. Dollars. Financial statements of each of Credicorp’s subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the country in which each entity operates and converted into U.S. Dollars (functional and presentation currency) as follows: •Monetary assets and liabilities are converted at the free market exchange rate at the date of the consolidated statements of financial position. •Non-monetary accounts are converted at the free market exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction. •Income and expenses, except for those related to non-monetary assets which are converted at the free market exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction, are converted monthly at the average monthly exchange rate. All resulting conversion differences are recognized in the consolidated income statement. Income and expense recognition from banking activities Interest income and expense for all interest-bearing financial instruments, including those related to financial instruments classified as held for trading or designated at fair value through profit or loss, are recognized within “Interest and dividend income” and “Interest expense” in the consolidated income statement using the effective interest rate, which is the rate that discounts estimated future cash payments or receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument or a shorter period, where appropriate, to the net carrying amount of the financial asset or financial liability. Interest income is suspended when collection of loans become doubtful, when loans are overdue more than 90 days or when the borrower or securities issuer defaults; if earlier than 90 days, such income is excluded from interest income until collected. Uncollected income on such loans is provisioned. When management determines that the debtor’s financial condition has improved, the recording of interest thereon is reestablished on an accrual basis. A debtor’s financial condition is only considered improved once the debtor has already paid the principal and interest due on its loans. Interest income includes coupons earned on fixed income investment and trading securities and the accrued discount and premium on financial instruments. Dividends are recognized as income when they are declared. Fees and commission income are recognized on an accrual basis when earned. Contingent credit fees for loans that are likely to be drawn down and other credit related fees are deferred (together with any direct incremental costs) and recognized as an adjustment to the effective interest rate on the loan. All other revenues and expenses are recognized on an accrual basis. 89 Insurance activities Insurance contracts are those contracts where the Group (the insurer) has accepted significant insurance risk from another party (the policyholder) by agreeing to compensate the policyholder if a specified uncertain future event (the insured event) adversely affects the policyholder. This definition also includes reinsurance contracts that the Group holds. As a general guideline, the Group determines whether it has significant insurance risk by comparing benefits paid with benefits payable if the insured event did not occur. Insurance contracts can also transfer financial risk. Once a contract has been classified as an insurance contract, it remains an insurance contract for the remainder of its lifetime, even if the insurance risk reduces significantly during this period, unless all rights and obligations extinguish or expire. The Group cedes insurance risk in the normal course of business for all of its operations. Reinsurance assets represent balances due from reinsurance companies. Reinsurance ceded is placed on both a proportional and non–proportional basis. Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent with the outstanding claims provision or settled claims and ceded premiums associated with the reinsurer’s policies and are in accordance with the related reinsurance contract. Reinsurance assets are reviewed for impairment at each reporting date or more frequently when an indication of impairment arises during the reporting year. Impairment occurs when there is objective evidence as a result of an event that occurred after initial recognition of the reinsurance asset that the Group may not receive all outstanding amounts due under the terms of the contract and the event has a reliably measureable impact on the amounts that the Group will receive from the reinsurer. The impairment loss is recorded in the consolidated income statement. Ceded reinsurance arrangements do not relieve the Group from its obligations to a policyholder. The Group also assumes reinsurance risk in the normal course of business for non-life insurance contracts when applicable. Premiums and claims on assumed reinsurance are recognized as revenue or expenses in the same manner as they would be if the reinsurance were considered direct business, taking into account the product classification of the reinsured business. Reinsurance liabilities represent balances due to reinsurance companies. Amounts payable are estimated in a manner consistent with the related reinsurance contract Financial Instruments: Initial recognition and subsequent measurement: The Group classifies its financial instruments in one of the categories defined by IAS 39: financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss; loans and receivables; available-for-sale financial investments and other financial liabilities. The Group determines the classification of its financial instruments at initial recognition. The classification of financial instruments at initial recognition depends on the purpose and the Management intention for which the financial instruments were acquired and their characteristics. All financial instruments are measured initially at their fair value plus any directly attributable incremental cost of acquisition or issue, except in the case of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded at fair value through profit or loss. Purchases or sales of financial assets that require delivery of assets within a time frame established by regulation or convention in the marketplace (regular way trades) are recognized on the trade date, for example the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset. Derivatives are recognized on a trade date basis. 90 (i)Financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss includes financial assets held for trading and financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss, which designation is upon initial recognition and in an instrument by instrument basis. Derivatives financial instrument are also categorized as held for trading unless they are designated as hedging instruments. Financial assets are classified as held for trading if they are acquired for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near term, and are presented in the caption “Trading securities” of the consolidated statements of financial position. Management may only designate an instrument at fair value through profit or loss upon initial recognition when the following criteria are met: •the designation eliminates or significantly reduces the inconsistent treatment that would otherwise arise from measuring assets or liabilities or recognizing gains or losses on them on a different basis; or •the assets and liabilities are part of a group of financial assets, financial liabilities or both which are managed and their performance evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with a documented risk management or investment strategy; or •the financial instrument contains one or more embedded derivatives, which significantly modify the cash flows that otherwise would be required by the contract. Changes in fair value of designated financial assets through profit or loss are recorded in the consolidated income statement caption “Net gain on financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value through profit and loss”. Interest earned or incurred is accrued in the consolidated income statement in the captions “Interest and dividend income” or “Interest expense”, respectively, according to the terms of the contract. Dividend income is recorded when the collection right has been established. (ii)Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, other than those that the entity intend to sell immediately or in the short term, those that the entity upon initial recognition designates as available for sale, or those for which the holder may not recover substantially all of its initial investment, other than because of credit deterioration. After initial measurement, loans and receivables are subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest rate method, less any allowance for impairment. Amortized cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees and costs that are an integral part of the effective interest rate. The effective interest rate amortization is recognized in the consolidated income statement in the caption “Interest and dividend income”. Losses from impairment are recognized in the consolidated income statement in the caption “Provision for loan losses”. Direct loans are recorded when disbursement of funds to the clients are made. Indirect (off-balance sheet) loans are recorded when documents supporting such facilities are issued. Likewise, Credicorp considers as refinanced or restructured those loans that change their payment schedules due to difficulties in the debtor’s ability to repay the loan. An allowance for loan losses is established if there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original contractual terms of the loans. The allowance for loan losses is established based on an internal risk classification, with consideration given to any guarantees and collaterals received. See Note 3(i) and 29.1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 91 (iii)Available-for-sale financial investments Available-for-sale financial investments are non-derivative financial assets that are designated as available-for-sale (to be held for an indefinite period, which may be sold in response to liquidity needs or changes in the interest rates, exchange rates or equity price); or are not classified as (a) financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, (b) held-to-maturity or (c) loans and receivables. After initial recognition, available-for-sale financial investments are measured at fair value with unrealized gains or losses recognized as other comprehensive income in the available-for-sale reserve, net of its corresponding deferred tax and non-controlling interest, until the investment is derecognized, at which time the cumulative gain or loss is recognized in the consolidated income statement in the caption “Net gain on sale of securities”, or determined to be impaired, at which time the impaired amount is recognized in the consolidated income statement in the caption “Impairment loss on available–for–sale investments” and removed from the available-for-sale reserve. Interest and dividends earned are recognized in the consolidated income statement in the caption “Interest and dividend income”. Interest earned is reported as interest income using the effective interest rate and dividends earned are recognized when collection rights are established. Estimated fair values are based primarily on quoted prices or, if quoted market prices are not available, discounted expected cash flows using market rates commensurate with the credit quality and maturity of the investment. The Group may elect to reclassify these financial assets only in rare circumstances, such as when the Group is unable to sell the assets due to markets inactivity and management’s intent to sell the assets in the foreseeable future has changed significantly. Reclassification to loans and receivables is permitted when the financial asset meets the definition of loans and receivables and management has the intent and the ability to hold these assets for the foreseeable future or until maturity. The reclassification to held to maturity category is permitted only when the entity has the ability and intent to hold the financial asset until maturity. As of December, 31, 2011 and 2010, we did not reclassify any of our available-for-sale financial investments. (iv)Other financial liabilities After initial measurement, other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest rate method. Amortized cost includes any issuance discount or premium and costs that are an integral part of the effective interest rate. De-recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities Financial assets: A financial asset (or, where applicable a part of a financial asset or a part of a group of similar financial assets) is derecognized when: (i) the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired; or (ii) the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset or has assumed an obligation to pay the received cash flows in full without material delay to a third party under a “pass-through” arrangement; and either the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or the Group has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset. 92 Financial liabilities: A financial liability is derecognized when the obligation under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires. When an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, any resulting difference in the respective carrying amount is recognized as profit or loss. Offsetting financial instruments: Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the consolidated statements of financial position when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognized amounts and management has the intention to settle on a net basis, or realize the assets and settle the liability simultaneously. Impairment of financial assets: We assess at each date of the consolidated statements of financial position whether there is any objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired. A financial asset or a group of financial assets is deemed to be impaired if, and only if, there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that have occurred after the initial recognition of the asset (an incurred loss event) and such loss event(s) has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or the group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated. Evidence of impairment may include indications that the borrower or a group of borrowers is experiencing significant financial difficulty, default or delinquency in interest or principal payments, the probability that they will go bankrupt or other legal financial reorganization process and where observable data indicate that there is a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flows, such as changes in arrears or economic conditions that correlate with defaults. Criteria used for each category of financial assets are as follows: (i)Loans and receivables For loans and receivables that are carried at amortized cost, the Group first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists for financial assets that are individually significant, or collectively, for financial assets that are not individually significant. If the Group determines that no objective evidence of impairment exists for an individually assessed financial asset, whether significant or not, it includes the asset in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and collectively assesses them for impairment. Assets that are individually assessed for impairment and for which an impairment loss is recognized, or continues to be recognized, are not included in a collective assessment of impairment. If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the asset carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows (excluding future expected credit losses that have not yet been incurred). The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account and the amount of the loss is recognized in the consolidated income statement. Interest income, if applicable, is accrued on the reduced carrying amount based on the original effective interest rate of the asset. Loans, together with the associated allowance, are written off when there is no realistic prospect of future recovery and all collateral has been realized or has been transferred to the Group. If in any subsequent year, the amount of the estimated impairment loss increases or decreases because an event occurring after the impairment was recognized, the previously recognized impairment loss is increased or reduced by adjusting the allowance account. If in the future a write-off is later recovered, the recovery is recognized in the consolidated income statement, as a credit to the caption “Provision for loan losses”. The present value of the estimated future cash flows is discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate. If a loan has a variable interest rate, the discount rate for measuring any impairment loss is the current effective interest rate. The calculation of the present value of the estimated future cash flows of a collateralized financial asset reflects the cash flows that may result from foreclosure less costs for obtaining and selling the collateral, whether or not foreclosure is probable. 93 For a collective evaluation impairment, financial assets are grouped considering the Group’s internal credit grading system, which considers credit risk characteristics for example: asset type, industry, geographical location, collateral type, past-due status and other relevant factors. Future cash flows from a group of financial assets that are collectively evaluated for impairment are estimated on the basis of historical loss experience for assets with similar credit risk characteristics to those in the group. Historical loss experience is adjusted on the basis of current observable data to reflect the effects of current conditions that did not affect the years on which the historical loss experience is based and to remove the effects of conditions in the historical period that do not currently exists. The methodology and assumptions used are reviewed regularly to reduce any differences between loss estimates and actual loss experience. (ii)Available-for-sale financial investments For available-for-sale financial investments, the Group assesses, at each date of the consolidated statements of financial position, whether there is objective evidence that an investment or a group of investments is impaired. In the case of equity investments, objective evidence would include a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the investment below its cost. “Significant” is evaluated against the original cost of the investment and “prolonged” against the period in which the fair value has been below its original cost. Where there is evidence of impairment, the cumulative loss (measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any previously recognized impairment loss) is removed from the investments available-for-sale reserve of the consolidated statement of changes in equity and recognized in the consolidated income statement. Impairment losses on equity investments are not reversed through the consolidated income statement; increases in their fair value after impairment are recognized directly in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income. In the case of debt instruments, impairment is assessed based on the same criteria as financial assets carried at amortized cost (loans and receivables). However, the amount recorded for impairment is the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the amortized cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that investment previously recognized in the consolidated income statement. Future interest income is based on the reduced carrying amount and is accrued using the interest rate used to discount the future cash flows for the purpose of measuring the impairment loss. Interest income is recorded as part of the “Interest and dividend income” portion of the consolidated income statement. If in a subsequent year, the fair value of a debt instrument increases and the increase is objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognized in the consolidated income statement, the impairment loss will be reversed through the consolidated income statement. (iii)Renegotiated loans When a loan is modified, it is no longer considered as past due but it maintains its previous classification as impaired or not impaired. If the debtor complies with the new agreement during the following six months, and an analysis of its payment capacity supports a new improved risk classification, it is classified as not impaired. If subsequent to the loan modification the debtor fails to comply with the new agreement, it will be considered impaired and past due. Goodwill: Goodwill represents the excess of the acquisition cost of a subsidiary over the fair value of the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment to assess whether the carrying amount is fully recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount. Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for impairment testing purposes. 94 Impairment of non-financial assets: The Group assesses at each reporting date, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances warrant, whether the carrying value of non-financial assets may be impaired. If any indication of impairment exists, the Group estimates the asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s or cash generating unit’s (CGU) fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment. Where the carrying amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset (or cash-generating unit) is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. For non-financial assets, excluding goodwill, an assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognized impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased. If such indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated. A previously recognized impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognized; if that is the case, the reversal is limited so that the carrying amount of the asset neither exceeds its recoverable amount, nor exceeds the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognized for the asset in prior years. Such reversal is recognized in the income statement. Impairment losses relating to goodwill cannot be reversed for subsequent increases in its recoverable amount in future periods. Due from customers on acceptances: Due from customers on acceptances corresponds to accounts receivable from customers for import and export transactions, whose obligations have been accepted by the Group. The obligations that must be assumed by the Group for such transactions are recorded as liabilities Financial guarantees: In the ordinary course of business, the Group grants financial guarantees, such as letters of credit, guarantees and acceptances. Financial guarantees are initially recognized at fair value (which is equivalent at that moment to the fee received) as “Other liabilities” in the consolidated statements of financial position. Subsequent to initial recognition, the Group’s liability under each guarantee is measured as the higher of the amortized fee and the best estimate of expenditure required to settle any financial obligation arising as a result of the financial guarantee. Any increase in the liability relating to a financial guarantee is included in the consolidated statement of income. The fee received is recognized in the consolidated statement of income in the caption “Banking services”. Provisions: Provisions are recognized when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow or resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. The expense relating to any provision is presented in the consolidated income statement net of any reimbursement. If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, where appropriate, the specific risks of the liability. Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognized as a finance cost 95 Contingencies: Contingent liabilities are not recognized in the consolidated financial statements. They are disclosed in notes, unless the probability of an outflow of resources is remote. Share-based payment transactions (i)Cash-settled transactions As explained in note 18(a) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we granted a supplementary remuneration plan to certain employees who had at least one year of service with Credicorp or any of its Subsidiaries, in the form of stock appreciation rights (SARs) over a certain number of Credicorp shares. SARs were granted at a fixed price and are exercisable at that price, allowing the employee to obtain a gain in cash (“cash-settled transaction”) arising from the difference between the fixed exercise price and the market price at the date the SARs are executed. The SARs fair value is expensed over the period up to the vesting date, with recognition of a corresponding liability. The liability is rerecorded to fair value at each reporting date up to and including the settlement date, with changes in fair value are recognized in the consolidated income statement under the caption “Salaries and employee benefits”. When the price or terms of the SARs are modified, any additional expense is also recorded in the consolidated income statement. See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (ii)Equity-settled transactions As explain in note 18(b) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, as of April 2009, a new supplementary remuneration plan was implemented to replace the SARs plan. The cost of this equity-settled plan is recognized, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the service conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award (“the vesting date”). The cumulative expense recognized for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Group’s best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. The expense is recorded in the consolidated income statement under the caption “Salaries and employees benefits”. When the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, the minimum expense recognized under the “Salaries and employees benefits” caption in the consolidated income statement is the expense as if the terms had not been modified. An additional expense is recognized for any modification which increases the total fair value of the share-based payment arrangement, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee as measured at the date of modification. The dilutive effect of outstanding stock awards is reflected as a share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share. 96 Derivative financial instruments: Trading: Part of transactions with derivatives while providing effective economic hedges under Group’s risk management positions, do not qualify for hedge accounting under the specific rules of IAS 39 and are, therefore, treated as trading derivatives. Derivative financial instruments are initially recognized in the consolidated statements of financial position at cost and subsequently are re-measured at their fair value. Fair values are estimated based on the market exchange and interest rates. All derivatives are carried as assets when fair value is positive and as liabilities when fair value is negative. Gain and losses for changes in their fair value are recorded in the consolidated income statement. Hedge: We use derivative instruments to manage exposures to interest rate and foreign currency. In order to manage particular risks, the Group applies hedge accounting for transactions which meet the specified criteria. Also, at the inception of the hedge relationship, a formal assessment is undertaken to ensure the hedging instrument is expected to be highly effective in offsetting the designated risk in the hedged item. Hedges are formally assessed at each reporting date. A hedge is regarded as highly effective if changes in fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk during the period for which the hedge is designated is expected to offset in a range between 80 percent and 125 percent. The accounting treatment is established according to the nature of the hedged item and compliance with the hedge criteria (i)Cash flow hedges The effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognized directly as other comprehensive income in the cash flow hedge reserve, while any ineffective portion is recognized immediately in the consolidated income statement as finance costs. Amounts recognized as other comprehensive income are transferred to the consolidated income statement when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as when the hedged financial income or financial expense is recognized or when a forecast sale occurs. If the forecast transaction or firm commitment is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognized in the cash flow hedge reserve are transferred to the consolidated income statement. If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, any cumulative gain or loss previously recognized in the cash flow hedge reserve remains in the cash flow hedge reserve until the forecast transaction or firm commitment affects profit or loss (ii)Fair value hedges The change in the fair value of an interest rate hedging derivative is recognized in the consolidated income statement in finance costs. The change in the fair value of the hedged item attributable to the risk hedged is recorded as a part of the carrying value of the hedged item and is also recognized in the consolidated income statement in finance costs. 97 For fair value hedges relating to consolidated items carried at amortized cost, the adjustment to carrying value is amortized through the consolidated income statement over the remaining maturity term. Effective interest rate amortization may begin as soon as an adjustment exists and shall begin no later than when the hedged item ceases to be adjusted for changes in its fair value attributable to the risk being hedged. If the hedged item is derecognized, the unamortized fair value is recognized immediately in the consolidated income statement. When an unrecognized firm commitment is designated as a hedged item, the subsequent cumulative change in the fair value of the firm commitment attributable to the hedged risk is recognized as an asset or liability with a corresponding gain or loss recognized in the consolidated income statement. Embedded derivates: Derivatives embedded in host contracts are accounted for as separate derivatives and recorded at fair value if their economic characteristics and risks are not closely related to those of the host contracts, and the host contracts are not held for trading or designated at fair value through profit or loss. The Group has certificates indexed to the price of Credicorp Ltd. shares that will be settled in cash, and investments indexed to certain life insurance contracts liabilities, denominated “Unit Linked”. These instruments were classified at inception by the Group as “Financial instruments at fair value though profit or loss”. See 3(f)(i), and note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Fiduciary activities, management of funds and pension funds: The Group provides custody, trustee, investment management and advisory services to third parties that result in the holding of assets on their behalf. These assets and income arising thereon are excluded from these consolidated financial statements, as they are not assets of the Group. Commissions generated for these activities are included in the caption “Other income” of the consolidated income statements. (2)Historical Discussion and Analysis The Group monitors the results of its operating segments separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment. Regarding the Group’s segments, total revenues from banking segment amounted to 74% or more of the Group’s total revenue in 2011, 2010, and 2009; therefore, the following historical discussion and analysis is presented principally for banking segment, except when otherwise indicated, and is based upon information contained in our Consolidated Financial Statements and should be read in conjunction therewith. The discussion in this section regarding interest rates is based on nominal interest rates. The financial information and discussion and analysis presented below for 2009, 2010 and 2011 reflect the financial position and results of operations for 2009, 2010 and 2011 of our subsidiaries. See “Item 3. Key Information—(A) Selected Financial Data.” On December 31, 2011, approximately 53.4% of our deposits and 57.0% of our loans were U.S. Dollar-denominated. Despite these high proportions, U.S. Dollar-denominated deposits have decreased from the previous year (55.4% in 2010) due to the appreciation of the Nuevo Sol, which encourages clients to maintain deposits in domestic currency. 98 Results of Operations for the Three Years Ended December 31, 2011 The following table sets forth, for the years 2009, 2010 and 2011, the principal components of our net income: Year ended December 31, 2009 2010 2011 (U.S. Dollars in thousands) Interest income US$ 1,312,925 US$ 1,471,708 US$ 1,837,764 Interest expense (420,564) (414,121) (531,600) Net interest income US$ 892,361 US$ 1,057,587 US$ 1,306,164 Provision for loan losses (163,392) (174,682) (214,898) Net interest income after Provision US$ 728,969 US$ 882,905 US$ 1,091,266 Noninterest income 720,631 804,535 838,636 Insurance premiums earned net of claims on insurance activities 138,224 164,721 196,664 Other expenses (957,110) (1,085,885) (1,230,149) Income before translation result and income tax US$ 630,714 US$ 766,276 US$ 896,417 Translation result (loss) gain US$ 12,222 US$ 24,120 US$ 37,881 Income tax (138,500) (187,081) (210,508) Net income US$ 504,436 US$ 603,315 US$ 723,790 Net income attributable to: Equity holders 469,785 571,302 709,272 Minority interests 34,651 32,013 14,518 Net income US$ 504,436 US$ 603,315 US$ 723,790 Our net income increased from 2010 to 2011 primarily due to increased interest income of approximately US$366.1 million, net of an increase in interest expense of US$117.5 million and other expenses of US$144.3 million. Net income attributable to our equity holders increased from US$571.3 million in 2010 to US$709.3 million in 2011, which represented an increase of 24.2% from 2010 to 2011, primarily due to an increase in interest income. On the other hand, other expenses increased 13.3% in 2011 to US$1,230.1 million, primarily due to an increase in administrative cost of US$64.2 million, or 18.8%, and a net loss on our sale of US$24.6 million in financial assets at fair value. Salaries and benefits increased 4.9% in 2011 to US$595.7 million. Net Interest Income Net interest income represents the difference between interest income on interest-earning assets and the interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. The following table sets forth the components of net interest income: Year ended December 31, 2009 2010 2011 (U.S. Dollars in thousands) Interest income: Loans US$ 1,062,046 US$ 1,218,728 US$ 1,533,351 Deposits in banks 11,047 3,667 6,568 Deposits in Central Bank 4,871 28,670 36,318 Investment securities and others 186,629 196,795 227,709 Dividends 9,715 11,615 15,321 Gain from derivatives instruments and other interest income 38,617 12,233 18,497 Total interest income US$ 1,312,925 US$ 1,471,708 US$ 1,837,764 Interest expense: Saving deposits US$ 18,509 US$ 8,820 US$ 13,541 Time deposits 206,118 153,929 211,332 Issued bonds 91,319 124,311 186,743 Borrowing from other financial institutions and others 27,328 43,532 64,369 Demand deposits 21,414 13,650 17,130 Loss from derivatives instruments and other interest expenses 55,876 69,879 38,485 Total interest expense US$ 420,564 US$ 414,121 US$ 531,600 Net interest income US$ 892,361 US$ 1,057,587 US$ 1,306,164 99 Our net interest income increased 23.5% in 2011 compared to 2010, and increased 18.5% in 2010 compared to 2009. Interest Income: Interest income increased 24.9% in 2011 compared to 2010, after increasing 12.1% in 2010 compared to 2009. The increase in 2011 was primarily due to higher average volume in loans and higher interest rates on investment securities. The increase in loans was primarily due to a higher average volume throughout the year and higher rates. The increase in 2010 was primarily due to higher average volume in loans and deposits in the Central Bank. Our average nominal interest rates earned on loans increased to 9.5% in 2011 from 9.4% in 2010 but remained lower than the 9.9% nominal interest rate earned in 2009. The average nominal interest rate for foreign currency-denominated loans decreased from 6.5% in 2010 to 4.8% in 2011 due to international interest rates which remain at record lows, despite the upward trend shown in the second half of the year. Interest rates for Nuevo Sol-denominated loans increased from 13.8% in 2009 to 14.1% in 2010 and further to 16.9% in 2011. The average balance of our foreign currency-denominated loan portfolio increased 22.4% to US$9,750.0 million in 2011, as compared to US$7,967.5 million in 2010. In 2010, the average balance of our foreign currency-denominated loan portfolio increased 17.0% over the US$6,810.1 million average balance recorded in 2009. The average balance of our Nuevo Sol-denominated loan portfolio increased 27.3% from US$3,893.5 million in 2009 to US$4,957.7 million in 2010, and by 27.6% to US$6,325.2 million in 2011. The average balance increase from 2010 to 2011 was in line with the 6.9% GDP growth of the Peruvian economy and was driven by internal demand that was reflected mainly in the expansion of our Retail Banking portfolio, especially consumer and SME. In 2011 the expansion of the average balance was comparable with the growth rate registered in 2010, despite the smaller growth rate of the overall Peruvian economy (8.8% in 2010 vs. 6.9% in 2011). Nevertheless, the average balance in 2010 and 2011 was much higher than it was in 2009, a year in which the Peruvian economy which grew by only 0.9% because of the effects of the international economic crisis on Peru’s domestic economic. Interest Expense: Interest expense increased in 2011 by 28.4% as compared to 2010 and decreased by 1.5% in 2010 as compared to 2009. The increase in interest expense during 2011 was principally due to an increase in the cost of funding for local currency deposits in the first half of 2011, which was associated with higher reference rates during that period (+125 basis points) and the Assets & Liabilities funding policies. Average nominal interest rates paid on foreign currency-denominated deposits decreased from 3.6% in 2009 to 2.5% in 2010, and to 2.3% in 2011. Average nominal interest paid on Nuevo Sol-denominated deposits decreased from 5.9% in 2009 to 3.0% in 2010 but increase to 4.9% in 2011. This increase was also a product of the monetary policy discussed above. See “