Item 1A. Risk Factors Following are the key risk factors that have affected our net sales and net income in the past and could materially impact our future net sales and net income: A downturn in government spending related to public water transmission projects would adversely affect our business. Our water transmission business accounted for approximately 71% of our net sales in 2006. Our water transmission business is primarily dependent upon spending on public water transmission projects, including water infrastructure upgrades, repairs and replacement and new water infrastructure spending, which, in turn, depends on, among other things: • the need for new or replacement infrastructure; • the priorities placed on various projects by governmental entities; • federal, state and local government spending levels, including budgetary constraints related to capital projects and the ability to obtain financing; and • the ability of governmental entities to obtain environmental approvals, right-of-way permits and other required approvals and permits. 7 Table of Contents Decreases in the number or government funding of public water transmission projects would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Project delays in public water transmission projects could adversely affect our business. The public water agencies constructing water transmission projects generally announce the projects well in advance of the bidding and construction process. It is not unusual for projects to be delayed and rescheduled. Projects are delayed and rescheduled for a number of reasons, including changes in project priorities, difficulties in complying with environmental and other government regulations and additional time required to acquire rights-of-way or property rights. Delays in public water transmission projects may occur with too little notice to allow us to replace those projects in our manufacturing schedules. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by unplanned downtime. We operate in highly competitive industries, and increased competition could reduce our gross profit and net income. We face significant competition in all of our businesses. Orders in the water transmission business are competitively bid, and price competition can be vigorous. Price competition may reduce the gross margin on sales, which may adversely affect overall profitability. Other competitive factors include timely delivery, ability to meet customized specifications and high freight costs. Although our water transmission manufacturing facilities in Oregon, Colorado, California, West Virginia and Texas allow us to compete effectively throughout the United States, Canada and Mexico, we cannot assure you that new or existing competitors will not establish new facilities or expand capacity within our market areas. New or expanded facilities or new competitors could have a material adverse effect on our ability to capture market share and maintain product pricing in our water transmission business. There are many competitors in the tubular products and fabricated products businesses, and price is often a prime consideration for purchase of our products. Price competition may reduce our gross profit, which may adversely affect our net income. Some of our competitors have greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully with our competitors. Failure to compete successfully could reduce our gross profit and net income, as well as have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Operating problems in our business could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our manufacturing operations are subject to typical hazards and risks relating to the manufacture of products such as: • explosions, fires, inclement weather and natural disasters; • mechanical failure; • unscheduled downtime; • labor difficulties; • an inability to obtain or maintain required licenses or permits; and • environmental hazards such as chemical spills, discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases into the environment or workplace. The occurrence of any of these operating problems at our facilities may have a material adverse effect on the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility or on our operations as a whole, during and after the period of these operating difficulties. These operating problems may also cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment, and environmental damage. In addition, individuals could seek damages for alleged personal injury or property damage. Furthermore, we could be subject to present and future claims with respect to workplace exposure, workers’ compensation and other matters. Although we maintain property and casualty insurance of the types and in the amounts that we believe are customary for our industries, we cannot assure you that our insurance coverage will be adequate for liability that may be ultimately incurred or that such coverage will continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. Any claims that result in liability exceeding our insurance coverage could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 8 Table of Contents Our water transmission business faces competition from concrete and ductile iron pipe manufacturers. Water transmission pipe is manufactured generally from steel, concrete or ductile iron. Each pipe material has advantages and disadvantages. Steel and concrete are more common materials for larger diameter water transmission pipelines because ductile iron pipe generally is limited in diameter due to its manufacturing process. The public agencies and engineers who determine the specifications for water transmission projects analyze these pipe materials for suitability for each project. Individual project circumstances normally dictate the preferred material. If we experience cost increases in raw materials, labor and overhead specific to our industry or the location of our facilities, while competing products or companies do not experience similar changes, we could experience an adverse change in the demand, price and profitability of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our quarterly results of operations are subject to significant fluctuation. Our net sales and operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, including: • the schedule of production of water transmission orders, including unplanned down time due to project delays; • the commencement, completion or termination of contracts during any particular quarter; • the seasonal variation in demand for tubular products and fabricated products; • fluctuations in the cost of steel and other raw materials; and • competitive pressures. Results of operations in any period are not indicative of results for any future period, and comparisons between any two periods may not be meaningful. We depend on our senior management team, and the loss of any member could adversely affect our operations. Our success depends on the management and leadership skills of our senior management team. The loss of any of these individuals, particularly Brian W. Dunham, our president and chief executive officer, or our inability to attract, retain and maintain additional personnel, could prevent us from fully implementing our business strategy. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing senior management personnel or to attract qualified personnel when needed. We have not entered into employment agreements with any of our senior management personnel. The success of our business is affected by general economic conditions, and our business may be adversely affected by an economic slowdown or recession. Periods of economic slowdown or recession in the United States, or the public perception that one may occur, could decrease the demand for our products, affect the price of our products and adversely impact our business. We have been impacted in the past by the general slowing of the economy and any future economic slowdowns could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuations in steel prices may affect our future results of operations. Purchased steel represents a substantial portion of our cost of sales, particularly in our tubular products and fabricated products businesses. The steel industry is highly cyclical in nature, and, at times, pricing can be highly volatile due to a number of factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, import duties, other trade restrictions and currency exchange rates. This volatility can significantly affect our gross profit. Although we seek to recover increases in steel prices through price increases in our products, we have not always been completely successful. For example, in 2003, when the price of steel increased, we were unable to pass along the price increase to our customers, which adversely affected our results of operations. Any similar increase in steel prices that is not offset by an increase in our prices could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 9 Table of Contents We may be subject to claims for damages for defective products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We warrant our products to be free of certain defects. Losses may result or be alleged to result from defects in our products, which could subject us to claims for damages, including consequential damages. For example, in July 2004, we settled a product liability class action suit relating to small-diameter, thin walled fire sprinkler pipe. Pursuant to the terms of the settlement, if the remaining insurance funds of approximately $2.5 million are exhausted, we would be obligated to pay class members who have a qualifying leak at any time from July 7, 2004 to July 7, 2019 an aggregate of up to $500,000 per year for qualifying claims (or up to $1.0 million per year in the three years following July 7, 2019 for qualifying claims previously submitted). We cannot assure you that we will not experience any material product liability losses in the future or that we will not incur significant costs to defend such claims. While we currently have product liability insurance, we cannot assure you that our product liability insurance coverage will be adequate for liability that may be ultimately incurred or that such coverage will continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. Any claims relating to defective products that result in liability exceeding our insurance coverage could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Sustained increases in fuel costs could have an adverse impact on our profitability. We have recently experienced significant increases in fuel costs as a result primarily of macro-economic factors beyond our control. The price of fuel fluctuates significantly over time, and events beyond our control such as natural disasters could adversely affect the supply and cost of fuel. Although we seek to recover increases in fuel costs through price increases in our products, we have not always been completely successful. Any increase in fuel costs that is not offset by increases in our prices could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our products might not obtain necessary approvals or achieve market acceptance, which could adversely affect our growth. We will continue to actively seek to develop new products and to expand our existing products into new markets, but we cannot assure you that we will be successful in these efforts. In the traffic signpost systems market, our products generally have to be approved by governmental agencies, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain or maintain such approval. If we are unsuccessful in developing and marketing new products, expanding into new markets, or we do not obtain or maintain requisite approvals for our products, the demand for our products will be adversely affected, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have foreign operations, which exposes us to the risks of doing business abroad. Our fabricated products are manufactured at our Monterrey, Mexico facility, primarily for export to the United States. Any material changes in the quotas, regulations or duties on imports imposed by the U.S. government and its agencies or on exports imposed by Mexico and its agencies could adversely affect our operations in Mexico. We also sell some of our products internationally, and part of our business strategy contemplates international growth. Our foreign activities are also subject to various other risks of doing business in a foreign country, including: • currency fluctuations; • transportation delays and interruptions; • political, social and economic instability and disruptions; • government embargoes or foreign trade restrictions; • the imposition of duties, tariffs and other trade barriers; • import and export controls; • labor unrest and current and changing regulatory environments; • limitations on our ability to enforce legal rights and remedies; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. 10 Table of Contents Although our operations have not been materially affected by any such factors to date, no assurance can be given that our operations may not be adversely affected in the future. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our operations in the future by reducing the demand for our products and services, decreasing the prices at which we can sell our products or otherwise having an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will continue to operate in compliance with applicable customs, currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations or any other laws or regulations to which we may be subject. We also cannot assure you that these customs, regulations or laws will not be modified. We have a significant amount of outstanding debt. We have financed our operations through cash flow from operations, available borrowings and other financing arrangements. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately $100.6 million of outstanding debt. Our high level of debt and our debt service obligations could: • limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital or other purposes in the future; • reduce the amount of funds available to finance our operations, capital expenditures and other activities; • increase our vulnerability to economic downturns and industry conditions; • limit our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions, including increased competition; • place us at a disadvantage when compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • with respect to our borrowings that bear interest at variable rates, cause us to be vulnerable to increases in interest rates. Our ability to make scheduled payments on our debt will depend on our future operating performance and cash flow, which are subject to prevailing economic conditions, prevailing interest rate levels and other financial, competitive and business factors, many of which are beyond our control. Additionally, the agreements governing our outstanding debt include financial and other restrictive covenants that impose certain requirements with respect to our financial condition and results of operations and general business activities. These covenants could adversely affect us by limiting our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or to meet our capital needs. These covenants require us to maintain certain financial ratios and place restrictions on, among other things, our ability to incur certain additional debt and to create liens or other encumbrances on assets. A failure to comply with the requirements of these covenants, if not waived or cured, could permit acceleration of the related debt and acceleration of debt under other instruments that include cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. If any of our debt is accelerated, we cannot assure you that we would have sufficient assets to repay such debt or that we would be able to refinance such debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our backlog is subject to reduction and cancellation. Backlog represents products or services that our customers have committed by contract to purchase from us. Our backlog as of December 31, 2006 was $198.2 million. Our backlog is subject to fluctuations and is not necessarily indicative of future sales. Moreover, cancellations of purchase orders or reductions of product quantities could materially reduce our backlog and, consequently, future revenues. Our failure to replace canceled or reduced backlog could result in lower revenues, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our tubular products business faces intense competition from imports. The level of imports of tubular products significantly impacts the domestic tubular products market. High levels of imports may reduce the volume of tubular products sold by domestic producers and depress selling prices of tubular products. We believe 11 Table of Contents import levels are affected by, among other things, overall worldwide demand for tubular products, the trade practices of foreign governments, government subsidies to foreign producers and governmentally imposed trade restrictions in the United States. Increased imports of tubular products in the United States and Canada could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to stringent environmental and health and safety laws, which may require us to incur substantial compliance and remediation costs, thereby reducing our profits. We are subject to many federal, state, local and foreign environmental and health and safety laws and regulations, particularly with respect to the use, handling, treatment, storage, discharge and disposal of substances and hazardous wastes used or generated in our manufacturing processes. Compliance with these laws and regulations is a significant factor in our business. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant expenditures to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations. Our failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations and permit requirements could result in civil or criminal fines or penalties or enforcement actions, including regulatory or judicial orders enjoining or curtailing operations or requiring corrective measures, installation of pollution control equipment or remedial actions. We are currently, and may in the future be, required to incur costs relating to the investigation or remediation of property, including property where we have disposed of our waste, and for addressing environmental conditions, including, but not limited to, the issues associated with our Portland, Oregon facility as discussed in “Business—Legal Proceedings” below. Some environmental laws and regulations impose liability and responsibility on present and former owners, operators or users of facilities and sites for contamination at such facilities and sites without regard to causation or knowledge of contamination. Consequently, we cannot assure you that existing or future circumstances, the development of new facts or the failure of third parties to address contamination at current or former facilities or properties will not require significant expenditures by us. We expect to continue to be subject to increasingly stringent environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. It is difficult to predict the future interpretation and development of environmental and health and safety laws and regulations or their impact on our future earnings and operations. We anticipate that compliance will continue to require capital expenditures and operating costs. Any increase in these costs, or unanticipated liabilities arising, for example, out of discovery of previously unknown conditions or more aggressive enforcement actions, could adversely affect our results of operations, and there is no assurance that they will not exceed our reserves or have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face risks in connection with potential acquisitions. Acquiring businesses that complement or expand our operations has been an important element of our business strategy in the past. Although we have not completed an acquisition since 1999, we continue to evaluate potential acquisitions that may expand and complement our business. We may not be able to successfully identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate favorable terms in the future. Furthermore, our ability to effectively integrate any future acquisitions will depend on, among other things, the adequacy of our implementation plans, the ability of our management to oversee and operate effectively the combined operations and our ability to achieve desired operational efficiencies. If we are unable to successfully integrate the operations of any businesses that we may acquire in the future, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The relatively low trading volume of our common stock may limit your ability to sell your shares. Although our shares of common stock are listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, our average daily trading volume over the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 was approximately 22,000 shares. As a result, holders of our shares may have difficulty selling a large number of shares of our common stock in the manner or at a price that might otherwise be attainable if our shares were more actively traded. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: • our operating and financial performance and prospects; 12 Table of Contents • quarterly variations in the rate of growth of our financial indicators, such as earnings per share, net income and revenues; • changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports by analysts; • loss of any member of our senior management team; • speculation in the press or investment community; • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructuring; • sales of our common stock by shareholders; • general market conditions; and • domestic and international economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance. The stock markets in general have experienced broad fluctuations that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Certain provisions of our governing documents and Oregon law could discourage potential acquisition proposals. Our articles of incorporation contain provisions that: • classify the board of directors into three classes, each of which serves for a three-year term with one class elected each year; • provide that directors may be removed by shareholders only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of 75% of the outstanding shares of common stock; and • permit the board of directors to issue preferred stock in one or more series, fix the number of shares constituting any such series and determine the voting powers and all other rights and preferences of any such series, without any further vote or action by our shareholders. In addition, we are subject to the Oregon Business Combination Act, which imposes certain restrictions on business combination transactions and may encourage parties interested in acquiring us to negotiate in advance with our board of directors. We also have a shareholder rights plan that acts to discourage any person or group from making a tender offer for, or acquiring, more than 15% of our common stock without the approval of our board of directors. Any of these provisions could discourage potential acquisition proposals, could deter, delay or prevent a change in control that our shareholders consider favorable and could depress the market value of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 13 Table of Contents 