Risk Factors. You should carefully consider these risk factors in evaluating the Company. In addition to the following risks, there may also be risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial that may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, results of operation or financial condition could be adversely affected, the trading price of our common stock could decline and shareholders might lose all or part of their investment. The Company has risks associated with its recent Portfolio Purchase Agreement. On February 5, 2007, Palisades Acquisition XV, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, entered into a Purchase and Sale Agreement (the “Portfolio Purchase Agreement”) with Great Seneca Financial Corporation, Platinum Financial Services Corporation, Monarch Capital Corporation, Colonial Credit Corporation, Centurion Capital Corporation, Sage Financial Corporation and Hawker Financial Corporation (collectively, the “Sellers”), under which we agreed to acquire a portfolio of approximately $6.9 billion in face value receivables (the “Portfolio Purchase”) for a purchase price of $300 million plus 20% of any future Net Payments (as defined in the Portfolio Purchase Agreement) received by the Company after the Company has received Net Payments equal to 150% of the purchase price plus our cost of funds. The Portfolio (now owned by Palisades Acquisition XVI, LLC (“Palisades XVI”)) predominantly consists of credit card accounts and includes some accounts in collection litigation and accounts as to which the Sellers have been awarded judgments. The transaction was consummated on March 5, 2007. Under the Portfolio Purchase Agreement, we assumed certain risks associated with the Portfolio Purchase. The representations and warranties with respect to the Portfolio which we received from the Sellers have limitations both in scope and, in certain cases, duration, including a limitation of our put-back rights with respect to certain types of claims, a requirement that certain claims be brought within 120 days of closing or be deemed waived, and a limitation with respect to the Sellers’ responsibilities for acts of prior owners. Other than the representations contained in the Portfolio Purchase Agreement, the accounts were sold as is. No assurances can be given that we will have an adequate remedy if our understandings about the quality, quantity and characteristics of the Accounts in the Portfolio prove to be contrary to our expectations. We may not be able to satisfy our obligation under our Receivable Financing Agreement. The Receivable Financing Agreement required that the principal amount thereunder be reduced under a schedule tied to projected collections on the Portfolio Purchase. As we fell behind the minimum required amortization schedule, principally as a result of sales of accounts that were built into that schedule, and since currently we believe that our strategy of suing debtors will ultimately realize more than the sales of these accounts would produce, the Company and its lender entered into an amendment dated December 27, 2007. The amendment allows us greater flexibility to use our strategy and substantially eliminates any scheduled sales of accounts used in the original expectations. Additionally, the amendment effectively extends the repayment schedule from 25 months to 31 months. While we believe that we will be able to satisfy the new collection schedule, no assurances can be given that collections will not slow further, notwithstanding our recent engagement of a sub-servicer to assist with collection of this Portfolio Purchase, as described in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Such slowing of collections could cause us to fall behind the schedule and default on our obligations under the amended Receivable Financing Agreement. The anticipated benefits of the Portfolio Purchase may not meet our expectations. The Portfolio Purchase increased our assets acquired for liquidation by more than 100%, so that our near term future operating results are highly dependent on the returns realized from the Portfolio Purchase. While we believe that we have the capability to manage such a significantly increased asset base, no assurances can be given that we will not experience operational difficulties internally or with our third party collection agencies and attorneys in managing an asset base of this size. Further, while we believe that the returns on the Portfolio Purchase will be at least as favorable as our historic 12 Table of Contents returns on smaller portfolio purchases, no assurances can be given with respect to our initial evaluation of the quality of the assets in the Portfolio nor with respect to our ability to manage the Portfolio profitably. We have incurred substantial debt from time to time in connection with our purchase of consumer receivable portfolios, particularly with respect to the Portfolio Purchase Agreement, and may incur further debt in the future which could affect our ability to obtain additional funds and may increase our vulnerability to economic or business downturns. To finance the Portfolio Purchase, we needed to incur substantial indebtedness. On February 5, 2007, upon execution of the Portfolio Purchase Agreement, we were required to provide the Seller with a $60 million deposit, which we did by utilizing substantially all of the availability under our existing $175 million credit facility. We made a second deposit payment of $15 million on February 16, 2007, which we did by amending our existing line of credit to increase availability temporarily from $175 million to $190 million, with reduction targets set to April 17, 2007 which were met. The remaining $225 million was paid in full at the closing of the Portfolio Purchase on March 5, 2007, by borrowing approximately $227 million (inclusive of transaction costs) under a new Receivables Financing Agreement entered into by Palisades XVI, with a major financial institution as the funding source, consisting of debt with full recourse only to Palisades XVI, and bearing an interest rate which approximates 170 basis points over LIBOR. The term of the agreement is three years. All assets of Palisades XVI, principally the Portfolio Purchase, are pledged to secure such borrowing, and all proceeds received as a result of the net collections from this Portfolio Purchase are to be applied to interest and principal of the underlying loan. The Company made certain representations and warranties to the lender to support the transaction. As of September 30, 2007 the balance due on the Receivable Financing Agreement was $184.8 million. On December 4, 2007, we signed the Sixth Amendment to the Fourth Amended and Restated Loan Agreement with a consortium of banks that temporarily increases the total revolving loan commitment from $175,000,000 to $185,000,000. The temporary increase of $10,000,000 is required to be repaid by February 29, 2008. In the event the increase is not repaid by February 29, 2008, the then outstanding portion of the temporary increase shall be repaid over a six month period. The outstanding balance under this line of credit at September 30, 2007 was approximately $141.7 million. Our ability to grow through this line may be limited as we are approaching the upper limit of our borrowing availability and we may need to seek additional financing. As of September 30, 2007, Palisade XVI, the Company’s indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, was required to remit an additional $13.1 million to its lender in order to be in compliance under the Receivable Financing Agreement. The Company facilitated the ability of Palisades XVI to make this payment by borrowing $13.1 million under its current revolving credit facility and causing another of its subsidiaries to purchase a portion of the Portfolio Purchase from Palisade XVI at a price of $13.1 million prior to the measurement date under the Receivable Financing Agreement. The Receivable Financing Agreement required that the principal amount thereunder be reduced under a schedule tied to projected collections on the Portfolio Purchase. As we fell behind the minimum required amortization schedule, principally as a result of sales of accounts that were built into that schedule, and since currently we believe that our strategy of suing debtors will ultimately realize more than the sales of these accounts would produce, the Company and its lender entered into an amendment dated December 27, 2007. The amendment allows us greater flexibility to use our strategy and substantially eliminates any scheduled sales of accounts used in the original expectations. Additionally, the amendment effectively extends the repayment schedule from 25 months to 31 months. While we believe that we will be able to satisfy the new collection schedule, no assurance can be given that collections will not slow further, notwithstanding our recent engagement of a sub-servicer to assist with collection of this Portfolio Purchase, as described in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Such slowing of collections could cause us to fall behind the schedule and default on our obligations under the amended Receivable Financing Agreement. 13 Table of Contents By incurring such substantial indebtedness and by incurring additional indebtedness from time to time in connection with the purchase of consumer receivable portfolios in the future, we are subject to the risks associated with incurring such indebtedness, including: • we are required to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flows from operations to pay debt service costs and, as a result, we will have less funds available for operations, future acquisitions of consumer receivable portfolios, and other purposes; • it may be more difficult and expensive to obtain additional funds through financings, if available at all; • we are more vulnerable to economic downturns and fluctuations in interest rates, less able to withstand competitive pressures and less flexible in reacting to changes in our industry and general economic conditions; and • if we defaulted under our existing credit facilities or if our creditors demanded payment of a portion or all of our indebtedness, we may not have sufficient funds to make such payments. We have pledged all of our portfolios of consumer receivables to secure our borrowings and are subject to covenants that may restrict our ability to operate our business. As we borrow funds to purchase portfolios we may fully utilize our availability under that facility and no future borrowings are permitted under the new Receivables Financing Agreement. This may place us at a competitive disadvantage as compared to less leveraged companies. Any indebtedness that we incur under our existing line of credit is collateralized by all of our portfolios of consumer receivables acquired for liquidation, except the Portfolio Purchase only collateralizes the Receivables Financing Agreement. If we default under the indebtedness secured by our assets, including failure to comply with borrowing base requirements, those assets would be available to the secured creditor to satisfy our obligations to the secured creditor. In addition, our credit facility imposes certain restrictive covenants, including financial covenants and borrowing base requirements. Failure to satisfy any of these covenants could result in all or any of the following: • acceleration of the payment of our outstanding indebtedness; • cross defaults to and acceleration of the payment under other financing arrangements; • our inability to borrow additional amounts under our existing financing arrangements; and • our inability to secure financing on favorable terms or at all from alternative sources. Any of these consequences could adversely affect our ability to acquire consumer receivable portfolios and operate our business. We may not be able to purchase consumer receivable portfolios at favorable prices or on sufficiently favorable terms or at all. Our success depends upon the continued availability of consumer receivable portfolios that meet our purchasing criteria and our ability to identify and finance the purchases of such portfolios. The availability of consumer receivable portfolios at favorable prices and on terms acceptable to us depends on a number of factors outside of our control, including: • the continuation of the current growth trend in consumer debt; • the continued volume of consumer receivable portfolios available for sale; • competitive factors affecting potential purchasers and sellers of consumer receivable portfolios; and • possible future changes in the bankruptcy laws, state laws and homestead acts which could make it more difficult for us to collect. 14 Table of Contents We may not be able to continually replace our defaulted consumer receivables. To operate profitably, we must continually acquire a sufficient amount of distressed consumer receivables to generate continued revenue. Furthermore, we cannot predict how our ability to identify and purchase receivables and the quality of those receivables would be affected if there is a shift in consumer lending practices whether caused by changes in the regulations or accounting practices applicable to debt buying and sustained economic downturn. We have seen at certain times that the market for acquiring consumer receivable portfolios has become more competitive, thereby diminishing from time to time our ability to acquire such receivables at prices we are willing to pay. The growth in consumer debt may also be affected by: • a slowdown in the economy; • problems in the credit and housing markets; • reductions in consumer spending; • changes in the underwriting criteria by originators; and • changes in laws and regulations governing consumer lending. Any slowing of the consumer debt growth trend could result in a decrease in the availability of consumer receivable portfolios for purchase that could affect the purchase prices of such portfolios. Any increase in the prices we are required to pay for such portfolios in turn will reduce the profit, if any, we generate from such portfolios. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate and cause our stock price to decline. Because of the nature of our business, our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our results may fluctuate as a result of any of the following: • the timing and amount of collections on our consumer receivable portfolios; • our inability to identify and acquire additional consumer receivable portfolios; • a decline in the estimated future value of our consumer receivable portfolio recoveries; • increases in operating expenses associated with the growth of our operations; • general and economic market conditions; and • prices we are willing to pay for consumer receivable portfolios. Our projections of future cash flows from our portfolio purchases may prove to be inaccurate, which could result in reduced revenues or the recording of an impairment charge if we do not achieve the collections forecasted by our model. We use qualitative and quantitative analysis to project future cash flows from our portfolio purchases. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to achieve the collections forecasted by our analysis. If we are not able to achieve these levels of forecasted collection, our revenues will be reduced or we may be required to record an impairment charge, which could result in a reduction of our earnings. For the year ended September 30, 2007, we recorded impairment charges of $9.1 million. Impairments were taken on eleven portfolios as relative collections compared to our expectations on these portfolios were deteriorating, and this deterioration was confirmed by our third party collection agencies and attorneys. Accordingly, we believed that impairment charges were necessary. 15 Table of Contents We may not be able to recover sufficient amounts on our consumer receivable portfolios to recover the costs associated with the purchase of those portfolios and to fund our operations. We acquire and collect on consumer receivable portfolios that contain charged-off, semi-performing and performing receivables. In order to operate profitably over the long term, we must continually purchase and collect on a sufficient volume of receivables to generate revenue that exceeds our costs. For accounts that are charged-off or semi-performing, the originators or interim owners of the receivables generally have: • made numerous attempts to collect on these obligations, often using both their in-house collection staff and third-party collection agencies; • subsequently deemed these obligations as uncollectible; and • charged-off these obligations. These receivable portfolios are purchased at significant discounts to the amount the consumers owe. These receivables are difficult to collect and actual recoveries may vary and be less than the amount expected. In addition, our collections may worsen in a weak economic cycle. We may not recover amounts in excess of our acquisition and servicing costs. Our ability to recover on our portfolios and produce sufficient returns can be negatively impacted by the quality of the purchased receivables. In the normal course of our portfolio acquisitions, some receivables may be included in the portfolios that fail to conform to certain terms of the purchase agreements and we may seek to return these receivables to the seller for payment or replacement receivables. However, we cannot guarantee that any of such sellers will be able to meet their payment obligations to us. Accounts that we are unable to return to sellers may yield no return. If cash flows from operations are less than anticipated as a result of our inability to collect sufficient amounts on our receivables, our ability to satisfy our debt obligations, purchase new portfolios and our future growth and profitability may be materially adversely affected. We are subject to intense competition for the purchase of consumer receivable portfolios. We compete with other purchasers of consumer receivable portfolios, with third-party collection agencies and with financial services companies that manage their own consumer receivable portfolios. We compete on the basis of price, reputation, industry experience and performance. Some of our competitors have greater capital, personnel and other resources than we have. The possible entry of new competitors, including competitors that historically have focused on the acquisition of different asset types, and the expected increase in competition from current market participants may reduce our access to consumer receivable portfolios. Aggressive pricing by our competitors could raise the price of consumer receivable portfolios above levels that we are willing to pay, which could reduce the number of consumer receivable portfolios suitable for us to purchase or if purchased by us, reduce the profits, if any, generated by such portfolios. If we are unable to purchase receivable portfolios at favorable prices or at all, our finance income and earnings could be materially reduced. We are dependent upon third parties to service a majority of our consumer receivable portfolios. Although we utilize our in-house collection staff to collect some of our receivables, we outsource a majority of our receivable servicing. As a result, we are dependent upon the efforts of our third- party collection agencies and attorneys to service and collect our consumer receivables. However, any failure by our third party collection agencies and attorneys to adequately perform collection services for us or remit such collections to us could materially reduce our finance income and our profitability. In addition, our finance income and profitability could be materially adversely affected if we are not able to secure replacement third party collection agencies and attorneys and redirect payments from the debtors to our new third party collection agencies and attorneys promptly in the event our agreements with our third-party collection agencies and attorneys are terminated, our third-party collection agencies and attorneys fail to adequately perform their obligations or if our relationships with such third-party collection agencies and attorneys adversely change. 16 Table of Contents We rely on our third party collectors to comply with all rules and regulations and maintain proper internal controls over their accounting and operations. Because the receivables were originated and serviced pursuant to a variety of federal and/or state laws by a variety of entities and involved consumers in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and outside the United States, there can be no assurance that all original servicing entities have at all times been in substantial compliance with applicable law. Additionally, there can be no assurance that we or our third-party collection agencies and attorneys have been or will continue to be at all times in substantial compliance with applicable law. The failure to comply with applicable law and not maintain proper controls in their accounting and operations could materially adversely affect our ability to collect our receivables and could subject us to increased costs and fines and penalties. Our collections may decrease if bankruptcy filings increase. During times of economic recession, the amount of defaulted consumer receivables generally increases, which contributes to an increase in the amount of personal bankruptcy filings. Under certain bankruptcy filings, a debtor’s assets are sold to repay credit originators, but since the defaulted consumer receivables we purchase are generally unsecured we often would not be able to collect on those receivables. We cannot assure you that our collection experience would not decline with an increase in bankruptcy filings. If our actual collection experience with respect to a defaulted consumer receivables portfolio is significantly lower than we projected when we purchased the portfolio, our earnings could be negatively affected. If we are unable to access external sources of financing, we may not be able to fund and grow our operations. We depend on loans from our credit facility and other external sources in part, to fund and expand our operations. Our ability to grow our business is dependent on our access to additional financing and capital resources. The failure to obtain financing and capital as needed would limit our ability to: • purchase consumer receivable portfolios; and • achieve our growth plans. In addition, our financing sources impose certain restrictive covenants, including financial covenants. Failure to satisfy any of these covenants could: • cause our indebtedness to become immediately payable; • preclude us from further borrowings from these existing sources; and • prevent us from securing alternative sources of financing necessary to purchase consumer receivable portfolios and to operate our business. We use estimates for recognizing finance income on substantially all of our consumer receivable portfolio investments and our earnings would be reduced if actual results are less than estimated. We utilize the interest method of revenue recognition for determining our income recognized on finance receivables, which is based on projected cash flows that may prove to be less than anticipated and could lead to reductions in revenue or impairment charges under the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (“AICPA”) Statement of Position (“SOP”) 03-3 Accounting for Loans or Certain Securities Acquired in a Transfer. Under the guidance of SOP 03-3 (and the amended Practice Bulletin 6), static pools of accounts are established. These pools are aggregated based on certain common risk criteria. Each static pool is recorded at cost and is accounted for as a single unit for the recognition of income, principal payments and loss provision. Once a static pool is established for a quarter, individual receivable accounts are not added to the pool (unless replaced by the seller) or removed from the pool (unless sold or returned to the seller). SOP 03-3 (and the amended Practice Bulletin 6) requires that the excess of the contractual cash flows over expected cash flows not be recognized as an adjustment of revenue or expense or on the balance sheet. The SOP initially freezes the internal rate of return, referred to as IRR, estimated when the accounts receivable are purchased as the basis for subsequent impairment testing. Significant increases in actual, or expected future cash flows may be recognized prospectively through an 17 Table of Contents upward adjustment of the IRR over a portfolio’s remaining life. Any increase to the IRR then becomes the new benchmark for impairment testing. Effective for fiscal years beginning October 1, 2005 under SOP 03-3 (and the amended Practice Bulletin 6), rather than lowering the estimated IRR if the collection estimates are not received or projected to be received, the carrying value of a pool would be written down to maintain the then current IRR. Any reduction in our earnings could materially adversely affect our stock price. We may rely on third parties to locate, identify and evaluate consumer receivable portfolios available for purchase. We may rely on third parties, including brokers and third-party collection agencies and attorneys, to identify consumer receivable portfolios and, in some instances, to assist us in our evaluation and purchase of these portfolios. As a result, if such third parties fail to identify receivable portfolios or if our relationships with such third parties are not maintained, our ability to identify and purchase additional receivable portfolios could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if we, or such parties fail to correctly or adequately evaluate the value or collectibility of these consumer receivable portfolios, we may pay too much for such portfolios and suffer an impairment and our earnings could be negatively affected. The loss of an asset type could impact our ability to acquire receivable portfolios. In the event one of the asset classes of receivables which we purchase is no longer available to us, our purchases may decline and our results might suffer. We may not be successful at acquiring receivables of new asset types or in implementing a new pricing structure. We may pursue the acquisition of receivable portfolios of asset types in which we have little current experience. We may not be successful in completing any acquisitions of receivables of these asset types and our limited experience in these asset types may impair our ability to collect on these receivables. This may cause us to pay too much for these receivables, and consequently, we may not generate a profit from these receivable portfolio acquisitions. The loss of any of our executive officers may adversely affect our operations and our ability to successfully acquire receivable portfolios. Arthur Stern, our Chairman and Executive Vice President, Gary Stern, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Mitchell Cohen, our Chief Financial Officer are responsible for making substantially all management decisions, including determining which portfolios to purchase, the purchase price and other material terms of such portfolio acquisitions. These decisions are instrumental to the success of our business. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our ability to successfully acquire receivable portfolios. The Stern family effectively controls Asta, substantially reducing the influence of our other stockholders. Members of the Stern family including Arthur Stern, Gary Stern and Barbara Marburger, daughter of Arthur Stern and sister of Gary Stern, trusts or custodial accounts for the benefit of minor children of Barbara Marburger and Gary Stern, Asta Group, Incorporated, and limited liability companies controlled by Judith R. Feder, niece of Arthur Stern and cousin of Gary Stern, in which Arthur Stern, Alice Stern (wife of Arthur Stern and mother of Gary Stern and Barbara Marburger), Gary Stern and trusts for the benefit of the issue of Arthur Stern and the issue of Gary Stern hold all economic interests, own in the aggregate approximately 24.0% of our outstanding shares of common stock. In addition, other members of the Stern Family, such as adult children of Gary Stern and Barbara Marburger, own additional shares. As a result, the Stern family is able to influence significantly the actions that require stockholder approval, including: • the election of a majority of our directors; and • the approval of mergers, sales of assets or other corporate transactions or matters submitted for stockholder approval. 18 Table of Contents As a result, our other stockholders may have little or no influence over matters submitted for stockholder approval. In addition, the Stern family’s influence could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of us and consequently materially adversely affect the price of our common stock. We have experienced rapid growth over the past several years, which has placed significant demands on our administrative, operational and financial resources and could result in an increase in our expenses. We plan to continue our growth, which could place additional demands on our resources and cause our expenses to increase. Future internal growth will depend on a number of factors, including: • the effective and timely initiation and development of relationships with sellers of consumer receivable portfolios and strategic partners; • our ability to maintain the collection of consumer receivables efficiently; and • the recruitment, motivation and retention of qualified personnel. Sustaining growth will also require the implementation of enhancements to our operational and financial systems and will require additional management, operational and financial resources. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our expanding operations effectively or that we will be able to maintain or accelerate our growth or attract additional management talent and any failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to generate finance income and control our expenses. Government regulations may limit our ability to recover and enforce the collection of our receivables. Federal, state and municipal laws, rules, regulations and ordinances may limit our ability to recover and enforce our rights with respect to the receivables acquired by us. These laws include, but are not limited to, the following federal statutes and regulations promulgated thereunder and comparable statutes in states where consumers reside and/or where creditors are located: • the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act; • the Federal Trade Commission Act; • the Truth-In-Lending Act; • the Fair Credit Billing Act; • the Equal Credit Opportunity Act; and • the Fair Credit Reporting Act. We may be precluded from collecting receivables we purchase where the creditor or other previous owner or third-party collection agency and attorney failed to comply with applicable law in originating or servicing such acquired receivables. Laws relating to the collection of consumer debt also directly apply to our business. Our failure to comply with any laws applicable to us, including state licensing laws, could limit our ability to recover on receivables and could subject us to fines and penalties, which could reduce our earnings and result in a default under our loan arrangements. In addition, our third-party collection agencies and attorneys may be subject to these and other laws and their failure to comply with such laws could also materially adversely affect our finance income and earnings. Additional laws may be enacted that could impose additional restrictions on the servicing and collection of receivables. Such new laws may adversely affect the ability to collect on our receivables, which could also adversely affect our finance income and earnings. Because our receivables are generally originated and serviced pursuant to a variety of federal and/or state laws by a variety of entities and may involve consumers in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico, there can be no assurance that all original servicing entities have at all times been in substantial compliance with applicable law. Additionally, there can be no assurance that we or our third-party collection agencies and attorneys have been or will continue to be at all times in substantial compliance with applicable law. Failure to comply with 19 Table of Contents applicable law could materially adversely affect our ability to collect our receivables and could subject us to increased costs, fines and penalties. Class action suits and other litigation in our industry could divert our management’s attention from operating our business and increase our expenses. Certain originators and third-party collection agencies and attorneys in the consumer credit industry have been subject to class actions and other litigation. Claims include failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations and improper or deceptive origination and servicing practices. If we become a party to such class action suits or other litigation, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We may seek to make acquisitions that prove unsuccessful or strain or divert our resources. We may seek to grow Asta through acquisitions of related businesses. Such acquisitions present risks that could materially adversely affect our business and financial performance, including: • the diversion of our management’s attention from our everyday business activities; • the assimilation of the operations and personnel of the acquired business; • the contingent and latent risks associated with the past operations of, and other unanticipated problems arising in, the acquired business; and • the need to expand management, administration and operational systems. If we make such acquisitions we cannot predict whether: • we will be able to successfully integrate the operations of any new businesses into our business; • we will realize any anticipated benefits of completed acquisitions; or • there will be substantial unanticipated costs associated with acquisitions. In addition, future acquisitions by us may result in: • potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities; • the incurrence of additional debt; and • the recognition of significant charges for depreciation and amortization related to goodwill impairment and other intangible assets. Although we have no present plans or intentions, we continuously evaluate potential acquisitions of related businesses. However, we have not reached any agreement or arrangement with respect to any particular future acquisition and we may not be able to complete any acquisitions on favorable terms or at all. Our investments in other businesses and entry into new business ventures may adversely affect our operations. We have and may continue to make investments in companies or commence operations in businesses and industries that are not identical to those with which we have historically been successful. If these investments or arrangements are not successful, our earnings could be materially adversely affected by increased expenses and decreased finance income. If our technology and phone systems are not operational, our operations could be disrupted and our ability to successfully acquire receivable portfolios could be adversely affected. Our success depends, in part, on sophisticated telecommunications and computer systems. The temporary loss of our computer and telecommunications systems, through casualty, operating malfunction or service provider failure, could disrupt our operations. In addition, we must record and process significant amounts of data quickly and accurately to properly bid on prospective acquisitions of receivable portfolios and to access, maintain and 20 Table of Contents expand the databases we use for our collection and monitoring activities. Any failure of our information systems and their backup systems would interrupt our operations. We may not have adequate backup arrangements for all of our operations and we may incur significant losses if an outage occurs. In addition, we rely on third-party collection agencies and attorneys who also may be adversely affected in the event of an outage in which the third-party collection agencies and attorneys do not have adequate backup arrangements. Any interruption in our operations or our third-party collection agencies’ and attorneys’ operations could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our organizational documents and Delaware law may make it harder for us to be acquired without the consent and cooperation of our board of directors and management. Several provisions of our organizational documents and Delaware law may deter or prevent a takeover attempt, including a takeover attempt in which the potential purchaser offers to pay a per share price greater than the current market price of our common stock. Under the terms of our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by the stockholders, to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions thereof. The ability to issue shares of preferred stock could tend to discourage takeover or acquisition proposals not supported by our current board of directors. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which restricts business combinations with some stockholders once the stockholder acquires 15% or more of our common stock. Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could cause a decrease in the market price of our common stock. We had 13,918,158 shares of common stock issued and outstanding as of the date hereof. Of these shares, 3,341,008 are held by our affiliates and are saleable under Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The remainder of our outstanding shares were freely tradeable. In addition, options to purchase approximately 1,337,438 shares of our common stock were outstanding as of September 30, 2007, of which 1,325,438 were vested. The exercise prices of such options were substantially lower than the current market price of our common stock. We may also issue additional shares in connection with our business and may grant additional stock options or restricted shares to our employees, officers, directors and consultants under our present or future equity compensation plans or we may issue warrants to third parties outside of such plans. As of September 30, 2007 there were 1,325,334 shares available for such purpose with such shares available under the Equity Compensation Plan and the 2002 Stock Option Plan. No more options are available for issuance under the 1995 Stock Option Plan. If a significant portion of these shares were sold in the public market, the market value of our common stock could be adversely affected. From time to time, the Company’s Chairman, Arthur Stern and President and Chief Executive Officer, Gary Stern adopted prearranged stock trading plans in accordance with guidelines specified by Rule 10b5-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. While no such plans are in effect at present, significant sales by the Stern family could have an adverse effect on market prices for our common stock. The Company recently purchased a portfolio in a South American country exposing the Company to currency rate fluctuations. As a result of this purchase, the Company will be exposed to currency rate fluctuations as the collections on this portfolio will be denominated in the local currency of the South American country. Additionally, our investment could also be exposed to the same currency risk. A strengthened U.S. dollar could decrease the U.S. dollar equivalent of the local currency collections, and our currency conversion to U.S. dollars would suffer. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. The Company has received no written comments regarding its periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of its 2007 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 21 Table of Contents 