1A Risk Factors 17 ITEM 2 Properties 34 ITEM 3 Legal Proceedings 34 PART II ITEM 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 34 ITEM 6 Selected Financial Data 36 ITEM 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 37 ITEM 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk 44 ITEM 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 44 ITEM 9 Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosures 45 ITEM 9A Controls and Procedures 45 ITEM 9B Other Information 47 PART III ITEM 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 47 ITEM 11 Executive Compensation 47 ITEM 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 47 ITEM 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 47 ITEM 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 47 PART IV ITEM 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 48 This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains trademarks and trade names of TG Therapeutics, Inc., including our name and logo. All other trademarks, service marks, or trade names referenced in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are the property of their respective owners. SPECIAL CAUTIONARY NOTICE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain matters discussed in this report, including matters discussed under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” may constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from the future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. The words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "may," "expect" and similar expressions are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. Our actual results may differ materially from the results anticipated in these forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors, including, without limitation, those discussed under the captions “Risk Factors,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere in this report, as well as other factors which may be identified from time to time in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, or in the documents where such forward-looking statements appear. All written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to us are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about our: ·expectations for increases or decreases in expenses; ·expectations for the clinical and pre-clinical development, manufacturing, regulatory approval, and commercialization of our pharmaceutical product candidates or any other products we may acquire or in-license; ·use of clinical research centers and other contractors; ·expectations as to the timing of commencing or completing pre-clinical and clinical trials and the expected outcomes of those trials; ·expectations for incurring capital expenditures to expand our research and development and manufacturing capabilities; ·expectations for generating revenue or becoming profitable on a sustained basis; ·expectations or ability to enter into marketing and other partnership agreements; ·expectations or ability to enter into product acquisition and in-licensing transactions; ·expectations or ability to build our own commercial infrastructure to manufacture, market and sell our drug candidates; ·acceptance of our products by doctors, patients or payors; ·ability to compete against other companies and research institutions; ·ability to secure adequate protection for our intellectual property; ·ability to attract and retain key personnel; ·availability of reimbursement for our products; ·estimates of the sufficiency of our existing cash and cash equivalents and investments to finance our operating requirements, including expectations regarding the value and liquidity of our investments; ·stock price and its volatility; and ·expectations for future capital requirements. The forward-looking statements contained in this report reflect our views and assumptions only as of the date this report is signed. Except as required by law, we assume no responsibility for updating any forward-looking statements. We qualify all of our forward-looking statements by these cautionary statements. In addition, with respect to all of our forward-looking statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. 1 PART I Unless the context requires otherwise, references in this report to “TG,” “Company,” “we,” “us” and “our” refer to TG Therapeutics, Inc. and our subsidiaries. ITEM 1. BUSINESS. OVERVIEW We are a biopharmaceutical company focused on the acquisition, development and commercialization of novel treatments for B-cell malignancies and autoimmune diseases. Currently, the company is developing two therapies targeting hematological malignancies. TG-1101 (ublituximab) is a novel, glycoengineered monoclonal antibody that targets a specific and unique epitope on the CD20 antigen found on mature B-lymphocytes. TG Therapeutics is also developing TGR-1202, an orally available PI3K delta inhibitor. The delta isoform of PI3K is strongly expressed in cells of hematopoietic origin and is believed to be important in the proliferation and survival of B-lymphocytes. Both TG-1101 and TGR-1202 are in clinical development for patients with hematologic malignancies. The Company also has pre-clinical programs seeking to develop IRAK4 (interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 4) inhibitors and anti-PD-L1 and anti-GITR antibodies. We also actively evaluate complementary products, technologies and companies for in-licensing, partnership, acquisition and/or investment opportunities. To date, we have not received approval for the sale of any of our drug candidates in any market and, therefore, have not generated any product sales from our drug candidates. CORPORATE INFORMATION We were incorporated in Delaware in 1993. Our executive offices are located at 3 Columbus Circle, 15th Floor, New York, New York 10019. Our telephone number is 212-554-4484, and our e-mail address is info@tgtxinc.com. We maintain a website with the address www.tgtherapeutics.com. We make available free of charge through our Internet website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the SEC. We are not including the information on our website as a part of, nor incorporating it by reference into, this report. You may read and copy any such reports and amendments thereto at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549 on official business days during the hours of 10:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for information on the Public Reference Room. Additionally, the SEC maintains a website that contains annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other information that issuers (including us) file electronically with the SEC. The SEC’s website address is http://www.sec.gov. PRODUCTS UNDER DEVELOPMENT TG-1101 (ublituximab) Overview TG-1101 (ublituximab) is a chimeric, glycoengineered monoclonal antibody that targets a unique epitope on the CD20 antigen found on the surface of B-lymphocytes developed to aid in the depletion of circulating B-cells. We hold exclusive worldwide rights to develop and commercialize TG-1101 for all indications, except for the territories of France and Belgium which have been retained by LFB Biotechnologies (“LFB”), and South Korea and Southeast Asia which were licensed by us to Ildong Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd (“Ildong”) in November 2012. Generally, anti-CD20 antibodies are believed to exert their B-cell depleting effects through three primary mechanisms: antibody dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity (“ADCC”), complement dependent cytotoxicity (“CDC”), and direct or programmed cell death (“DCD” or “PCD”). TG-1101 has been specifically glycoengineered to enhance ADCC activity, which should enhance its ability to deplete B-cells and may improve its anti-cancer effects when compared to Rituxan®, the leading anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody, which had worldwide sales in 2014 of more than $8 billion. Two single-agent, dose-escalation, Phase I studies were undertaken with TG-1101 to establish an optimal dose in patients with Non-Hodgkin’s Lymphoma (“NHL”) and Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (“CLL”). A two part first-in-human Phase I clinical trial was first completed in France in which TG-1101 was evaluated in relapsed or refractory CLL patients at doses as high as 450mg per infusion. Subsequently, a single-agent Phase I study was undertaken in the US enrolling patients with both NHL and CLL, dosing patients up to 1200mg per infusion. In both studies, single agent therapy with TG-1101 was deemed well tolerated by treating investigators and displayed promising clinical activity in relapsed and refractory patients. 2 In oncology settings, anti-CD20 therapy is generally used in combination with other anti-cancer agents where it demonstrates maximum activity as opposed to single agent usage. As a result, subsequent clinical development for TG-1101 has focused on combination therapy. Currently, our priority combination trials for TG-1101 are: ·The GENUINE Trial – a randomized controlled Phase 3 trial evaluating TG-1101 in combination with ibrutinib, for previously treated CLL patients with high risk cytogenetics; ·The UNITY-CLL Trial – a randomized controlled Phase 3 trial evaluating TG-1101 in combination with TGR-1202, the Company’s development stage PI3Kδ inhibitor, for patients with front line and previously treated CLL; and ·TG-1101 + TGR-1202 + Pembrolizumab for patients with CLL. Manufacturing of TG-1101 is currently performed by our partner, LFB Biotechnologies and we are in the process of bringing a secondary manufacturer on line. Pre-Clinical Data Overview The mechanism of action of anti-CD20 antibodies, including rituximab and TG-1101 has been elucidated and detailed in numerous academic and clinical studies. Upon conjugation of the antibody to the CD20 surface antigen, rituximab has been found to deplete B-lymphocytes through three primary mechanisms: ADCC, CDC, and DCD or PCD. Antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity, or ADCC, is a mechanism that is dependent on interactions between the Fc region of the antibody and the FcγR receptors on immune system effector cells, most notably the FcγRIIIA (CD16) receptor found on NK cells. These interactions trigger cells to release cytotoxic molecules and proteases resulting in B-cell death. TG-1101 is a third generation, type I chimeric IgG1 monoclonal antibody with a glycoengineered Fc region designed specifically to induce higher ADCC activity in comparison to rituximab, which has been demonstrated in pre-clinical models. Clinical Data Overview and Recent Developments Single Agent TG-1101 in Relapsed/Refractory CLL A multicenter, open-label Phase I/Ib clinical trial of TG-1101 was completed which aimed to assess the safety, tolerability, and efficacy of TG-1101 in patients with relapsed or refractory CLL. This two part, first-in-man, dose escalating trial was conducted in nine centers in France with preliminary results presented at the 52nd and 53rd Annual American Society of Hematology (“ASH”) meetings, respectively. The study regimen in Part 1 involved 21 patients in five dosing cohorts receiving infusions of TG-1101 at a dose ranging from 5mg to 450mg once weekly over the course of four weeks. Part 2 of this study included 12 patients and evaluated the safety and efficacy profile of TG-1101 when administered in an 8-dose regimen (150mg initial dose, followed by seven doses of 450mg). TG-1101 was well tolerated with adverse events generally consistent with those exhibited by other anti-CD20 antibodies. In Part 2 of the study, rapid, near total blood lymphocyte depletion was observed in all patients. Overall response assessment at month four according to NCI-WG guidelines following treatment, TG-1101 was found to produce a durable partial response (“PR”) in 5/11 (45%) evaluable patients. Single Agent TG-1101 in Relapsed/Refractory NHL & CLL Our first US based trial entitled "An Open Label Phase I/II Trial of the Efficacy and Safety of TG-1101 in Patients with B-cell Non-Hodgkin’s Lymphoma who have Relapsed or are Refractory After CD20 Directed Antibody Therapy," was launched in the third quarter of 2012. In July 2014, this trial completed enrollment at 35 patients, of which 12 patients were included in the dose escalation component and 23 patients in various expansion cohorts. All enrolled patients were relapsed or refractory to Rituxan® or a Rituxan® containing regimen, and in most cases multiple other lines of therapy. Dr. Owen O'Connor, Professor of Medicine and Director, Center for Lymphoid Malignancies at New York Presbyterian Columbia Medical Center was the Principal Investigator for the multi-center study. Data from this study was presented at the 50th American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) 2014 Annual Meeting in Chicago, IL, and is summarized below: 3 TG-1101 was well tolerated at all dose levels tested in the 35 patients evaluable for safety, with Day 1 infusion related reactions (IRR) being the most frequently reported adverse event. The combined overall response rate (ORR) for the Phase 1 dose escalation component and expansion cohorts was 43% (30% PR, 13% CR) among the 30 rituximab relapsed/refractory patients evaluable for efficacy at the time of the presentation. TG-1101 displayed marked clinical activity as a single agent in a variety of lymphoma subtypes, reporting a 67% (4/6) response rate in patients with CLL and 44% (8/18) response rate in patients with indolent NHL (22% CR, 22% PR). Responses were durable, with a median duration of progression free survival (PFS) among patients who achieved SD or better not reached, and a median PFS for all patients on study of 34 weeks (n=30) at the time of the data presentation. TG-1101 in Combination with TGR-1202 for Relapsed/Refractory NHL & CLL In November 2013, we initiated a multi-center, Phase I study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the combination of TG-1101 and TGR-1202, the Company's novel, once per day, PI3Kδ inhibitor, for patients with relapsed and/or refractory CLL and NHL. In this study, dosing of TGR-1202 commenced at 800mg (initial formulation) once per day (QD) with dose escalation proceeding in a 3+3 design. Dose-escalation up to 1200mg micronized formulation has been completed and expansion cohorts are now being evaluated at various doses. Additional cohorts were added to this study to explore the triple therapy combination of TG-1101, TGR-1202, and ibrutinib. The MD Anderson Cancer Center is the lead center for the trial with Nathan Fowler, MD, Assistant Professor and Co-Director of Clinical Research in the Department of Lymphoma, as the Study Chair for the NHL patient group and Susan O’Brien, MD, formerly of MD Anderson and now Professor and Medical Director for Cancer Clinical Trials and Research at UC Irvine as the Study Chair for the CLL patient group. Preliminary data from this study was presented at the 57th Annual American Society of Hematology (ASH) meeting held in December 2015 and is summarized below: The combination of TG-1101 and TGR-1202 was well tolerated in the 71 patients evaluable for safety, with only 8% of patients discontinuing due to an adverse event. Notably, the only Grade 3/4 adverse event occurring in > 5% of patients was neutropenia. As of the data presentation, twenty-six patients had been on the combination of TG-1101 plus TGR-1202 for 6+ months, with no events of colitis reported. The combination displayed marked clinical activity in a variety of lymphoma subtypes, reporting an 80% (8/10) response rate in patients with CLL, a 71% (12/17) response rate in patients with indolent NHL, and a 35% (6/17) response rate in patients with DLBCL and Richter’s Transformation. The data from this study supports the current Phase 3 UNITY-CLL study of TG-1101 + TGR-1202 in CLL. TG-1101 in Combination with Ibrutinib for Relapsed/Refractory MCL & CLL In December 2013, we initiated a multi-center Phase 2 clinical trial to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the combination of TG-1101 and ibrutinib for patients with CLL and MCL. This is the first clinical trial evaluating the combination of TG-1101 and ibrutinib, an oral Bruton’s Tyrosine Kinase (BTK) inhibitor. TG Therapeutics partnered with the US Oncology Network and other select centers throughout the United States on the study, with Jeff Sharman, MD, Medical Director for Hematology Research, US Oncology Network, as the Study Chair. This trial has completed enrollment. Final data from this study was presented on the MCL cohort at the 57th Annual American Society of Hematology (ASH) meeting held in December 2015, and on the CLL cohort at the 13th International Congress on Malignant Lymphoma (ICML), held in June 2015 and is summarized below: In the CLL cohort, TG-1101 in combination with ibrutinib was well tolerated in the 44 patients evaluable for safety, with day 1 infusion related reactions (IRR) being the most frequently reported adverse event (regardless of causality). In the MCL cohort, the combination was well tolerated in the 15 patients evaluable for safety, with fatigue being the most frequently reported adverse event (regardless of causality). Overall, in both CLL and MCL, aside from day 1 IRR, the addition of TG-1101 did not appear to alter the safety profile seen historically with single agent ibrutinib. Of the 59 patients treated, 40 CLL and 15 MCL patients were evaluable for response. The combination displayed marked clinical activity, reporting an 88% (35/40) response rate in patients with CLL, a 95% (19/20) response rate in those CLL patients with high-risk cytogenetics, and an 87% (13/15) response rate in patients with MCL. The data from this study supports the current Phase 3 GENUINE study of TG-1101 + ibrutinib in previously treated CLL patients with high-risk cytogenetics. 4 TG-1101 + Ibrutinib Phase 3 Study Program – The GENUINE Trial We reached an agreement with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regarding a Special Protocol Assessment (SPA) on the design, endpoints and statistical analysis approach of a Phase 3 clinical trial for TG-1101 + ibrutinib for the treatment of previously treated CLL patients with high risk cytogenetics. The SPA provides agreement that the Phase 3 trial design adequately addresses objectives that would support the regulatory submission for drug approval. The Phase 3 trial, named the GENUINE trial, is a randomized controlled clinical trial, with patients receiving either TG-1101 plus ibrutinib or ibrutinib alone. The trial will enroll approximately 330 patients, with the first 200 patients evaluated for overall response rate (ORR), and all patients followed for progression-free survival (PFS). As per the SPA, if the data is positive, we plan to use the ORR data from the trial as the basis for submission of a Biologics License Application (BLA) for accelerated approval for TG-1101, with the PFS assessment intended to support a filing for full approval. TG-1101 in Combination with TGR-1202 Phase 3 Study Program – The UNITY-CLL Trial In September 2015, we reached an agreement with the FDA regarding an SPA on the design, endpoints and statistical analysis approach of a Phase 3 clinical trial for the proprietary combination of TG-1101 plus TGR-1202, for the treatment of CLL. The SPA provides agreement that the Phase 3 trial design adequately addresses objectives that, if met, would support the regulatory submission for drug approval of both TG-1101 and TGR-1202 in combination. The Phase 3 trial, called the UNITY-CLL trial, is a randomized controlled clinical trial that includes two key objectives: first, to demonstrate contribution of each agent in the TG-1101 + TGR-1202 regimen (the combination sometimes referred to as "1303"), and second, to demonstrate superiority in Progression Free Survival (PFS) over the standard of care to support the submission for full approval of the combination. The study will randomize patients into four treatment arms: TG-1101 + TGR-1202, TG-1101 alone, TGR-1202 alone, and an active control arm of obinutuzumab (GAZYVA®) + chlorambucil. An early interim analysis will assess contribution of each single agent in the TG-1101 + TGR-1202 combination regimen, which, if successful, will allow early termination of both single agent arms. A second interim analysis will be conducted following full enrollment into the study, which, if positive, we plan to utilize for accelerated approval. Assuming early termination of the TG-1101 and TGR-1202 single agent arms, the study will enroll approximately 450 patients. TGR-1202 Overview The phosphoinositide-3-kinases (“PI3Ks”) are a family of enzymes involved in various cellular functions, including cell proliferation and survival, cell differentiation, intracellular trafficking, and immunity. There are four isoforms of PI3K (alpha, beta, delta, and gamma), of which the delta (δ) isoform is strongly expressed in cells of hematopoietic origin, and often implicated in B-cell related lymphomas. TGR-1202 is an orally available PI3K delta inhibitor with nanomolar potency to the delta isoform and high selectivity over the alpha, beta, and gamma isoforms. TGR-1202 has demonstrated activity in several pre-clinical models and primary cells from patients with various hematologic malignancies. We hold exclusive rights to develop and commercialize TGR-1202 for all indications worldwide, except India which has been retained by Rhizen Pharmaceuticals, SA. The Company’s Investigational New Drug (“IND”) application for TGR-1202 was accepted by the FDA in December 2012 and a first in-human Phase I clinical trial was initiated in January 2013. Pre-Clinical Data Overview In an enzyme based assay, TGR-1202 demonstrated potency and specificity towards PI3Kδ with >1000, 50 and 48-fold selectivity over the α, β, and γ PI3K isoforms. 5 Figure 1: Potency and Specificity of TGR-1202 towards PI3K Delta Clinical Data Overview and Recent Developments Initial clinical development of TGR-1202 was focused on establishing preliminary safety and efficacy in a wide variety of hematologic malignancies. Upon identification of safe and active doses of TGR-1202, a combination clinical trial program was opened, exploring TGR-1202 in combination with a variety of agents. In addition to the previously described study in combination with TG-1101 with or without the BTK inhibitor, ibrutinib, our current combination clinical trials for TGR-1202 are: ·TGR-1202 in combination with the anti-CD20 antibody, obinutuzumab (GAZYVA®) and chlorambucil in patients with CLL; ·TGR-1202 in combination with the anti-CD30 antibody drug conjugate, brentuximab vedotin (ADCETRIS®), in patients with relapsed or refractory Hodgkin’s lymphoma; ·TGR-1202 in combination with the BTK inhibitor, ibrutinib, in patients with previously treated CLL and MCL; and ·TGR-1202 in combination with the JAK inhibitor, ruxolitinib (JAKAFI®), in patients with previously treated Myelofibrosis or Polycythemia Vera. Single Agent TGR-1202 in Patients with Relapsed/Refractory Hematologic Malignancies In January 2013, the Company initiated a Phase I, open label, multi-center, first-in-human clinical trial of TGR-1202 in patients with hematologic malignancies. The study entitled TGR-1202-101, "A Phase I Dose Escalation Study Evaluating the Safety and Efficacy of TGR-1202 in Patients with Relapsed or Refractory Hematologic Malignancies," is being run in collaboration with the Sarah Cannon Research Institute in Nashville, TN with Howard “Skip” Burris, MD, Executive Director, Drug Development as the acting Study Chair. Enrollment is open to patients with relapsed or refractory NHL, CLL, and other select hematologic malignancies. As of February 2016, this study has closed to enrollment. Data from this ongoing Phase I study was most recently presented at the 57th Annual American Society of Hematology (ASH) meeting held in December 2015, and is summarized below: Overall, TGR-1202 was considered to be well-tolerated in the 81 patients evaluable for safety, with only 7% of patients discontinuing due to an adverse event. Limited Grade 3/4 adverse events were reported with anemia and neutropenia (each 9%) being the only grade 3/4 adverse events reported in greater than 5% of patients. Long-term safety has been well characterized with 47% (38 of 81) of patients on study more than 6 months, 27% (22 of 81) of patients on study more than 12 months, and the longest exposed to drug for more than 2.5 years. Of the 81 patients treated, 63 patients were evaluable for efficacy analysis, having been treated at therapeutic dose levels. TGR-1202 displayed marked clinical activity, reporting a 59% (10/17) response rate in patients with CLL (with a 94% nodal PR rate (16/17), and 75% (12/16) of follicular lymphoma patients demonstrated tumor reductions with a preliminary ORR of 38% (6/16). TGR-1202 in Combination with obinutuzumab and chlorambucil in patients with CLL In March 2014, the Company initiated a Phase I/Ib, open label, multi-center, clinical trial of TGR-1202 in combination with obinutuzumab and chlorambucil in patients with CLL, both treatment naïve and relapsed. The study entitled TGR-GA-106, " A Multi-center Phase I/Ib Study Evaluating the Efficacy and Safety of TGR-1202, a Novel PI3K Delta Inhibitor, in Combination with Obinutuzumab and Chlorambucil in Patients with Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (CLL)," is being led by Dr. Daruka Mahadevan of the West Clinic in Memphis, TN. As of February 2016, this study has completed enrollment. Data from study was presented at the 57th Annual American Society of Hematology (ASH) meeting held in December 2015, and is summarized below: 6 Overall, the combination of TGR-1202, obinutuzumab and chlorambucil demonstrated acceptable tolerability, but notably differed from the toxicity profile observed with TGR-1202 and TG-1101 in patients with relapsed refractor CLL, specifically regarding neutropenia (78% vs. 30%), thrombocytopenia (78% vs. < 10%), and transaminase elevations (39% vs. 8%). TGR-1202 with obinutuzumab and chlorambucil reported a 95% (17/18) ORR in patients with CLL (with a 100% (15/15) ORR in those patients that were treatment naïve). TGR-1202 Combination Trials TGR-1202 is being evaluated in combination with the anti-CD30 antibody drug conjugate, brentuximab vedotin, in patients with relapsed or refractory Hodgkin’s lymphoma; in combination with the BTK inhibitor, ibrutinib, in patients with CLL and MCL; and in combination with the JAK inhibitor, ruxolitinib, in patients with Myelofibrosis or Polycythemia Vera. It is anticipated that preliminary results from these studies will be presented at future medical conferences. TGR-1202 in Solid Tumors In addition to the exploration of TGR-1202 in various hematologic malignancies, a study was opened in October 2015 to evaluate TGR-1202 as a single agent as well as in combination with various chemotherapies for the treatment of select solid tumors. The study, entitled TGR-1202-102, “A Phase I Study Evaluating the Safety and Efficacy of TGR-1202 Alone and in Combination with either nab-paclitaxel + Gemcitabine or with FOLFOX in Patients with Select Relapsed or Refractory Solid Tumors” is being run in collaboration with the Sarah Cannon Research Institute in Nashville, TN with Johanna Bendell, MD, Director of GI Oncology Research as the acting study chair. Market Opportunity for TG-1101 & TGR-1202 Our lead products under development, TG-1101 and TGR-1202 are for the treatment of B-cell hematologic malignancies. Hematologic malignancies include cancers derived from the bone marrow and lymph tissue. The non-Hodgkin’s lymphomas (NHL) represent a heterogeneous subset of these malignancies. Underneath the single rubric of lymphoma exist some of the most aggressive growing cancers (Burkitt’s lymphoma, lymphoblastic lymphoma, diffuse large-B-cell lymphoma), as well as some of the most indolent (small lymphocytic lymphoma, follicular lymphoma, and marginal zone lymphoma). In the United States, NHL represents 4-5% of all new cancer cases, and is the eighth leading cause of cancer death. According to the American Cancer Society, it is estimated in 2016 that there will be 72,580 new cases in the United States, and 20,150 deaths from NHL, despite improvements in treatment. Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) affects mainly older adults and accounts for one third of all diagnosed cases of leukemia. In the US, an estimated 18,960 new cases of CLL will be reported in 2016 with deaths totaling 4,660 due to the disease according to American Cancer Society estimates. Despite improvements in therapy, up to one third of patients with aggressive NHL continue to die from their disease, and indolent lymphomas remain incurable in the absence of allogeneic stem cell transplant. The treatment paradigm for hematologic malignancies is well standardized in front line settings, with the anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody, rituximab, administered generally in combination with chemotherapeutic agents. While front line therapies are generally efficacious, there are numerous downsides, including a high rate of toxicity associated with exposure to chemotherapeutic agents. While initially responsive, most patients with hematologic malignancies will eventually relapse and require second, third, and sometimes more lines of therapy. As a result, there is a pressing need for new, innovative, targeted therapies for the treatment of this heterogeneous group of diseases. Anti-CD20 antibodies have been approved and studied in a variety of diseases falling into several therapeutic areas including oncology, autoimmune disorders, and neurologic disease. NHL and CLL are the most common B-cell proliferative diseases for which rituximab, the first anti-CD20 antibody approved by the FDA, is the current gold standard treatment. While the addition of rituximab to chemotherapeutic treatment of NHL has dramatically improved patient outcomes, many patients will relapse or become refractory to rituximab containing regimens. Rituximab resistance is becoming an increasing concern for clinicians as relapsing patients are exposed to multiple lines of rituximab containing regimens to treat recurrence of disease. It is estimated that over half of patients initially responsive to their first exposure to rituximab do not respond upon retreatment (Davis et al, 2000). We believe these factors contribute to an immediate and sustained need for an anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody that is differentiated and potentially therapeutically superior to the gold standard rituximab in order to extend and enhance CD20 therapy as it stands today. 7 In addition to anti-CD20 therapy, novel targeted agents are now being introduced which target specific signaling pathways and enzymes known to exhibit aberrant activity and overexpression in B-cell malignancies such as Bruton’s Tyrosine Kinase (BTK), and Phosphoinositide-3-Kinase delta (PI3K delta). The PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway has been the target of numerous pharmaceutical agents, both approved and in development, however only recently has the delta isoform of PI3K been identified as a potential target for the treatment of hematologic malignancies and other B-cell lymphoproliferative disorders. Idelalisib (ZYDELIG™), a PI3K delta specific inhibitor from Gilead Pharmaceuticals, was approved by the FDA in 2014 for patients with CLL and indolent NHL. Duvelisib (also known as IPI-145), a PI3K delta and gamma specific inhibitor under development by Infinity Pharmaceuticals has also shown preliminary activity in hematologic malignancies of both B- and T-cell origin. Other agents targeting kinases downstream of the B-cell receptor, such as the BTK inhibitor, ibrutinib, have displayed high rates of response in patients with relapsed and refractory B-cell malignancies and have been recently approved for these indications. While these agents have demonstrated high levels of single agent activity in B-cell disorders, their clinical activity has been shown to be greatly enhanced when utilized in combination with anti-CD20 agents. As novel targeted agents gain FDA approval for the treatment of relapsed and refractory disease, it is anticipated that the size of this market will expand greatly as branded drugs enter use in multiple lines of therapy. Given the nature of the disease state for patients with hematologic malignancies, characterized by indolent disease progression and chronic relapses, the Company anticipates a great and growing need for novel agents that can be used alone or in combination with approved agents, and those currently under development to enhance the quality of life and extend the length of survival for patients suffering from hematologic malignancies. IRAK4 Interleukin-1 Receptor Associated Kinase 4, referred to as IRAK4, is a key signaling kinase that becomes inappropriately activated in tumors that carry certain oncogenic mutations of MYD88, which can be found in most patients with Waldenström's Macroglobulinemia, a rare B-cell cancer, as well as in a sub-set of patients with Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma and Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia. Additionally, IRAK4 is a key component of signaling pathways which regulate immune and inflammatory processes suggesting that inhibition of IRAK4 may also be useful in the treatment of autoimmune related disorders. We hold global rights to develop and commercialize the IRAK4 program, which was licensed from Ligand Pharmaceuticals. Our IRAK4 program is currently in pre-clinical development. In April 2015, we presented pre-clinical data on the IRAK4 compounds at the 2015 American Association for Cancer Research (AACR) Annual Meeting held in Philadelphia, PA. PD-L1 and GITR In March 2015, we entered into a global collaboration agreement for the development and commercialization of anti-PD-L1 and anti-GITR antibody research programs in the field of hematological malignancies. Our anti-PD-L1 and anti-GITR programs are currently in pre-clinical development. COSTS AND TIME TO COMPLETE PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT The information below provides estimates regarding the costs associated with the completion of the current development phase and our current estimated range of the time that will be necessary to complete that development phase for our key pipeline products. We also direct your attention to the risk factors which could significantly affect our ability to meet these cost and time estimates found in this report in Item 1A under the heading “Risks Related to the Company’s Business and Industry.” Product candidate Target indication Development status Completion of phase Estimated cost to complete phase TG-1101 (ublituximab) In combination with ibrutinib in previously treated high-risk CLL patients Phase III 2017* Approximately $10 million TG-1101 & TGR-1202 In combination in CLL patients Phase III 2018** Approximately $15 million *Completion of phase for this study indicates completion of Part I of the study, the ORR endpoint, which, if successful, would support an accelerated approval ** Completion of phase for this study indicates completion of portion of study, which, if successful, would support an accelerated approval Completion dates and costs in the above table are estimates due to the uncertainties associated with clinical trials and the related requirements of development. In the cases where the requirements for clinical trials and development programs have not been fully defined, or are dependent on the success of other trials, we cannot estimate trial completion or cost with any certainty. The actual spending on each trial during the year is also dependent on funding. We therefore direct your attention to Item 7 under the heading “Liquidity and Capital Resources.” 8 INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND PATENTS General Our goal is to obtain, maintain and enforce patent protection for our products, formulations, processes, methods and other proprietary technologies, preserve our trade secrets, and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of other parties, both in the United States and in other countries. Our policy is to actively seek to obtain, where appropriate, the broadest intellectual property protection possible for our product candidates, proprietary information and proprietary technology through a combination of contractual arrangements and patents, both in the U.S. and elsewhere in the world. We also depend upon the skills, knowledge and experience of our scientific and technical personnel, as well as that of our advisors, consultants and other contractors. This knowledge and experience we call “know-how.” To help protect our proprietary know-how which is not patentable, and for inventions for which patents may be difficult to enforce, we rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect our interests. To this end, we require all employees, consultants, advisors and other contractors to enter into confidentiality agreements which prohibit the disclosure of confidential information and, where applicable, require disclosure and assignment to us of the ideas, developments, discoveries and inventions important to our business. Patents and other proprietary rights are crucial to the development of our business. We will be able to protect our proprietary technologies from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary rights are covered by valid and enforceable patents, supported by regulatory exclusivity or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. We have a number of patents and patent applications related to our compounds and other technology, but we cannot guarantee the scope of protection of the issued patents, or that such patents will survive a validity or enforceability challenge, or that any of the pending patent applications will issue as patents. Generally, patent applications in the U.S. are maintained in secrecy for a period of 18 months or more. Since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lag behind actual discoveries, we are not certain that we were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications or that we were the first to file those patent applications. The patent positions of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Therefore, we cannot predict the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology and pharmaceutical patents, or their enforceability. To date, there has been no consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents. Third parties or competitors may challenge or circumvent our patents or patent applications, if issued. If our competitors prepare and file patent applications in the U.S. that claim technology also claimed by us, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention, which could result in substantial cost, even if the eventual outcome is favorable to us. Because of the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of a potential product, it is possible that before we commercialize any of our products, any related patent may expire or remain in existence for only a short period following commercialization, thus reducing any advantage of the patent. However, the life of a patent covering a product that has been subject to regulatory approval may have the ability to be extended through the patent restoration program, although any such extension could still be minimal. If a patent is issued to a third party containing one or more preclusive or conflicting claims, and those claims are ultimately determined to be valid and enforceable, we may be required to obtain a license under such patent or to develop or obtain alternative technology. In the event of litigation involving a third party claim, an adverse outcome in the litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to such third party, require us to seek a license for the disputed rights from such third party, and/or require us to cease use of the technology. Further, our breach of an existing license or failure to obtain a license to technology required to commercialize our products may seriously harm our business. We also may need to commence litigation to enforce any patents issued to us or to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights. Litigation would involve substantial costs. TG-1101 Pursuant to our license for TG-1101 (ublituximab) with LFB Biotechnologies, GTC Biotherapeutics, and LFB/GTC LLC, we have the exclusive commercial rights to a series of patents and patent applications in the U.S. and in multiple countries around the world, as well as a non-exclusive license to additional background patent rights. These patents and patent protections include composition of matter patents relating to the structure and mechanism of action for TG-1101 as well as method of use patents which cover use of TG-1101 in combination with various agents and for various therapeutic indications. 9 In the United States, we have, through our license agreement, access to 12 issued patent and 6 patent applications covering TG-1101 which expire between 2021 and 2033, excluding any patent term extensions, as well as granted and pending foreign counterpart patent filings related to these patent families. These patents include claims related to the manufacture and use of TG-1101. Additionally, we have over 30 granted patents outside the US, and over 25 patent applications pending worldwide also including claims directed to the composition of matter and methods of treatment with TG-1101 in various settings. TGR-1202 Pursuant to our license for TGR-1202 with Rhizen, we have the exclusive commercial rights to a series of patent applications in the U.S. and abroad. The patent applications include composition of matter patents relating to the structure, mechanism of action, and formulation for TGR-1202 as well as method of use patents which cover use of TGR-1202 in combination with various agents and for various therapeutic indications. Our composition of matter patent for TGR-1202 has been issued in the United States, which affords patent protection until 2033, exclusive of patent term extensions. All other patent applications currently filed for TG-1202 are currently pending. Because the dates for any potential regulatory approval are currently unknown we cannot predict the expected expiration date, and it is possible that the life of these patents following regulatory approval could be minimal. IRAK4 Pursuant to our license for the IRAK4 program with Ligand, we have the exclusive commercial rights to a patent family which covers the composition of matter and proposed methods of use for various therapeutic indications. All patent applications currently filed for the IRAK4 program are currently pending. Because the date for any potential regulatory approval is currently unknown we cannot predict the expected expiration date, and it is possible that the life of these patents following regulatory approval could be minimal. The patent rights that we own or have licensed relating to our product candidates are limited in ways that may affect our ability to exclude third parties from competing against us if we obtain regulatory approval to market these product candidates. See “Item 1A – Risk Factors — Risks Related to the Company’s Intellectual Property.” Proof of direct infringement by a competitor for method of use patents can prove difficult because the competitors making and marketing a product typically do not engage in the patented use. Additionally, proof that a competitor contributes to or induces infringement of a patented method of use by another can also prove difficult because an off-label use of a product could prohibit a finding of contributory infringement and inducement of infringement requires proof of intent by the competitor. Moreover, physicians may prescribe such a competitive identical product for indications other than the one for which the product has been approved, or off-label indications, that are covered by the applicable patents. Although such off-label prescriptions may directly infringe or contribute to or induce infringement of method of use patents, such infringement is difficult to prevent or prosecute. In addition, the limited patent protection described above may adversely affect the value of our product candidates and may inhibit our ability to obtain a corporate partner at terms acceptable to us, if at all. Other Intellectual Property Rights We depend upon trademarks, trade secrets, know-how and continuing technological advances to develop and maintain our competitive position. To maintain the confidentiality of trade secrets and proprietary information, we require our employees, scientific advisors, consultants and collaborators, upon commencement of a relationship with us, to execute confidentiality agreements and, in the case of parties other than our research and development collaborators, to agree to assign their inventions to us. These agreements are designed to protect our proprietary information and to grant us ownership of technologies that are developed in connection with their relationship with us. These agreements may not, however, provide protection for our trade secrets in the event of unauthorized disclosure of such information. In addition to patent protection, we may utilize orphan drug regulations or other provisions of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act of 1938, as amended, or FDCA, to provide market exclusivity for certain of our drug candidates. Orphan drug regulations provide incentives to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to develop and manufacture drugs for the treatment of rare diseases, currently defined as diseases that exist in fewer than 200,000 individuals in the U.S., or, diseases that affect more than 200,000 individuals in the U.S. but that the sponsor does not realistically anticipate will generate a net profit. Under these provisions, a manufacturer of a designated orphan-drug can seek tax benefits, and the holder of the first FDA approval of a designated orphan product will be granted a seven-year period of marketing exclusivity for such FDA-approved orphan product. 10 Pursuant to these regulations, TG-1101 (ublituximab) has received Orphan-Drug designation from the FDA for the treatment of Marginal Zone Lymphoma (Nodal and Extranodal) in September 2013, for the treatment of CLL in August of 2010, and Orphan-Drug designation by the European Medicines Agency (“EMA”) for the treatment of CLL in November of 2009. We believe that TG-1101 may be eligible for additional orphan drug designations; however, we cannot assure you that TG-1101, or any other drug candidates we may acquire or in-license, will obtain such orphan drug designations. Additionally, upon FDA approval, we believe that TG-1101 would qualify as a New Chemical Entity, or NCE, which provides for five years of exclusivity following approval. We cannot assure you that any other drug candidates we may acquire or in-license, will obtain such orphan drug designation or that we will be the first to receive FDA approval for such drugs so as to be eligible for market exclusivity protection. LICENSING AGREEMENTS AND COLLABORATIONS We have formed strategic alliances with a number of companies for the manufacture and commercialization of our products. Our current key strategic alliances are discussed below. TG-1101 LFB Biotechnologies S.A.S, GTC Biotherapeutics, LFB/GTC LLC. In January 2012, we entered into an exclusive license agreement with LFB Biotechnologies, GTC Biotherapeutics, and LFB/GTC LLC, all wholly-owned subsidiaries of LFB Group, relating to the development of TG-1101. Under the license agreement, we have acquired the exclusive worldwide rights (exclusive of France/Belgium) for the development and commercialization of TG-1101 (ublituximab). To date, we have made no payments to LFB Group and LFB Group is eligible to receive payments of up to an aggregate of approximately $31.0 million upon our successful achievement of certain clinical development, regulatory and sales milestones, in addition to royalty payments on net sales of TG-1101 at a royalty rate that escalates from mid-single digits to high-single digits. The license will terminate on a country by country basis upon the expiration of the last licensed patent right or 15 years after the first commercial sale of a product in such country, unless the agreement is earlier terminated (i) by LFB if the Company challenges any of the licensed patent rights, (ii) by either party due to a breach of the agreement, or (iii) by either party in the event of the insolvency of the other party. Ildong Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. In November 2012, we entered into an exclusive (within the territory) sublicense agreement with Ildong relating to the development and commercialization of TG-1101 in South Korea and Southeast Asia. Under the terms of the sublicense agreement, Ildong has been granted a royalty bearing, exclusive right, including the right to grant sublicenses, to develop and commercialize TG-1101 in South Korea, Taiwan, Singapore, Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, Philippines, Vietnam, and Myanmar. To date, we have received $2 million in the form of an upfront payment from Ildong, and are eligible to receive sales based milestone payments up to an aggregate of $5 million and royalty payments on net sales of TG-1101 at a royalty rate that escalates from mid-teens to high-teens upon approval in South Korea and/or Southeast Asia. The license will terminate on a country by country basis upon the expiration of the last licensed patent right or 15 years after the first commercial sale of a product in such country, unless the agreement is earlier terminated (i) by Ildong if the Company challenges any of the licensed patent rights, (ii) by either party due to a breach of the agreement, or (iii) by either party in the event of the insolvency of the other party. TGR-1202 In September 2014, we exercised our option to license the global rights to TGR-1202, thereby entering into an exclusive licensing agreement (the “TGR-1202 License”) with Rhizen Pharmaceuticals, S A (“Rhizen”) for the development and commercialization of TGR-1202. Prior to this, we had been jointly developing TGR-1202 in a 50:50 joint venture with Rhizen. 11 Under the terms of the TGR-1202 License, Rhizen received a $4.0 million cash payment and 371,530 shares of our common stock as an upfront license fee. With respect to TGR-1202, Rhizen will be eligible to receive regulatory filing, approval and sales based milestone payments in the aggregate of approximately $175 million, a small portion of which will be payable on the first New Drug Application (NDA) filing and the remainder on approval in multiple jurisdictions for up to two oncology indications and one non-oncology indication and attaining certain sales milestones. In addition, if TGR-1202 is co-formulated with another drug to create a new product (a "New Product"), Rhizen will be eligible to receive similar regulatory approval and sales based milestone payments for such New Product. Additionally, Rhizen will be entitled to tiered royalties that escalate from high single digits to low double digits on our future net sales of TGR-1202 and any New Product. In lieu of sales milestones and royalties on net sales, Rhizen shall also be eligible to participate in sublicensing revenue, if any, based on a percentage that decreases as a function of the number of patients treated in clinical trials following the exercise of the license option. Rhizen will retain global manufacturing rights to TGR-1202, provided that they are price competitive with alternative manufacturers. The license will terminate on a country by country basis upon the expiration of the last licensed patent right or any other exclusivity right in such country, unless the agreement is earlier terminated (i) by us for any reason, (ii) by either party due to a breach of the agreement. IRAK4 In June 2014, we entered into an exclusive licensing agreement with Ligand Pharmaceuticals Incorporated ("Ligand") for the development and commercialization of Ligand's interleukin-1 receptor associated kinase-4 ("IRAK4") inhibitor technology, which currently is in preclinical development for potential use against certain cancers and autoimmune diseases. IRAK4 is a serine/threonine protein kinase that is a key downstream signaling component of the interleukin-1 receptor and multiple toll-like receptors. Under the terms of the license agreement, Ligand received 125,000 shares of our common stock as an upfront license fee. Ligand will also be eligible to receive maximum potential milestone payments of approximately $207 million upon the achievement of specific clinical, regulatory and commercial milestone events. Additionally, Ligand will be entitled to royalties on our future net sales of licensed products containing IRAK4 inhibitors. The basic royalty rate for licensed products covered by Ligand's issued patents will be 6% for annual sales of up to $1 billion and 9.5% for annual sales in excess of that threshold. The license will terminate on a country by country basis upon the expiration of the last licensed patent right or 10 years after the first commercial sale of a product in such country, unless the agreement is earlier terminated by either party due to a breach of the agreement in the event of the insolvency of the other party. PD-L1 and GITR In March 2015, we entered into a Global Collaboration (the “Collaboration”) with Checkpoint Therapeutics, Inc. (“Checkpoint”), a subsidiary of Fortress Biotech, Inc. (“FBIO”) for the development and commercialization of Checkpoint’s anti-PD-L1 and anti-GITR antibody research programs in the field of hematological malignancies. Under the terms of the Collaboration, we will make an up-front payment of $500,000 as well as make development and sales-based milestone payments up to an aggregate of $164 million, and will pay a tiered single digit royalty on net sales. The royalty term will terminate on a country by country basis upon the later of (i) ten years after the first commercial sale of any applicable licensed product in such country, or (ii) the expiration of the last-to-expire patent held by Dana Farber containing a valid claim to any licensed product in such country. COMPETITION Competition in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries is intense. Our competitors include pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies, as well as universities and public and private research institutions. In addition, companies that are active in different but related fields represent substantial competition for us. Many of our competitors have significantly greater capital resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities and greater experience in drug development, regulation, manufacturing and marketing than we do. These organizations also compete with us to recruit qualified personnel, attract partners for joint ventures or other collaborations, and license technologies that are competitive with ours. To compete successfully in this industry we must identify novel and unique drugs or methods of treatment and then complete the development of those drugs as treatments in advance of our competitors. The drugs that we are attempting to develop will have to compete with existing therapies. In addition, a large number of companies are pursuing the development of pharmaceuticals that target the same diseases and conditions that we are targeting. Other companies have products or drug candidates in various stages of pre-clinical or clinical development to treat diseases for which we are also seeking to discover and develop drug candidates. Some of these potential competing drugs are further advanced in development than our drug candidates and may be commercialized earlier. 12 If approved, we expect TG-1101 to compete directly with Roche Group’s Rituxan® (rituximab) and Gazyva® (obinutuzumab), and Genmab and GlaxoSmithKline’s Arzerra® (ofatumumab) among others, each of which is currently approved for the treatment of various diseases including NHL and CLL. In addition, other pharmaceutical companies are developing anti-CD20 antibodies which, if approved, would potentially compete with TG-1101. New developments, including the development of other pharmaceutical technologies and methods of treating disease, occur in the pharmaceutical and life sciences industries at a rapid pace. With respect to TGR-1202, if approved, we expect to compete directly with Gilead’s Zydelig™ (idelalisib), as well as with other PI3K delta inhibitors which are currently in development, which, if approved, would potentially compete with TGR-1202, such as Infinity Pharmaceuticals’ duvelisib (IPI-145). In addition, there are numerous other novel therapies targeting similar pathways to TGR-1202 in development, which would also compete with TGR-1202 in similar indications, such as the BTK inhibitor, ibrutinib (FDA approved for Mantle Cell Lymphoma, CLL, and Waldenstrom’s Macroglobulinemia marketed by AbbVie and Janssen), the BTK inhibitor acalabrutinib or ACP-196 (under clinical development by AstraZeneca), or the BCL-2 inhibitor venetoclax or ABT-199 (under clinical development by AbbVie and Roche), among others. Additional information can be found under Item 1A - Risk Factors – Other Risks Related to Our Business within this report. SUPPLY AND MANUFACTURING We have limited experience in manufacturing products for clinical or commercial purposes. We currently do not have any manufacturing capabilities. We have established contract manufacturing relationships for the supply of TG-1101 as part of our license agreement with LFB Biotechnologies. We have also established contract manufacturing relationships for the supply of TGR-1202 as part of our licensing agreement with Rhizen, and contract manufacturing relationships to support our IRAK4 development program. As with any supply program, obtaining pre-clinical and clinical materials of sufficient quality and quantity to meet the requirements of our development programs cannot be guaranteed and we cannot ensure that we will be successful in this endeavor. In addition, we anticipate the need for the current scale of production for each of our products to be significantly expanded as we enter later stages of development. There can be no assurance given that such scale-up will be successful in providing pharmaceutical product that is of sufficient quantity, or of a quality that is consistent with our previously established specifications, or that meets the requirements set by regulatory agencies under which we may seek approval of our product candidates. At the time of commercial sale, to the extent possible and commercially practicable, we would seek to engage a back-up supplier for each of our product candidates. Until such time, we expect that we will rely on a single contract manufacturer to produce each of our product candidates under current Good Manufacturing Practice, or cGMP, regulations. Our third-party manufacturers have a limited number of facilities in which our product candidates can be produced and will have limited experience in manufacturing our product candidates in quantities sufficient for commercialization. Our third-party manufacturers will have other clients and may have other priorities that could affect their ability to perform the work satisfactorily and/or on a timely basis. Both of these occurrences would be beyond our control. We expect to similarly rely on contract manufacturing relationships for any products that we may in-license or acquire in the future. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully contract with such manufacturers on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Contract manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic and unannounced inspections by the FDA, the Drug Enforcement Administration and corresponding state agencies to ensure strict compliance with cGMP and other state and federal regulations. Our contractors outside of the United States face similar challenges from the numerous local and regional agencies and authorized bodies. We do not have control over third-party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards, other than through contractual obligations. If they are deemed out of compliance with cGMPs, product recalls could result, inventory could be destroyed, production could be stopped and supplies could be delayed or otherwise disrupted. If we need to change manufacturers after commercialization, the FDA and corresponding foreign regulatory agencies must approve these new manufacturers in advance, which will involve testing and additional inspections to ensure compliance with FDA regulations and standards and may require significant lead times and delay. Furthermore, switching manufacturers may be difficult because the number of potential manufacturers is limited. It may be difficult or impossible for us to find a replacement manufacturer quickly or on terms acceptable to us, or at all. 13 GOVERNMENT AND INDUSTRY REGULATION Numerous governmental authorities, principally the FDA and corresponding state and foreign regulatory agencies, impose substantial regulations upon the clinical development, manufacture and marketing of our drug candidates, as well as our ongoing research and development activities. None of our drug candidates have been approved for sale in any market in which we have marketing rights. Before marketing in the U.S., any drug that we develop must undergo rigorous pre-clinical testing and clinical trials and an extensive regulatory approval process implemented by the FDA under the FDCA. The FDA regulates, among other things, the pre-clinical and clinical testing, safety, efficacy, approval, manufacturing, record keeping, adverse event reporting, packaging, labeling, storage, advertising, promotion, export, sale and distribution of biopharmaceutical products. The regulatory review and approval process is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. We are required to submit extensive pre-clinical and clinical data and supporting information to the FDA for each indication or use to establish a drug candidate’s safety and efficacy before we can secure FDA approval to market or sell a product in the U.S. The approval process takes many years, requires the expenditure of substantial resources and may involve ongoing requirements for post-marketing studies or surveillance. Before commencing clinical trials in humans, we must submit an IND to the FDA containing, among other things, pre-clinical data, chemistry, manufacturing and control information, and an investigative plan. Our submission of an IND may not result in FDA authorization to commence a clinical trial. The FDA may permit expedited development, evaluation, and marketing of new therapies intended to treat persons with serious or life-threatening conditions for which there is an unmet medical need under its fast track drug development programs. A sponsor can apply for fast track designation at the time of submission of an IND, or at any time prior to receiving marketing approval of the new drug application, or NDA. To receive Fast Track designation, an applicant must demonstrate: ·that the drug is intended to treat a serious or life-threatening condition; ·that the drug is intended to treat a serious aspect of the condition; and ·that the drug has the potential to address unmet medical needs, and this potential is being evaluated in the planned drug development program. The FDA must respond to a request for fast track designation within 60 calendar days of receipt of the request. Over the course of drug development, a product in a fast track development program must continue to meet the criteria for fast track designation. Sponsors of products in fast track drug development programs must be in regular contact with the reviewing division of the FDA to ensure that the evidence necessary to support marketing approval will be developed and presented in a format conducive to an efficient review. Sponsors of products in fast track drug development programs ordinarily are eligible for priority review of a completed application in six months or less and also may be permitted to submit portions of a New Drug Application (“NDA”) to the FDA for review before the complete application is submitted. Sponsors of drugs designated as fast track also may seek approval under the FDA’s accelerated approval regulations. Under this authority, the FDA may grant marketing approval for a new drug product on the basis of adequate and well-controlled clinical trials establishing that the drug product has an effect on a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely, based on epidemiologic, therapeutic, pathophysiologic, or other evidence, to predict clinical benefit or on the basis of an effect on a clinical endpoint other than survival or irreversible morbidity. Approval will be subject to the requirement that the applicant study the drug further to verify and describe its clinical benefit where there is uncertainty as to the relation of the surrogate endpoint to clinical benefit or uncertainty as to the relation of the observed clinical benefit to ultimate outcome. Post-marketing studies are usually underway at the time an applicant files the NDA. When required to be conducted, such post-marketing studies must also be adequate and well-controlled. The applicant must carry out any such post-marketing studies with due diligence. Many companies who have been granted the right to utilize an accelerated approval approach have failed to obtain approval. Moreover, negative or inconclusive results from the clinical trials we hope to conduct or adverse medical events could cause us to have to repeat or terminate the clinical trials. Accordingly, we may not be able to complete the clinical trials within an acceptable time frame, if at all, and, therefore, could not submit the NDA to the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities for marketing approval. In addition, sponsors may also apply to the FDA for Breakthrough Therapy Designation. The Breakthrough Therapy Designation is intended to expedite the development and review of a potential new drug for serious or life-threatening diseases where “preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the drug may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies on one or more clinically significant endpoints, such as substantial treatment effects observed early in clinical development.” The designation of a drug as a Breakthrough Therapy was enacted as part of the 2012 Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act. 14 Clinical testing must meet requirements for institutional review board oversight, informed consent and good clinical practices, and must be conducted pursuant to an IND, unless exempted. For purposes of NDA approval, clinical trials are typically conducted in the following sequential phases: ·Phase 1: The drug is administered to a small group of humans, either healthy volunteers or patients, to test for safety, dosage tolerance, absorption, metabolism, excretion, and clinical pharmacology. ·Phase 2: Studies are conducted on a larger number of patients to assess the efficacy of the product, to ascertain dose tolerance and the optimal dose range, and to gather additional data relating to safety and potential adverse events. ·Phase 3: Studies establish safety and efficacy in an expanded patient population. ·Phase 4: The FDA may require Phase 4 post-marketing studies to find out more about the drug’s long-term risks, benefits, and optimal use, or to test the drug in different populations. The length of time necessary to complete clinical trials varies significantly and may be difficult to predict. Clinical results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. Additional factors that can cause delay or termination of our clinical trials, or that may increase the costs of these trials, include: ·slow patient enrollment due to the nature of the clinical trial plan, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for participation in the study or other factors; ·inadequately trained or insufficient personnel at the study site to assist in overseeing and monitoring clinical trials or delays in approvals from a study site’s review board; ·longer treatment time required to demonstrate efficacy or determine the appropriate product dose; ·insufficient supply of the drug candidates; ·adverse medical events or side effects in treated patients; and ·ineffectiveness of the drug candidates. In addition, the FDA, equivalent foreign regulatory authority, or a data safety monitoring committee for a trial may place a clinical trial on hold or terminate it if it concludes that subjects are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk, or for futility. Any drug is likely to produce some toxicity or undesirable side effects in animals and in humans when administered at sufficiently high doses and/or for a sufficiently long period of time. Unacceptable toxicity or side effects may occur at any dose level at any time in the course of studies in animals designed to identify unacceptable effects of a drug candidate, known as toxicological studies, or clinical trials of drug candidates. The appearance of any unacceptable toxicity or side effect could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, limit, delay or abort the development of any of our drug candidates and could ultimately prevent approval by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities for any or all targeted indications. Sponsors of drugs may apply for an SPA from the FDA. The SPA process is a procedure by which the FDA provides official evaluation and written guidance on the design and size of proposed protocols that are intended to form the basis for a new drug application. However, final marketing approval depends on the results of efficacy, the adverse event profile and an evaluation of the benefit/risk of treatment demonstrated in the Phase 3 trial. The SPA agreement may only be changed through a written agreement between the sponsor and the FDA, or if the FDA becomes aware of a substantial scientific issue essential to product safety or efficacy. Before receiving FDA approval to market a product, we must demonstrate that the product is safe and effective for its intended use by submitting to the FDA an NDA or BLA containing the pre-clinical and clinical data that have been accumulated, together with chemistry and manufacturing and controls specifications and information, and proposed labeling, among other things. The FDA may refuse to accept an NDA/BLA for filing if certain content criteria are not met and, even after accepting an NDA/BLA, the FDA may often require additional information, including clinical data, before approval of marketing a product. 15 It is also becoming more common for the FDA to request a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, or REMS, as part of a NDA/BLA. The REMS plan contains post-market obligations of the sponsor to train prescribing physicians, monitor off-label drug use, and conduct sufficient Phase 4 follow-up studies and registries to ensure the continued safe use of the drug. As part of the approval process, the FDA must inspect and approve each manufacturing facility. Among the conditions of approval is the requirement that a manufacturer’s quality control and manufacturing procedures conform to cGMP. Manufacturers must expend significant time, money and effort to ensure continued compliance, and the FDA conducts periodic inspections to certify compliance. It may be difficult for our manufacturers or us to comply with the applicable cGMP, as interpreted by the FDA, and other FDA regulatory requirements. If we, or our contract manufacturers, fail to comply, then the FDA may not allow us to market products that have been affected by the failure. If the FDA grants approval, the approval will be limited to those disease states, conditions and patient populations for which the product is safe and effective, as demonstrated through clinical studies. Further, a product may be marketed only in those dosage forms and for those indications approved in the NDA/BLA. Certain changes to an approved NDA/BLA, including, with certain exceptions, any significant changes to labeling, require approval of a supplemental application before the drug may be marketed as changed. Any products that we manufacture or distribute pursuant to FDA approvals are subject to continuing monitoring and regulation by the FDA, including compliance with cGMP and the reporting of adverse experiences with the drugs. The nature of marketing claims that the FDA will permit us to make in the labeling and advertising of our products will generally be limited to those specified in FDA approved labeling, and the advertising of our products will be subject to comprehensive monitoring and regulation by the FDA. Drugs whose review was accelerated may carry additional restrictions on marketing activities, including the requirement that all promotional materials are pre-submitted to the FDA. Claims exceeding those contained in approved labeling will constitute a violation of the FDCA. Violations of the FDCA or regulatory requirements at any time during the product development process, approval process, or marketing and sale following approval may result in agency enforcement actions, including withdrawal of approval, recall, seizure of products, warning letters, injunctions, fines and/or civil or criminal penalties. Any agency enforcement action could have a material adverse effect on our business. Should we wish to market our products outside the U.S., we must receive marketing authorization from the appropriate foreign regulatory authorities. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, marketing authorization, pricing and reimbursement vary widely from country to country. At present, companies are typically required to apply for foreign marketing authorizations at a national level. However, within the European Union, registration procedures are available to companies wishing to market a product in more than one European Union member state. Typically, if the regulatory authority is satisfied that a company has presented adequate evidence of safety, quality and efficacy, then the regulatory authority will grant a marketing authorization. This foreign regulatory approval process, however, involves risks similar or identical to the risks associated with FDA approval discussed above, and therefore we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain the appropriate marketing authorization for any product in any particular country. Failure to comply with applicable federal, state and foreign laws and regulations would likely have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, federal, state and foreign laws and regulations regarding the manufacture and sale of new drugs are subject to future changes. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature, effect or extent of adverse governmental regulation that might arise from future legislative or administrative action, either in the U.S. or abroad. EMPLOYEES As of March 1, 2016, we had forty full and part-time employees. None of our employees are represented by a collective bargaining agreement, and we have never experienced a work stoppage. We consider our relations with our employees to be good. 16 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the following risks and uncertainties. If any of the following occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially harmed. An investment in our securities is speculative in nature, involves a high degree of risk, and should not be made by an investor who cannot bear the economic risk of its investment for an indefinite period of time and who cannot afford the loss of its entire investment. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and the other information contained elsewhere in this Annual Report before making an investment in our securities. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Because we have in-licensed our product candidates from third parties, any dispute with or non-performance by our licensors will adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize the applicable product candidates. Our product candidates have been in-licensed from third parties. Under the terms of our license agreements, the licensors generally will have the right to terminate such agreement in the event of a material breach by us. The licensors will also have the right to terminate the agreement in the event we fail to use diligent and reasonable efforts to develop and commercialize the product candidate worldwide. If there is any conflict, dispute, disagreement or issue of non-performance between us and our licensing partners regarding our rights or obligations under the license agreements, including any such conflict, dispute or disagreement arising from our failure to satisfy payment obligations under such agreement, our ability to develop and commercialize the affected product candidate and our ability to enter into collaboration or marketing agreements for the affected product candidate may be adversely affected. Any loss of our rights under these license agreements would delay or completely terminate its product development efforts for the affected product candidate. We do not have full internal development capabilities, and are thus reliant upon our partners and third parties to generate clinical, preclinical and quality data necessary to support the regulatory applications needed to conduct clinical trials and file for marketing approval. In order to submit and maintain an IND, Biologics License Application (“BLA”), or New Drug Application (“NDA”) to the FDA, it is necessary to submit all information on the clinical, non-clinical, chemistry, manufacturing, controls and quality aspects of the product candidate. We rely on our third party contractors and our licensing partners to provide a significant portion of this data. If we are unable to obtain this data, or the data is not sufficient to meet the regulatory requirements, we may experience significant delays in our development programs. Additionally, an IND must be active in each division in which we intend to conduct clinical trials. Currently we do not have an active IND for any of the IRAK4 inhibitors, nor for our anti-PD-L1 and anti-GITR antibodies. Additionally, there can be no assurance given that any of the molecules under development in our IRAK4 inhibitor program or in our anti-PD-L1 and anti-GITR antibody research program will demonstrate sufficient pharmacologic properties during pre-clinical evaluation to advance to IND enabling studies, or that such IND enabling studies, if any are conducted, will provide data sufficient to support the filing of an IND, or that such IND, if filed, would be accepted by any FDA division under which we would seek to develop any product candidate. While we maintain an active IND for TG-1101 and TGR-1202 enabling the conduct of studies in the FDA’s Division of Hematology and Oncology, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining an active IND for TG-1101 or TGR-1202 in any other division under whose supervision we may seek to develop our product candidates, or that the FDA will allow us to continue the development of our product candidates in those divisions where we maintain an active IND. We are highly dependent on the success of our product candidates and cannot give any assurance that these or any future product candidates will be successfully commercialized. We are a development-stage biopharmaceutical company, and do not currently have any commercial products that generate revenues or any other sources of revenue. We may never be able to successfully develop marketable products. Our pharmaceutical development methods are unproven and may not lead to commercially viable products for any of several reasons. If we are unable to develop, or receive regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize any of our product candidates, we will not be able to generate product revenues. Because the results of preclinical studies and early clinical trials are not necessarily predictive of future results, any product candidate we advance into clinical trials may not have favorable results in later clinical trials, if any, or receive regulatory approval. Pharmaceutical development has inherent risk. We will be required to demonstrate through adequate and well-controlled clinical trials that our product candidates are effective with a favorable benefit-risk profile for use in diverse populations for their target indications before we can seek regulatory approvals for their commercial sale. Success in early clinical trials does not mean that later clinical trials will be successful because product candidates in later-stage clinical trials may fail to demonstrate sufficient safety or efficacy despite having progressed through initial clinical testing. Companies frequently suffer significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after earlier clinical trials have shown promising results. In addition, there is typically an extremely high rate of failure of pharmaceutical candidates proceeding through clinical trials. 17 We plan on conducting additional Phase I, II and III clinical trials for TG-1101 and TGR-1202. Early clinical results seen with TG-1101 and TGR-1202 in a small number of patients may not be reproduced in expanded or larger clinical trials. Additionally, individually reported outcomes of patients treated in clinical trials may not be representative of the entire population of treated patients in such studies. If the results from expansion cohorts or later trials are different from those found in the earlier studies of TG-1101 and TGR-1202, we may need to terminate or revise our clinical development plan, which could extend the time for conducting our development program and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our IRAK4, anti-PD-L1 and anti-GITR programs are all in pre-clinical development and no assurance can be given that they will advance into clinical development. If the results from additional pre-clinical studies or early clinical trials differ from those found in earlier studies, our clinical development plans and timelines for this program could be adversely affected which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Many drugs fail in the early stages of clinical development for safety and tolerability issues, accordingly if our pre-clinical assets advance into clinical development, no assurance can be made that a safe and efficacious dose can be found. If we are unable to successfully complete our clinical trial programs, or if such clinical trials take longer to complete than we project, our ability to execute our current business strategy will be adversely affected. Whether or not and how quickly we complete clinical trials is dependent in part upon the rate at which we are able to engage clinical trial sites and, thereafter, the rate of enrollment of patients, and the rate we collect, clean, lock and analyze the clinical trial database. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the study, the existence of competitive clinical trials, and whether existing or new drugs are approved for the indication we are studying. We are aware that other companies are currently conducting or planning clinical trials that seek to enroll patients with the same diseases that we are studying. Certain clinical trials are designed to continue until a pre-determined number of events have occurred in the patients enrolled. Trials such as this are subject to delays stemming from patient withdrawal and from lower than expected event rates. They may also incur additional costs if enrollment is increased in order to achieve the desired number of events. If we experience delays in identifying and contracting with sites and/or in patient enrollment in our clinical trial programs, we may incur additional costs and delays in our development programs, and may not be able to complete our clinical trials in a cost-effective or timely manner. In addition, conducting multi-national studies adds another level of complexity and risk. We are subject to events affecting countries outside the U.S. Negative or inconclusive results from the clinical trials we conduct or unanticipated adverse medical events could cause us to have to repeat or terminate the clinical trials. In September 2014, we announced a Phase 3 clinical trial for TG-1101 in previously treated patients with high-risk CLL, and in September 2015 we announced a Phase 3 clinical trial for the combination of TG-1101 + TGR-1202 for patients with CLL, each of which are being conducted pursuant to SPAs with the FDA. Many companies which have been granted SPAs and/or the right to utilize the FDA’s Fast Track or accelerated approval process have ultimately failed to obtain final approval to market their drugs. Since we are seeking approvals under SPAs for some of our product registration strategies, based on protocol designs negotiated with the FDA, we may be subject to enhanced scrutiny. Further, any changes or amendments to a protocol that is being conducted under SPA will have to be reviewed and approved by the FDA to verify that the SPA agreement is still valid. Additionally, even if the primary endpoint in a Phase 3 clinical trial is achieved, a SPA does not guarantee approval. The FDA may raise issues of safety, study conduct, bias, deviation from the protocol, statistical power, patient completion rates, changes in scientific or medical parameters or internal inconsistencies in the data prior to making its final decision. The FDA may also seek the guidance of an outside advisory committee prior to making its final decision. Even with “fast track” or “priority review” status which we intend to seek for our product candidates, such designations do not necessarily mean a faster development process or regulatory review process or necessarily confer any advantage with respect to approval compared to conventional FDA procedures. Any product candidates we may advance into clinical development are subject to extensive regulation, which can be costly and time consuming, cause unanticipated delays or prevent the receipt of the required approvals to commercialize our product candidates. The clinical development, manufacturing, labeling, storage, record-keeping, advertising, promotion, import, export, marketing and distribution of our product candidates or any future product candidates are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA in the United States and by comparable health authorities worldwide or in foreign markets. In the United States, we are not permitted to market our product candidates until we receive approval of a BLA or NDA from the FDA. The process of obtaining BLA and NDA approval is expensive, often takes many years and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the products involved. Approval policies or regulations may change and the FDA has substantial discretion in the pharmaceutical approval process, including the ability to delay, limit or deny approval of a product candidate for many reasons. In addition, the FDA may require post-approval clinical trials or studies which also may be costly. The FDA approval for a limited indication or approval with required warning language, such as a boxed warning, could significantly impact our ability to successfully market our product candidates. Finally, the FDA may require adoption of a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) requiring prescriber training, post-market registries, or otherwise restricting the marketing and dissemination of these products. Despite the time and expense invested in clinical development of product candidates, regulatory approval is never guaranteed. Assuming successful clinical development, we intend to seek product approvals in countries outside the United States. As a result, we would be subject to regulation by the European Medicines Agency (“EMA”), as well as the other regulatory agencies in many of these countries, and other regulatory agencies around the world. 18 Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may negatively impact the regulatory process in others. As in the United States, the regulatory approval process in Europe and in other countries is a lengthy and challenging process. The FDA, and any other regulatory body around the world can delay, limit or deny approval of a product candidate for many reasons, including: ·the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may disagree with the design or implementation of our clinical trials; ·we may be unable to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities that a product candidate is safe and effective for any indication; ·the FDA may not accept clinical data from trials which are conducted by individual investigators or in countries where the standard of care is potentially different from the United States; ·the results of clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities for approval; ·we may be unable to demonstrate that a product candidate's clinical and other benefits outweigh its safety risks; ·the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may disagree with our interpretation of data from preclinical studies or clinical trials; ·the data collected from clinical trials of our product candidates may not be sufficient to support the submission of a BLA, NDA or other submission or to obtain regulatory approval in the United States or elsewhere; ·the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may fail to approve the manufacturing processes or facilities of third-party manufacturers with which we or our collaborators contract for clinical and commercial supplies; or ·the approval policies or regulations of the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may significantly change in a manner rendering our clinical data insufficient for approval. In addition, recent events raising questions about the safety of certain marketed pharmaceuticals may result in increased cautiousness by the FDA and other regulatory authorities in reviewing new pharmaceuticals based on safety, efficacy or other regulatory considerations and may result in significant delays in obtaining regulatory approvals. Regulatory approvals for our product candidates may not be obtained without lengthy delays, if at all. Any delay in obtaining, or inability to obtain, applicable regulatory approvals would prevent us from commercializing our product candidates. Any product candidate we advance into clinical trials may cause unacceptable adverse events or have other properties that may delay or prevent their regulatory approval or commercialization or limit their commercial potential. Unacceptable adverse events caused by any of our product candidates that we take into clinical trials could cause either us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay, modify or halt clinical trials and could result in the denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for any or all targeted indications. This, in turn, could prevent us from commercializing the affected product candidate and generating revenues from its sale. We have not completed testing of any of our product candidates for the treatment of the indications for which we intend to seek product approval in humans, and we currently do not know the extent that adverse events, if any, will be observed in patients who receive any of our product candidates. To date, clinical trials using TG-1101 and TGR-1202 have demonstrated a toxicity profile that was deemed acceptable by the investigators performing such studies. Such interpretation may not be shared by future investigators or by the FDA and in the case of TG-1101 and TGR-1202, even if deemed acceptable for oncology applications, it may not be acceptable for diseases outside the oncology setting, and likewise for any other product candidates we may develop. Additionally, the severity, duration and incidence of adverse events may increase in larger study populations. With respect to both TG-1101 and TGR-1202, the toxicity when manufactured under different conditions and in different formulations is not known, and it is possible that additional and/or different adverse events may appear upon the human use of those formulations and those adverse events may arise with greater frequency, intensity and duration than in the current formulation. Further, with respect to TGR-1202, although more than 80 patients have been dosed in the ongoing first-in-human dose-escalation Phase I single agent study, the full adverse effect profile of TGR-1202 is not known. It is unknown as the additional patients are exposed for longer durations to TGR-1202, whether greater frequency and/or severity of adverse events are likely to occur. Common toxicities of other drugs in the same class as TGR-1202 include high levels of liver toxicity, infections and colitis, the latter of which notably has presented with later onset, with incidence increasing with duration of exposure. To date, the incidence of these events has been limited for TGR-1202, however no assurance can be given that this safety and tolerability profile will continue to be demonstrated in the future as higher doses, longer durations of exposure, and multiple drug combinations are explored. If any of our product candidates cause unacceptable adverse events in clinical trials, we may not be able to obtain marketing approval and generate revenues from its sale, or even if approved for sale may lack differentiation from competitive products, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and operations. 19 Additionally, in combination clinical development, there is an inherent risk of drug-drug interactions between combination agents which may affect each component’s individual pharmacologic properties and the overall efficacy and safety of the combination regimen. Both TG-1101 and TGR-1202 are being evaluated in combination together, as well as with a variety of other active anti-cancer agents, which may cause unforeseen toxicity, or impact the severity, duration, and incidence of adverse events observed compared to those seen in the single agent studies of these agents. Further, with multi-drug combinations, it is often difficult to interpret or properly assign attribution of an adverse event to any one particular agent, introducing the risk that toxicity caused by a component of a combination regimen could have a material adverse impact on the development of our product candidates. There can be no assurances given that the combination regimens being studied will display tolerability or efficacy suitable to warrant further testing or produce data that is sufficient to obtain marketing approval. If any of our product candidates receives marketing approval and we, or others, later identify unacceptable adverse events caused by the product, a number of significant negative consequences could result, including: ·regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the affected product; ·regulatory authorities may require a more significant clinical benefit for approval to offset the risk; ·regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements that could diminish the usage of the product or otherwise limit the commercial success of the affected product; ·we may be required to change the way the product is administered, conduct additional clinical trials or change the labeling of the product; ·we may choose to discontinue sale of the product; ·we could be sued and held liable for harm caused to patients; ·we may not be able to enter into collaboration agreements on acceptable terms and execute on our business model; and ·our reputation may suffer. Any one or a combination of these events could prevent us from obtaining or maintaining regulatory approval and achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing the affected product, which in turn could delay or prevent us from generating any revenues from the sale of the affected product. We may experience delays in the commencement of our clinical trials or in the receipt of data from preclinical and clinical trials conducted by third parties, which could result in increased costs and delay our ability to pursue regulatory approval. Delays in the commencement of clinical trials and delays in the receipt of data from preclinical or clinical trials conducted by third parties could significantly impact our product development costs. Before we can initiate clinical trials in the United States for our product candidates, we need to submit the results of preclinical testing, usually in animals, to the FDA as part of an IND, along with other information including information about product chemistry, manufacturing and controls and its proposed clinical trial protocol for our product candidates. We plan to rely on preclinical and clinical trial data from third parties, if any, for the IND submissions for our product candidates. If receipt of that data is delayed for any reason, including reasons outside of our control, it will delay our plans for IND filings, and clinical trial plans. This, in turn, will delay our ability to make subsequent regulatory filings and ultimately, to commercialize our products if regulatory approval is obtained. If those third parties do not make this data available to us, we will likely, on our own, have to develop all the necessary preclinical and clinical data which will lead to additional delays and increase the costs of our development of our product candidates. 20 Before we can test any product candidate in human clinical trials the product candidate enters the preclinical testing stage. Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluations of product chemistry, toxicity and formulation, as well as in-vitro and animal studies to assess the potential safety and activity of the pharmaceutical product candidate. The conduct of the preclinical tests must comply with federal regulations and requirements including good laboratory practices (“GLP”). We must submit the results of the preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information, analytical data, any available clinical data or literature and a proposed clinical protocol, to the FDA as part of the IND. The IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA places the IND on a clinical hold within that 30-day time period. In such a case, we must work with the FDA to resolve any outstanding concerns before the clinical trials can begin. The FDA may also impose clinical holds on a product candidate at any time before or during clinical trials due to safety concerns or non-compliance. Accordingly, we cannot be sure that submission of an IND will result in the FDA allowing clinical trials to begin, or that, once begun, issues will not arise that suspend or terminate such clinical trial. The FDA may require that we conduct additional preclinical testing for any product candidate before it allows us to initiate the clinical testing under any IND, which may lead to additional delays and increase the costs of our preclinical development. Even assuming an active IND for a product candidate, we do not know whether our planned clinical trials for any such product candidate will begin on time, or at all. The commencement of clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays in: ·obtaining regulatory clearance to commence a clinical trial; ·identifying, recruiting and training suitable clinical investigators; ·reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations (“CROs”) and trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation, may be subject to modification from time to time and may vary significantly among different CROs and trial sites; ·obtaining sufficient quantities of a product candidate for use in clinical trials; ·obtaining institutional review board (“IRB”) or ethics committee approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; ·identifying, recruiting and enrolling patients to participate in a clinical trial; ·retaining patients who have initiated a clinical trial but may withdraw due to adverse events from the therapy, insufficient efficacy, fatigue with the clinical trial process or personal issues; and ·unexpected safety findings. Any delays in the commencement of our clinical trials will delay our ability to pursue regulatory approval for our product candidates. In addition, many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of a product candidate. Delays in the completion of clinical testing could result in increased costs and delay our ability to generate product revenues. Once a clinical trial has begun, patient recruitment and enrollment may be slower than we anticipate. Clinical trials may also be delayed as a result of ambiguous or negative interim results. Further, a clinical trial may be suspended or terminated by us, an IRB, an ethics committee or a Data Safety and Monitoring Committee overseeing the clinical trial, any of our clinical trial sites with respect to that site or the FDA or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including: ·failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or our clinical protocols; ·inspection of the clinical trial operations or clinical trial site by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold; ·unforeseen safety issues or any determination that the clinical trial presents unacceptable health risks; and ·lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial. Changes in regulatory requirements and guidance also may occur and we may need to amend clinical trial protocols to reflect these changes. Amendments may require us to resubmit our clinical trial protocols to IRBs for re-examination, which may impact the costs, timing and successful completion of a clinical trial. If we experience delays in the completion of, or if we must terminate, any clinical trial of any product candidate that we advance into clinical trials, our ability to obtain regulatory approval for that product candidate will be delayed and the commercial prospects, if any, for the product candidate may be harmed. In addition, many of these factors may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of a product candidate. Even if we ultimately commercialize any of our product candidates, other therapies for the same indications may have been introduced to the market during the period we have been delayed and such therapies may have established a competitive advantage over our product candidates. 21 We intend to rely on third parties to help conduct our planned clinical trials. If these third parties do not meet their deadlines or otherwise conduct the trials as required, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates when expected or at all. We intend to use CROs to assist in the conduct of our planned clinical trials and will rely upon medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories to conduct our trials in accordance with our clinical protocols. Our future CROs, investigators and other third parties may play a significant role in the conduct of these trials and the subsequent collection and analysis of data from the clinical trials. There is no guarantee that any CROs, investigators and other third parties will devote adequate time and resources to our clinical trials or perform as contractually required. If any third parties upon whom we rely for administration and conduct of our clinical trials fail to meet expected deadlines, fail to adhere to its clinical protocols or otherwise perform in a substandard manner, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated, and we may not be able to commercialize our product candidates. If any of our clinical trial sites terminate for any reason, we may experience the loss of follow-up information on patients enrolled in our ongoing clinical trials unless we are able to transfer the care of those patients to another qualified clinical trial site. In addition, principal investigators for our clinical trials may serve as scientific advisors or consultants to us from time to time and receive cash or equity compensation in connection with such services. If these relationships and any related compensation result in perceived or actual conflicts of interest, the integrity of the data generated at the applicable clinical trial site may be jeopardized. As all of our product candidates are still under development, manufacturing and process improvements implemented in the production of those product candidates may affect their ultimate activity or function. Our product candidates are in the initial stages of development and are currently manufactured in small batches for use in pre-clinical and clinical studies. Process improvements implemented to date have changed, and process improvements in the future may change, the activity profile of the product candidates, which may affect the safety and efficacy of the products. No assurance can be given that the material manufactured from any of the optimized processes will perform comparably to the product candidates as manufactured to date and used in currently available pre-clinical data and or in early clinical trials reported in this or any previous filing. Additionally, future clinical trial results will be subject to the same level of uncertainty if, following such trials, additional process improvements are made. In addition, we are currently in the process of engaging a secondary manufacturer for TG-1101 to meet our current clinical and future commercial needs and anticipate engaging additional manufacturing sources for TGR-1202 to meet expanded clinical trial and commercial needs. No assurance can be given that the secondary manufacturing will be successful or that material manufactured by the secondary manufacturer will perform comparably to TG-1101 or TGR-1202 as manufactured to date and used in currently available pre-clinical data and or in early clinical trials reported in this or any previous filing. If the secondary manufacturer is not successful in replicating the product or experiences delays, or if regulatory authorities impose unforeseen requirements with respect to product comparability from multiple manufacturing sources, we may experience delays in clinical development. If we fail to adequately understand and comply with the local laws and customs as we expand into new international markets, these operations may incur losses or otherwise adversely affect our business and results of operations. We expect to operate a portion of our business in certain countries through subsidiaries or through supply and marketing arrangements. In those countries, where we have limited experience in operating subsidiaries and in reviewing equity investees, we will be subject to additional risks related to complying with a wide variety of national and local laws, including restrictions on the import and export of certain intermediates, drugs, technologies and multiple and possibly overlapping tax structures. In addition, we may face competition in certain countries from companies that may have more experience with operations in such countries or with international operations generally. We may also face difficulties integrating new facilities in different countries into our existing operations, as well as integrating employees hired in different countries into our existing corporate culture. If we do not effectively manage our operations in these subsidiaries and review equity investees effectively, or if we fail to manage our alliances, we may lose money in these countries and it may adversely affect our business and results of our operations. If our competitors develop treatments for the target indications for which any of our product candidates may be approved, and they are approved more quickly, marketed more effectively or demonstrated to be more effective than our product candidates, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated. We operate in a highly competitive segment of the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical market. We face competition from numerous sources, including commercial pharmaceutical and biotechnology enterprises, academic institutions, government agencies, and private and public research institutions. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, product development, manufacturing and marketing resources. Large pharmaceutical companies have extensive experience in clinical testing and obtaining regulatory approval for drugs. Additionally, many universities and private and public research institutes are active in cancer research, some in direct competition with us. We may also compete with these organizations to recruit scientists and clinical development personnel. Smaller or early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. 22 The cancer indications for which we are developing our products have a number of established therapies with which we will compete. Most major pharmaceutical companies and many biotechnology companies are aggressively pursuing new cancer development programs for the treatment of NHL, CLL, and other B-cell proliferative malignancies, including both therapies with traditional, as well as novel, mechanisms of action. If approved, we expect TG-1101 to compete directly with Roche Group’s Rituxan® (rituximab) and Gazyva® (obinutuzumab or GA-101), and Genmab and GlaxoSmithKline’s Arzerra® (ofatumumab) among others, each of which is currently approved for the treatment of various diseases including NHL and CLL. In addition, a number of pharmaceutical companies are developing antibodies targeting CD20, CD19, and other B-cell associated targets, chimeric antigen receptor T-cell (CAR-T) immunotherapy, and other B-cell ablative therapy which, if approved, would potentially compete with TG-1101. New developments, including the development of other pharmaceutical technologies and methods of treating disease, occur in the pharmaceutical and life sciences industries at a rapid pace. With respect to TGR-1202, there are several PI3K delta targeted compounds both approved, such as Gilead’s Zydelig™ (idelalisib), and in development, including, but not limited to, Infinity Pharmaceuticals’ duvelisib (IPI-145) which if approved we would expect to compete directly with TGR-1202. In addition, there are numerous other novel therapies targeting similar pathways to TGR-1202 both approved and in development, which could also compete with TGR-1202 in similar indications, such as the BTK inhibitor, ibrutinib (FDA approved for MCL, CLL, and WM and marketed by AbbVie and Janssen), the BTK inhibitor ACP-196 (under development by AstraZeneca), or the BCL-2 inhibitor ABT-199 (under clinical development by AbbVie and Roche). These developments may render our product candidates obsolete or noncompetitive. Compared to us, many of our potential competitors have substantially greater: ·research and development resources, including personnel and technology; ·regulatory experience; ·pharmaceutical development, clinical trial and pharmaceutical commercialization experience; ·experience and expertise in exploitation of intellectual property rights; and ·capital resources. As a result of these factors, our competitors may obtain regulatory approval of their products more rapidly than us or may obtain patent protection or other intellectual property rights that limit our ability to develop or commercialize our product candidates. Our competitors may also develop products for the treatment of lymphoma or CLL that are more effective, better tolerated, more useful and less costly than ours and may also be more successful in manufacturing and marketing their products. Our competitors may succeed in obtaining approvals from the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities for their product candidates sooner than we do for our products. We will also face competition from these third parties in recruiting and retaining qualified personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and enrolling patients for clinical trials and in identifying and in-licensing new product candidates. We rely completely on third parties to manufacture our preclinical and clinical pharmaceutical supplies and we intend to rely on third parties to produce commercial supplies of any approved product candidate, and our commercialization of any of our product candidates could be stopped, delayed or made less profitable if those third parties fail to obtain approval of the FDA, fail to provide us with sufficient quantities of pharmaceutical product or fail to do so at acceptable quality levels or prices. The facilities used by our contract manufacturers to manufacture our product candidates must be approved by the FDA pursuant to inspections that will be conducted only after we submit a BLA or NDA to the FDA, if at all. We do not control the manufacturing process of our product candidates and are completely dependent on our contract manufacturing partners for compliance with the FDA’s requirements for manufacture of finished pharmaceutical products (good manufacturing practices, GMP). If our contract manufacturers cannot successfully manufacture material that conforms to our target product specifications, patent specifications, and/or the FDA’s strict regulatory requirements of safety, purity and potency, we will not be able to secure and/or maintain FDA approval for our product candidates. In addition, we have no control over the ability of our contract manufacturers to maintain adequate quality control, quality assurance and qualified personnel. If our contract manufacturers cannot meet FDA standards, we may need to find alternative manufacturing facilities, which would significantly impact our ability to develop, obtain regulatory approval for or market our product candidates. No assurance can be given that a long-term, scalable manufacturer can be identified or that they can make clinical and commercial supplies of our product candidates that meets the product specifications of previously manufactured batches, or is of a sufficient quality, or at an appropriate scale and cost to make it commercially feasible. If they are unable to do so, it could have a material adverse impact on our business. 23 In addition, we do not have the capability to package finished products for distribution to hospitals and other customers. Prior to commercial launch, we intend to enter into agreements with one or more alternate fill/finish pharmaceutical product suppliers so that we can ensure proper supply chain management once we are authorized to make commercial sales of our product candidates. If we receive marketing approval from the FDA, we intend to sell pharmaceutical product finished and packaged by such suppliers. We have not entered into long-term agreements with our current contract manufacturers or with any fill/finish suppliers, and though we intend to do so prior to commercial launch of our product candidates in order to ensure that we maintain adequate supplies of finished product, we may be unable to enter into such an agreement or do so on commercially reasonable terms, which could have a material adverse impact upon our business. In most cases, our manufacturing partners are single source suppliers. It is expected that our manufacturing partners will be sole source suppliers from single site locations for the foreseeable future. Given this, any disruption of supply from these partners could have a material, long-term impact on our ability to supply products for clinical trials or commercial sale. If our suppliers do not deliver sufficient quantities of our product candidates on a timely basis, or at all, and in accordance with applicable specifications, there could be a significant interruption of our supply, which would adversely affect clinical development and commercialization of our products. In addition, if our current or future supply of any or our product candidates should fail to meet specifications during its stability program there could be a significant interruption of our supply of drug, which would adversely affect the clinical development and commercialization of the product. We currently have no marketing and sales organization and no experience in marketing pharmaceutical products. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or fail to enter into agreements with third parties to market and sell any products we may develop, we may not be able to effectively market and sell our products and generate product revenue. We do not currently have the infrastructure for the sales, marketing and distribution of our biotechnology products, and we must build this infrastructure or make arrangements with third parties to perform these functions in order to commercialize our products. We plan to either develop internally or enter into collaborations or other commercial arrangements to develop further, promote and sell all or a portion of our product candidates. The establishment and development of a sales force, either by us or jointly with a development partner, or the establishment of a contract sales force to market any products we may develop will be expensive and time-consuming and could delay any product launch, and we cannot be certain that we or our development partners would be able to successfully develop this capability. If we or our development partners are unable to establish sales and marketing capability or any other non-technical capabilities necessary to commercialize any products we may develop, we will need to contract with third parties to market and sell such products. We currently possess limited resources and may not be successful in establishing our own internal sales force or in establishing arrangements with third parties on acceptable terms, if at all. If any product candidate that we successfully develop does not achieve broad market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors, and the medical community, the revenues that we generate from its sales will be limited. Even if our product candidates receive regulatory approval, they may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors, and the medical community. Coverage and reimbursement of our product candidates by third-party payors, including government payors, generally is also necessary for commercial success. The degree of market acceptance of any of our approved products will depend on a number of factors, including: ·the efficacy and safety as demonstrated in clinical trials; ·the clinical indications for which the product is approved; ·acceptance by physicians, major operators of cancer clinics and patients of the product as a safe and effective treatment; ·the potential and perceived advantages of product candidates over alternative treatments; ·the safety of product candidates seen in a broader patient group, including its use outside the approved indications; ·the cost of treatment in relation to alternative treatments; ·the availability of adequate reimbursement and pricing by third parties and government authorities; 24 ·relative convenience and ease of administration; ·the prevalence and severity of adverse events; and ·the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts. If any product candidate is approved but does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, hospitals, healthcare payors and patients, we may not generate sufficient revenue from these products and we may not become or remain profitable. If product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our product candidates. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the testing of our product candidates in human clinical trials, and will face an even greater risk if we sell our product candidates commercially. Although we are not aware of any historical or anticipated product liability claims against us, if we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to cease clinical trials of our drug candidates or limit commercialization of any approved products. An individual may bring a liability claim against us if one of our product candidates causes, or merely appears to have caused, an injury. If we cannot successfully defend our self against product liability claims, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: ·decreased demand for our product candidates; ·impairment to our business reputation; ·withdrawal of clinical trial participants; ·costs of related litigation; ·distraction of management’s attention from our primary business; ·substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; ·the inability to commercialize our product candidates; and ·loss of revenues. We believe that we have obtained sufficient product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if marketing approval is obtained for any of our product candidates. However, we may be unable to obtain this product liability insurance on commercially reasonable terms and with insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise. On occasion, large judgments have been awarded in class action or individual lawsuits relating to marketed pharmaceuticals. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could cause our stock price to decline and, if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could decrease our cash and adversely affect our business. Reimbursement may be limited or unavailable in certain market segments for our product candidates, which could make it difficult for us to sell our products profitably. We intend to seek approval to market our future products in both the United States and in countries and territories outside the United States. If we obtain approval in one or more foreign countries, we will be subject to rules and regulations in those countries relating to our product. In some foreign countries, particularly in the European Union, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals and biologics is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval for a product candidate. In addition, market acceptance and sales of our product candidates will depend significantly on the availability of adequate coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors for any of our product candidates and may be affected by existing and future healthcare reform measures. Government authorities and third-party payors, such as private health insurers and health maintenance organizations, decide which pharmaceuticals they will pay for and establish reimbursement levels. Reimbursement by a third-party payor may depend upon a number of factors, including the third-party payor’s determination that use of a product is: ·a covered benefit under its health plan; ·safe, effective and medically necessary; ·appropriate for the specific patient; ·cost-effective; and ·neither experimental nor investigational. 25 Obtaining coverage and reimbursement approval for a product from a government or other third-party payor is a time consuming and costly process that could require that we provide supporting scientific, clinical and cost-effectiveness data for the use of our products to the payor. We may not be able to provide data sufficient to gain acceptance with respect to coverage and reimbursement. If reimbursement of our future products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, we may be unable to achieve or sustain profitability. Additionally, while we may seek approval of our products in combination with each other, there can be no guarantee that we will obtain coverage and reimbursement for any of our products together, or that such reimbursement will incentivize the use of our products in combination with each other as opposed to in combination with other agents which may be priced more favorably to the medical community. In both the United States and certain foreign countries, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes to the healthcare system that could impact our ability to sell our products profitably. In particular, the Medicare Modernization Act of 2003 revised the payment methodology for many products reimbursed by Medicare, resulting in lower rates of reimbursement for many types of drugs, and added a prescription drug benefit to the Medicare program that involves commercial plans negotiating drug prices for their members. Since 2003, there have been a number of other legislative and regulatory changes to the coverage and reimbursement landscape for pharmaceuticals. Most recently, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, collectively, the “Affordable Care Act,” was enacted. The Affordable Care Act contains a number of provisions, including those governing enrollment in federal healthcare programs, the increased use of comparative effectiveness research on healthcare products, reimbursement and fraud and abuse changes, and a new regulatory pathway for the approval of biosimilar biological products, all of which will impact existing government healthcare programs and will result in the development of new programs. An expansion in the government’s role in the U.S. healthcare industry may further lower rates of reimbursement for pharmaceutical and biotechnology products. There have been, and likely will continue to be, legislative and regulatory proposals at the federal and state levels directed at broadening the availability of healthcare and containing or lowering the cost of healthcare products and services. We cannot predict the initiatives that may be adopted in the future. The continuing efforts of the government, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of healthcare services to contain or reduce costs of healthcare may adversely affect: ·the demand for any products for which we may obtain regulatory approval; ·our ability to set a price that we believe is fair for our products; ·our ability to generate revenues and achieve or maintain profitability; ·the level of taxes that we are required to pay; and ·the availability of capital. In addition, governments may impose price controls, which may adversely affect our future profitability. We will need to increase the size of our organization and the scope of our outside vendor relationships, and we may experience difficulties in managing this growth. As of March 1, 2016, we had forty full and part time employees. Over time, we will need to expand our managerial, operational, financial and other resources in order to manage and fund our operations and clinical trials, continue research and development activities, and commercialize our product candidates. Our management and scientific personnel, systems and facilities currently in place may not be adequate to support our future growth. Our need to effectively manage our operations, growth, and various projects requires that we: ·manage our clinical trials effectively; ·manage our internal development efforts effectively while carrying out our contractual obligations to licensors, contractors and other third parties; ·continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and reporting systems and procedures; and ·attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees. We may utilize the services of outside vendors or consultants to perform tasks including clinical trial management, statistics and analysis, regulatory affairs, formulation development, chemistry, manufacturing, controls, and other pharmaceutical development functions. Our growth strategy may also entail expanding our group of contractors or consultants to implement these tasks going forward. Because we rely on a substantial number of consultants, effectively outsourcing many key functions of our business, we will need to be able to effectively manage these consultants to ensure that they successfully carry out their contractual obligations and meet expected deadlines. However, if we are unable to effectively manage our outsourced activities or if the quality or accuracy of the services provided by consultants is compromised for any reason, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates or otherwise advance its business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our existing consultants or find other competent outside contractors and consultants on economically reasonable terms, or at all. If we are not able to effectively expand our organization by hiring new employees and expanding our groups of consultants and contractors, we may be unable to successfully implement the tasks necessary to further develop and commercialize our product candidates and, accordingly, may not achieve our research, development and commercialization goals. 26 If we fail to attract and keep key management and clinical development personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop or commercialize our product candidates. We will need to expand and effectively manage our managerial, operational, financial and other resources in order to successfully pursue our clinical development and commercialization efforts for our product candidates and future product candidates. We are highly dependent on the development, regulatory, commercial and financial expertise of the members of our senior management. The loss of the services of any of our senior management could delay or prevent the further development and potential commercialization of our product candidates and, if we are not successful in finding suitable replacements, could harm our business. We do not maintain “key man” insurance policies on the lives of these individuals. We will need to hire additional personnel as we continue to expand our manufacturing, research and development activities. Our success depends on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management and scientific personnel and we may not be able to do so in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and other businesses. Our industry has experienced a high rate of turnover of management personnel in recent years. If we are not able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will impede significantly the achievement of our development objectives, our ability to raise additional capital, and our ability to implement our business strategy. If we fail to comply with healthcare regulations, we could face substantial penalties and our business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition to FDA restrictions on the marketing of pharmaceutical and biotechnology products, several other types of state and federal laws have been applied to restrict certain marketing practices in the pharmaceutical and medical device industries in recent years, as well as consulting or other service agreements with physicians or other potential referral sources. These laws include anti-kickback statutes and false claims statutes that prohibit, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce, or, in return for, purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any healthcare item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other federally-financed healthcare programs, and knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and any practices we adopt may not, in all cases, meet all of the criteria for safe harbor protection from anti-kickback liability. Sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer’s products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines and imprisonment. Any challenge to its business practices under these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We use biological and hazardous materials, and any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be time consuming or costly. We use hazardous materials, including chemicals and biological agents and compounds, which could be dangerous to human health and safety or the environment. Our operations also produce hazardous waste products. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, generation, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and wastes. Compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental laws and regulations may impair our pharmaceutical development efforts. In addition, we cannot entirely eliminate the risk of accidental injury or contamination from these materials or wastes. If one of our employees was accidentally injured from the use, storage, handling or disposal of these materials or wastes, the medical costs related to his or her treatment would be covered by our workers’ compensation insurance policy. However, we do not carry specific biological or hazardous waste insurance coverage and our property and casualty and general liability insurance policies specifically exclude coverage for damages and fines arising from biological or hazardous waste exposure or contamination. Accordingly, in the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines in an amount exceeding our resources, and our clinical trials or regulatory approvals could be suspended, or operations otherwise affected. 27 All product candidate development timelines and projections in this report are based on the assumption of further financing. The timelines and projections in this report are predicated upon the assumption that we will raise additional financing in the future to continue the development of our product candidates. In the event we do not successfully raise subsequent financing, our product development activities will necessarily be curtailed commensurate with the magnitude of the shortfall. If our product development activities are slowed or stopped, we would be unable to meet the timelines and projections outlined in this filing. Failure to progress our product candidates as anticipated will have a negative effect on our business, future prospects, and ability to obtain further financing on acceptable terms (if at all), and the value of the enterprise. Risks Relating to Acquisitions Acquisitions, investments and strategic alliances that we may make in the future may use significant resources, result in disruptions to our business or distractions of our management, may not proceed as planned, and could expose us to unforeseen liabilities. We may seek to expand our business through the acquisition of, investments in and strategic alliances with companies, technologies, products, and services. Acquisitions, investments and strategic alliances involve a number of special problems and risks, including, but not limited to: ·difficulty integrating acquired technologies, products, services, operations and personnel with the existing businesses; ·diversion of management’s attention in connection with both negotiating the acquisitions and integrating the businesses; ·strain on managerial and operational resources as management tries to oversee larger operations; ·difficulty implementing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting at businesses that we acquire, particularly if they are not located near our existing operations; ·exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies; ·potential costly and time-consuming litigation, including stockholder lawsuits; ·potential issuance of securities to equity holders of the company being acquired with rights that are superior to the rights of holders of our common stock or which may have a dilutive effect on our stockholders; ·risk of loss of invested capital; ·the need to incur additional debt or use cash; and ·the requirement to record potentially significant additional future operating costs for the amortization of intangible assets. As a result of these or other problems and risks, businesses we acquire may not produce the revenues, earnings, or business synergies that we anticipated, and acquired products, services, or technologies might not perform as we expected. As a result, we may incur higher costs and realize lower revenues than we had anticipated. We may not be able to successfully address these problems and we cannot assure you that the acquisitions will be successfully identified and completed or that, if acquisitions are completed, the acquired businesses, products, services, or technologies will generate sufficient revenue to offset the associated costs or other negative effects on our business. Any of these risks can be greater if an acquisition is large relative to our size. Failure to effectively manage our growth through acquisitions could adversely affect our growth prospects, business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Risks Relating to Our Intellectual Property Our success depends upon our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technologies, and the intellectual property protection for our product candidates depends significantly on third parties. Our commercial success depends on obtaining and maintaining patent protection and trade secret protection for our product candidates and their formulations and uses, as well as successfully defending these patents against third-party challenges. If any of our licensors or partners fails to appropriately prosecute and maintain patent protection for these product candidates, our ability to develop and commercialize these product candidates may be adversely affected and we may not be able to prevent competitors from making, using and selling competing products. This failure to properly protect the intellectual property rights relating to these product candidates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 28 Currently, the composition of matter patent and several method of use patents for TG-1101 and TGR-1202 in various indications and settings have been applied for but have not yet been issued, or have been issued in certain territories but not under all jurisdictions in which such applications have been filed. While composition of matter patents have been granted in the US for TG-1101 and TGR-1202, no patents to date have been issued for our IRAK4 inhibitor and anti-PD-L1 and anti-GITR programs. There can be no guarantee that any of these patents for which an application has already been filed, nor any patents filed in the future for our product candidates will be granted in any or all jurisdictions in which there were filed, or that all claims initially included in such patent applications will be allowed in the final patent that is issued. The patent application process is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, and there can be no assurance that we or our partners will be successful in protecting our product candidates by obtaining and defending patents. These risks and uncertainties include the following: ·the patent applications that we or our partners file may not result in any patents being issued; ·patents that may be issued or in-licensed may be challenged, invalidated, modified, revoked or circumvented, or otherwise may not provide any competitive advantage; ·as of March 16, 2013, the U.S. converted from a “first to invent” to a “first to file” system. If we do not win the filing race, we will not be entitled to inventive priority; ·our competitors, many of which have substantially greater resources than we do, and many of which have made significant investments in competing technologies, may seek, or may already have obtained, patents that will limit, interfere with, or eliminate its ability to make, use, and sell our potential products either in the United States or in international markets; ·there may be significant pressure on the U.S. government and other international governmental bodies to limit the scope of patent protection both inside and outside the United States for disease treatments that prove successful as a matter of public policy regarding worldwide health concerns; and ·countries other than the United States may have less restrictive patent laws than those upheld by United States courts, allowing foreign competitors the ability to exploit these laws to create, develop, and market competing products. If patents are not issued that protect our product candidates, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition to patents, we and our partners also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how. Although we have taken steps to protect our trade secrets and unpatented know-how, including entering into confidentiality agreements with third parties, and confidential information and inventions agreements with employees, consultants and advisors, third parties may still obtain this information or we may be unable to protect its rights. If any of these events occurs, or we otherwise lose protection for our trade secrets or proprietary know-how, the value of this information may be greatly reduced. Patent protection and other intellectual property protection are crucial to the success of our business and prospects, and there is a substantial risk that such protections will prove inadequate. If we or our partners are sued for infringing intellectual property rights of third parties, it will be costly and time consuming, and an unfavorable outcome in that litigation would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our commercial success also depends upon our ability and the ability of any of our future collaborators to develop, manufacture, market and sell our product candidates without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Numerous United States and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the fields in which we are developing products, some of which may be directed at claims that overlap with the subject matter of our intellectual property. For example, Roche has the Cabilly patents in the U.S. that block the commercialization of antibody products derived from a single cell line, like TG-1101. Also, Roche, Biogen Idec, and Genentech hold patents for the use of anti-CD20 antibodies utilized in the treatment of CLL in the U.S. While these patents have been challenged, to the best of our knowledge, those matters were settled in a way that permitted additional anti-CD20 antibodies to be marketed for CLL. If those patents are still enforced at the time we are intending to launch TG-1101, then we will need to either prevail in a litigation to challenge those patents or negotiate a settlement agreement with the patent holders. If we are unable to do so we may be forced to delay the launch of TG-1101 or launch at the risk of litigation for patent infringement, which may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 29 In addition, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that our product candidates or proprietary technologies may infringe. Similarly, there may be issued patents relevant to our product candidates of which we are not aware. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries generally. If a third party claims that we or any collaborators of ours infringe their intellectual property rights, we may have to: ·obtain licenses, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; ·abandon an infringing product candidate or redesign its products or processes to avoid infringement; ·pay substantial damages, including treble damages and attorneys’ fees, which we may have to pay if a court decides that the product or proprietary technology at issue infringes on or violates the third party’s rights; ·pay substantial royalties, fees and/or grant cross licenses to our technology; and/or ·defend litigation or administrative proceedings which may be costly whether we win or lose, and which could result in a substantial diversion of our financial and management resources. No assurance can be given that patents issued to third parties do not exist, have not been filed, or could not be filed or issued, which contain claims covering its products, technology or methods that may encompass all or a portion of our products and methods. Given the number of patents issued and patent applications filed in our technical areas or fields, we believe there is a risk that third parties may allege they have patent rights encompassing our products or methods. Other product candidates that we may in-license or acquire could be subject to similar risks and uncertainties. We may be involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents or the patents of our licensors, which could be expensive, time consuming and unsuccessful. Competitors may infringe our patents or the patents of our licensors. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, we may be required to file infringement claims, which typically are very expensive, time-consuming and disruptive of day-to-day business operations. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours or our licensors is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover the technology in question. An adverse result in any litigation or defense proceedings could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated, held unenforceable, or interpreted narrowly. The adverse result could also put related patent applications at risk of not issuing. Interference proceedings provoked by third parties or brought by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (“PTO”) may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our patents or patent applications or those of our collaborators or licensors. An unfavorable outcome could require us to cease using the related technology or to attempt to license rights to it from the prevailing party. Our business could be harmed if the prevailing party does not offer us a license on commercially reasonable terms. Litigation or interference proceedings may fail and, even if successful, may result in substantial costs and distract our management and other employees. We may not be able to prevent, alone or with our licensors, misappropriation of our trade secrets or confidential information, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect those rights as fully as in the United States. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our common stock. We may be subject to claims that our consultants or independent contractors have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their other clients or former employers to it. As is common in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry, we engage the services of consultants to assist us in the development of our product candidates. Many of these consultants were previously employed at, may have previously been, or are currently providing consulting services to, other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these consultants or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers or their former or current customers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management and day-to-day business operations. 30 Risks Relating to Our Finances and Capital Requirements We will need to raise additional capital to continue to operate our business. As of December 31, 2015, we had net cash, cash equivalents, investment securities and interest receivable of approximately $102.4 million. We believe that our cash and cash equivalents and investments will sustain our operations for more than 24 months from December 31, 2015. As a result, we will need additional capital to continue our operations beyond that time. Required additional sources of financing to continue our operations in the future might not be available on favorable terms, if at all. If we do not succeed in raising additional funds on acceptable terms, we might be unable to complete planned preclinical and clinical trials or obtain approval of any of our product candidates from the FDA or any foreign regulatory authorities. In addition, we could be forced to discontinue product development, reduce or forego sales and marketing efforts and forego attractive business opportunities. Any additional sources of financing will likely involve the issuance of our equity securities, which would have a dilutive effect to stockholders. Currently, none of our product candidates have been approved by the FDA or any foreign regulatory authority for sale. Therefore, for the foreseeable future, we will have to fund all of our operations and capital expenditures from cash on hand and amounts raised in future offerings or financings. We have a history of operating losses, expect to continue to incur losses, and are unable to predict the extent of future losses or when we will become profitable, if ever. We have not yet applied for or demonstrated an ability to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize a product candidate. Our short operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our business prospects and consequently, any predictions about our future performance may not be as accurate as they could be if we had a history of successfully developing and commercializing pharmaceutical or biotechnology products. Our prospects must be considered in light of the uncertainties, risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in the early stages of operations and the competitive environment in which we operate. We have never been profitable and, as of December 31, 2015, we had an accumulated deficit of $158.1 million. We have generated operating losses in all periods since we were incorporated. We expect to make substantial expenditures resulting in increased operating costs in the future and our accumulated deficit will increase significantly as we expand development and clinical trial efforts for our product candidates. Our losses have had, and are expected to continue to have, an adverse impact on our working capital, total assets and stockholders’ equity. Because of the risks and uncertainties associated with product development, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if ever. Even if we achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on an ongoing basis. We have not generated any revenue from our product candidates and may never become profitable. Our ability to become profitable depends upon our ability to generate significant continuing revenues. To obtain significant continuing revenues, we must succeed, either alone or with others, in developing, obtaining regulatory approval for and manufacturing and marketing our product candidates (or utilize early access programs to generate such revenue). To date, our product candidates have not generated any revenues, and we do not know when, or if, we will generate any revenue. Our ability to generate revenue depends on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: ·successful completion of preclinical studies of our product candidates; ·successful commencement and completion of clinical trials of our product candidates and any future product candidates we advance into clinical trials; ·achievement of regulatory approval for our product candidates and any future product candidates we advance into clinical trials (unless we successfully utilize early access programs which allow for revenue generation prior to approval); ·manufacturing commercial quantities of our products at acceptable cost levels if regulatory approvals are obtained; ·successful sales, distribution and marketing of our future products, if any; and ·our entry into collaborative arrangements or co-promotion agreements to market and sell our products. If we are unable to generate significant continuing revenues, we will not become profitable and we may be unable to continue our operations without continued funding. 31 We will need substantial additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our development programs or commercialization efforts. We expect to spend substantial amounts on development, including significant amounts on conducting clinical trials for our product candidates, manufacturing clinical supplies and expanding our pharmaceutical development programs. We expect that our monthly cash used by operations will continue to increase for the next several years. We anticipate that we will continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future. We will require substantial additional funds to support our continued research and development activities, as well as the anticipated costs of preclinical studies and clinical trials, regulatory approvals, and eventual commercialization. We anticipate that we will incur operating losses for the foreseeable future. We have based these estimates, however, on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and we could expend our available financial resources much faster than we currently expect. Further, we will need to raise additional capital to fund our operations and continue to conduct clinical trials to support potential regulatory approval of marketing applications. Future capital requirements will also depend on the extent to which we acquire or in-license additional product candidates. We currently have no commitments or agreements relating to any of these types of transactions. The amount and timing of our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to, the following: ·the progress of our clinical trials, including expenses to support the trials and milestone payments that may become payable under our license agreements; ·the costs and timing of regulatory approvals; ·the costs and timing of clinical and commercial manufacturing supply arrangements for each product candidate; ·the costs of establishing sales or distribution capabilities; ·the success of the commercialization of our products; ·our ability to establish and maintain strategic collaborations, including licensing and other arrangements; ·the costs involved in enforcing or defending patent claims or other intellectual property rights; and ·the extent to which we in-license or invest in other indications or product candidates. Until we can generate a sufficient amount of product revenue and achieve profitability, we expect to finance future cash needs through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements, as well as through interest income earned on cash balances. If we were to be unable to raise additional capital, we would have to significantly delay, scale back or discontinue one or more of our pharmaceutical development programs. We also may be required to relinquish, license or otherwise dispose of rights to product candidates or products that it would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize itself on terms that are less favorable than might otherwise be available. Raising additional funds by issuing securities or through licensing or lending arrangements may cause dilution to our existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish proprietary rights. We may raise additional funds through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or licensing arrangements. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, the share ownership of existing stockholders will be diluted. Any future debt financing we enter into may involve covenants that restrict our operations, including limitations on our ability to incur liens or additional debt, pay dividends, redeem our stock, make certain investments and engage in certain merger, consolidation or asset sale transactions, among other restrictions. In addition, if we raise additional funds through licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish potentially valuable rights to our product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If adequate funds are not available, our ability to achieve profitability or to respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited and we may be required to delay, significantly curtail or eliminate the development of one or more of our product candidates. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We are controlled by current officers, directors and principal stockholders. Our directors, executive officers, their affiliates, and our principal stockholders beneficially own approximately 55% percent of our outstanding voting stock, including shares underlying outstanding options and warrants. Our directors, officers and principal stockholders, taken as a whole, have the ability to exert substantial influence over the election of our Board of Directors and the outcome of issues submitted to our stockholders. 32 Our stock price is, and we expect it to remain, volatile, which could limit investors’ ability to sell stock at a profit. The trading price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: ·publicity regarding actual or potential clinical results relating to products under development by our competitors or us; ·delay or failure in initiating, completing or analyzing nonclinical or clinical trials or the unsatisfactory design or results of these trials; ·achievement or rejection of regulatory approvals by our competitors or us; ·announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by our competitors or us; ·developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents; ·developments concerning our collaborations; ·regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; ·economic or other crises and other external factors; ·period-to-period fluctuations in our revenues and other results of operations; ·changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; and ·sales of our common stock. We will not be able to control many of these factors, and we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our financial results will not necessarily be indicative of our future performance. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for biotechnology companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that may have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. We have not paid dividends in the past and do not expect to pay dividends in the future, and any return on investment may be limited to the value of your stock. We have never paid dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying any dividends for the foreseeable future. You should not rely on an investment in our stock if you require dividend income. Further, you will only realize income on an investment in our stock in the event you sell or otherwise dispose of your shares at a price higher than the price you paid for your shares. Such a gain would result only from an increase in the market price of our common stock, which is uncertain and unpredictable. Certain anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could make a third-party acquisition of us difficult. This could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, or control us. These factors could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation allows us to issue preferred stock without the approval of our stockholders. The issuance of preferred stock could decrease the amount of earnings and assets available for distribution to the holders of our common stock or could adversely affect the rights and powers, including voting rights, of such holders. In certain circumstances, such issuance could have the effect of decreasing the market price of our common stock. Our restated bylaws eliminate the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders, which could make it more difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions. Any of these provisions could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. On July 18, 2014, the Board of Directors declared a distribution of one right for each outstanding share of common stock. The rights may have certain anti-takeover effects. The rights will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by the Board of Directors unless the offer is conditioned on a substantial number of rights being acquired. However, the rights should not interfere with any merger, statutory share exchange or other business combination approved by the Board of Directors since the rights may be terminated by us upon resolution of the Board of Directors. Thus, the rights are intended to encourage persons who may seek to acquire control of the Company to initiate such an acquisition through negotiations with the Board of Directors. However, the effect of the rights may be to discourage a third party from making a partial tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain a substantial equity position in the equity securities of, or seeking to obtain control of, the Company. To the extent any potential acquirers are deterred by the rights, the rights may have the effect of preserving incumbent management in office. 33 