ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows are subject to many risks, including, but not limited to, those set forth below: Emeritus has incurred losses since it began doing business, except for 2005, and may continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. Emeritus was organized and began operations in July 1993 and has operated at a loss since it began doing business, except for 2005. For December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, we recorded losses of $84.8 million, $71.9 million, and $57.0 million, respectively. We believe that the historically aggressive growth of our Consolidated Portfolio through acquisitions and developments and related financing activities, as well as our inability (along with most of the assisted living industry) to significantly increase occupancy and rates at our communities, were among the causes of these losses. To date, at many of our communities, we have generally been able to stabilize occupancy and rate structures to levels that have resulted in positive cash flows from operating 13 Table of Contents activities but not overall Company earnings. Our ongoing results of operations may not become profitable in line with our current expectations or may not become profitable at all. If the Company cannot generate sufficient cash flows to cover required interest, principal, and lease payments, it risks defaults on its debt agreements and leases. As of December 31, 2012, we had total debt, including interest, of $2.1 billion, with minimum annual payments of $148.1 million due in 2013, and have both long-term operating and capital lease and financing obligations requiring minimum annual payments of an additional $299.9 million in 2013. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows to make such payments as required and we are unable to renegotiate payments or obtain additional equity or debt financing, a lender could foreclose on the communities secured by the respective indebtedness or, in the case of a lease, could terminate our lease, resulting in loss of income and asset value. In some cases, our indebtedness is secured by a particular community and a pledge of our interests in a subsidiary entity that owns that community. In the event of a default, a lender could avoid judicial procedures required to foreclose on real property by foreclosing on our pledge instead, thus accelerating the foreclosure of that community. Furthermore, because of cross-default and cross-collateralization provisions in certain of our mortgage and lease agreements, if we default on one of our payment obligations, we could adversely affect a significant number of our communities. Because the Company is highly leveraged, we may not be able to respond to changing business and economic conditions or continue with selected acquisitions. A substantial portion of our future cash flows will be designated to debt service and lease payments. In the past, we have occasionally been dependent on third-party financing and disposition of assets to fund these obligations in full and we may be required to do so in the future. In addition, we are periodically required to refinance these obligations as they mature. As of December 31, 2012, our total debt, including interest, was $2.1 billion, and our payment obligations, including interest, under long-term operating and capital leases were $7.8 billion. These circumstances could reduce our flexibility and ability to respond to our business needs, including changing business and financial conditions such as increasing interest rates and opportunities to expand our business through selected acquisitions. We may be unable to increase or stabilize our occupancy rates at levels that would result in positive earnings. In previous years, we have been unable to increase our occupancy to levels that would result in net income on a sustained basis. Our historical losses have resulted, in part, from occupancy levels that were lower than anticipated when we acquired or developed our communities. While occupancy levels increased in 2012 in our Same Community Portfolio (the 293 communities we have operated continuously since January 1, 2011), our historical performance has been mixed. Our occupancy levels may not increase in the future and may never reach levels necessary to achieve net income. We may not find additional funding through public or private financing on acceptable terms. We may not find adequate equity, debt, sale-leaseback or other financing when we need it or on terms acceptable to us. This could affect our ability to finance our operations or refinance our communities to avoid the consequences of default and foreclosure under our existing financing as described elsewhere. In addition, if we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our shareholders may experience dilution in their investment. If we fail to comply with financial covenants contained in our debt instruments, our lenders may accelerate the repayment of the related debt. From time to time, we have failed to comply with certain covenants in our financing and lease agreements relating generally to matters such as cash flow, debt, and lease coverage ratios, and certain other performance standards. In the future, we may be unable to comply with these or other covenants. If we fail to comply with any of these requirements and are not able to obtain waivers, our lenders could accelerate the repayment of the related indebtedness so that it becomes due and payable prior to its stated due date, and/or the lessors could terminate lease agreements. We may be unable to repay or refinance this debt if it becomes due. We self-insure many of our liabilities. In recent years, participants in the long-term care industry have experienced an increasing number of lawsuits alleging negligence, malpractice, or other related legal theories. Many of these suits involve large claims and significant legal costs. We currently face such suits because of the nature of our business and expect to continue to do so in the future. For 238 of the 461 communities in our Consolidated Portfolio, we are self-insured and, as such, are responsible for the full loss of any professional liability claims. Claims against us, regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, may also adversely affect the reputation of our communities, undermine our ability to attract residents or expand our business and would require management to devote time to matters unrelated to the operation of our business. We review our liability insurance annually, but we may not be able to obtain third-party liability insurance coverage in the future or, if available, on acceptable terms. 14 Table of Contents We face risks associated with acquisitions. We intend to continue to seek selective acquisition opportunities. However, we may not succeed in identifying any future acquisition opportunities or completing any identified acquisitions. The acquisition of communities presents a number of risks. Existing communities available for acquisition may frequently serve or target different market segments than those we presently serve. It may be necessary in these cases to reposition and renovate acquired communities or turn over the existing resident population to achieve a resident care level and income profile that is consistent with our objectives. In some cases in the past, these obstacles have delayed the achievement of acceptable occupancy levels and increased operating and capital expenditures. As a consequence, we currently plan to target assisted living communities with established operations, which could reduce the number of acquisitions we can complete and increase the expected cost. Even in these acquisitions, however, we may need to make staff and operating management personnel changes to successfully integrate acquired communities into our existing operations. We may not succeed in repositioning acquired communities or in effecting any necessary operational or structural changes and improvements on a timely basis. We also may face unforeseen liabilities attributable to the prior operator of the acquired communities, against whom we may have little or no recourse. We also face risks associated with acquiring ancillary services businesses, especially since we do not have a history of operating such businesses. If the Company is unable to refinance its debt that is scheduled to come due in 2013 on reasonable terms, it may have an adverse effect on the Company and the market price of our common stock. The Company has principal payments on long-term debt of $49.4 million due in 2013, including balloon payments on debt maturing totaling $21.6 million. If the Company is not able to generate sufficient cash flows to make the required payments or refinance this debt on reasonable terms, it may have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock and other adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We expect competition in our industry to increase, which could cause our occupancy rates and resident fees to decline. The senior living industry is highly competitive, and given the relatively low barriers to entry and continuing healthcare cost containment pressures, we expect that our industry will become increasingly competitive in the future. It is possible that market saturation in some locales could have an adverse effect on our communities and their ability to reach and maintain stabilized occupancy levels. Moreover, the senior housing services industry has been subject to pressures that have resulted in the consolidation of many small, local operations into larger regional and national multi-facility operations. We compete with other companies providing assisted living services as well as numerous other companies providing similar service and care alternatives, such as home healthcare agencies, independent living facilities, retirement communities, and skilled nursing facilities. We expect that competition from new market entrants will increase as senior living residences achieve increased market awareness. Some of these competitors may have substantially greater financial resources than we do. Increased competition may limit our ability to attract or retain residents or maintain our existing rate structures. This could lead to lower occupancy rates or lower rate structures in our communities. If development of new senior living facilities outpaces demand, we may experience decreased occupancy, depressed margins, and diminished operating results. In the future, some senior living markets in which we operate could become overbuilt. The barriers to entry in the senior living industry are low. Consequently, the development of new senior living facilities could outpace demand. Overbuilding in the markets in which we operate could thus cause the Company to experience decreased occupancy and depressed margins and could otherwise adversely affect our results of operations. Market forces could undermine our efforts to attract seniors with sufficient resources. We rely on the ability of our residents to pay our fees from their own or family financial resources. We believe that only seniors with income or assets meeting or exceeding the comparable median in the region where our senior living communities are located can afford our fees. The economic recession, depressed housing market, inflation, or other circumstances may undermine the ability of seniors to pay for our services. If we encounter difficulty in attracting seniors with adequate resources to pay for our services, our occupancy rates may decline or we may be forced to lower our rental and service rates. Our labor costs may increase and may not be matched by corresponding increases in rates we charge to our residents. We compete with other providers of assisted living services and long-term care in attracting and retaining qualified and skilled personnel. We depend on our ability to attract and retain management personnel responsible for the day-to-day operations of each of our communities. If we are unable to attract or retain qualified community management personnel, our results of operations may suffer. In addition, possible shortages of nurses or trained personnel may require us to enhance our wage and benefits packages to compete in the hiring and retention of 15 Table of Contents personnel. We also depend on the available labor pool of semi-skilled and unskilled employees in each of the markets in which we operate. From time to time we are the subject of union organizing activity that, if successful, could impact our labor costs. As a result of these and other factors, our labor costs may increase and may not be matched by corresponding increases in rates we charge to our residents. The geographic concentration of our communities could leave us vulnerable to an economic downturn, regulatory changes or acts of nature in those areas, resulting in a decrease in our revenues or an increase in our costs, or otherwise negatively impacting our results of operations. We have a high concentration of communities in various geographic areas, including the states of Florida, Texas, California, Washington, Oregon and Arizona. As a result of this concentration, the conditions of local economies and real estate markets, changes in governmental rules and regulations, particularly with respect to assisted living communities, acts of nature and other factors that may result in a decrease in demand for senior living services in these states could have an adverse effect on our revenues, costs and results of operations. In addition, given the location of our communities, we are particularly susceptible to revenue loss, cost increase or damage caused by other severe weather conditions or natural disasters such as hurricanes, earthquakes or tornados. Any significant loss due to a natural disaster may not be covered by insurance and may lead to an increase in the cost of insurance. Some of our communities generate infectious medical waste due to the illness or physical condition of the residents. The management of infectious medical waste, including handling, storage, transportation, treatment, and disposal, is subject to regulation under various laws, including federal and state environmental laws, as described above under Business—Environmental Matters. These environmental laws set forth the management requirements, as well as permit, record-keeping, notice, and reporting obligations. Each of our communities has an agreement with a waste management company for the proper disposal of all infectious medical waste. The use of such waste management companies does not immunize us from alleged violations of such medical waste laws for operations for which we are responsible even if carried out by such waste management companies, nor does it immunize us from third-party claims for the cost to clean up disposal sites at which such wastes have been disposed. Any finding that we are not in compliance with these environmental laws could adversely affect our business and financial condition. While we are not aware of non-compliance with environmental laws related to infectious medical waste at our communities, these environmental laws are amended from time to time and we cannot predict when and to what extent liability may arise. In addition, because these environmental laws vary from state to state, expansion of our operations to states where we do not currently operate may subject us to additional restrictions on the manner in which we operate our communities. The Chairman of our board of directors, Daniel R. Baty, has personal interests that may conflict with ours. Mr. Baty has engaged in a number of transactions with us, each of which has been approved by a committee of our independent directors. For example, Mr. Baty is the principal owner of Columbia Pacific, a private company engaged in the development and operation of senior living communities and hospitals in India and other parts of Asia. Columbia Pacific and certain of its affiliated partnerships also own assisted living communities, memory care facilities, and independent living facilities in the United States, some of which we manage under various management agreements. These financial interests and management and financing responsibilities of Mr. Baty with respect to Columbia Pacific and certain of their affiliated partnerships could present conflicts of interest with us, including potential competition for residents in markets where both companies operate and competing demands for the time and efforts of Mr. Baty. Mr. Baty’s potentially competitive activities are limited by a shared opportunities agreement between him and the Company. Under the terms of this agreement, Mr. Baty and Columbia Pacific must immediately present to the Company all investment opportunities in senior living communities and ancillary businesses in the United States, Canada, and China. For transactions in the United States and Canada, we then have the option to participate in the investment opportunity through an ownership interest and/or management contract as set forth in the agreement. For transactions in China, we have the option to invest in the opportunity up to 50% of the equity value and compete for management or consulting services. Mr. Baty financially supports some of our recent transactions and the operations of certain communities that we manage with limited guarantees and through his direct and indirect ownership of such communities; we would be unable to benefit from these transactions and managed communities without this support. As of December 31, 2012, we manage six communities owned by Mr. Baty or Columbia Pacific. Mr. Baty was also the guarantor of a portion of our obligations under a 24-community lease with an entity in which Mr. Baty has an ownership interest. We acquired these properties in February 2007 in a transaction in which the entity affiliated with Mr. Baty provided 16 Table of Contents the Company with financing in the amount of $18.0 million for two years, which financing was paid off in July 2007. In 2004, Mr. Baty personally guaranteed $3.0 million of our obligations under a long-term lease with Healthcare Property Investors, Inc., an independent REIT, which terminated with the purchase of these communities in August 2007. Also in 2004, Mr. Baty guaranteed our obligations under a long-term lease relating to 20 communities. As part of this arrangement, which, as of December 31, 2012, continues to be in effect for nine of the communities (the “Cash Flow Sharing Communities”), he shares in 50.0% of the positive cash flow (as defined) and is responsible for 50.0% of the cash deficiency for these communities. In 2008, we entered into a 50-50 joint venture with Mr. Baty to purchase the real estate of eight of the Cash Flow Sharing Communities, into which Mr. Baty contributed approximately $1.2 million in 2010 related to debt refinancings and $1.1 million in 2009. In 2009, we borrowed $3.2 million from Columbia Pacific to finance the purchases of two communities that we previously managed for Columbia Pacific. We subsequently paid off these loans in January 2011. We believe that we would have been unable to take advantage of these transactions and management opportunities without Mr. Baty’s individual and financial support. The ongoing administration of these transactions, however, could adversely affect these continuing relationships because our interests and those of Mr. Baty may not be congruent at all times. In addition, we cannot guarantee that his support will be available in the future. We may be unable to attract and retain key management personnel. We depend upon, and will continue to depend upon, the services of Mr. Baty, our Chairman, and Granger Cobb, our President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Baty has financial interests and management responsibilities with respect to Columbia Pacific and its related partnerships that require a considerable amount of Mr. Baty’s time. As a result, he does not devote his full time and efforts to Emeritus. The loss of Mr. Baty’s services, or those of Mr. Cobb, could adversely affect our business and our results of operations. We also may be unable to attract and retain other qualified executive personnel critical to the success of our business. Our costs of compliance with government regulations may significantly increase in the future. Federal, state, and local authorities heavily regulate the healthcare industry, as described above under Business—Government Regulation. Regulations change frequently, and sometimes require us to make expensive changes in our operations. We cannot predict to what extent legislative or regulatory initiatives will be enacted or adopted or what effect any initiative would have on our business and operating results. Changes in applicable laws and new interpretations of existing laws can significantly affect our operations, as well as our revenues, particularly those from governmental sources, and our expenses. These laws and regulatory requirements could affect our ability to expand into new markets and to expand our services and communities in existing markets. In addition, if any of our presently licensed communities operates outside of its licensing authority, it may be subject to financial or other penalties, including closure of the community and/or liability to residents if injury occurs. Our residential communities are subject to varying degrees of regulation and licensing by local and state health and social service agencies and other regulatory authorities. In addition, our skilled nursing facilities and certain of our senior living communities are subject to extensive federal regulation. Federal, state, and local governments occasionally conduct unannounced investigations, audits, and reviews to determine whether violations of applicable rules and regulations exist. Devoting management and staff time and legal resources to such investigations, as well as any material violation by the Company that is discovered in any such investigation, audit, or review, could strain our resources and affect our results of operations. In addition, regulatory oversight of construction efforts associated with refurbishment could cause us to lose residents and disrupt community operations. We may be unable to satisfy all regulations and requirements or to acquire and maintain any required licenses on a cost-effective basis. We have occasionally received notices of regulatory violations, which we have resolved by paying fines or taking other measures such as limiting our business activities at a particular community until the violation is resolved. Failure to comply with applicable requirements could lead to enforcement action that could materially and adversely affect business and revenues. Loss, suspension, or modification of a license may also cause a default under certain of our leases and financing agreements and/or trigger cross-defaults. The federal and state laws governing assisted living are various and complex. While we endeavor to comply with all laws that regulate the licensure and operation of our communities, it is difficult to predict how our business could be affected if it were subject to an action alleging such violations. The Company is also subject to federal and state regulations regarding government-funded public assistance that prohibit certain business practices and relationships. Because we accept residents who receive financial assistance from governmental sources for their senior living services, we are subject to federal and state regulations that prohibit certain business practices and relationships. Failure to comply with these regulations could prevent 17 Table of Contents reimbursement for our healthcare services under Medicare or Medicaid or similar state reimbursement programs. Our failure to comply with such regulations also could result in substantial financial penalties and/or the suspension or inability to renew our operating licenses. Acceptance of federal or state funds could subject the Company to potential false claims actions or whistleblower claims. Our entrance into the home healthcare and rehabilitation services business subjects the Company to additional federal and state laws and regulations and, if the Company fails to comply with these laws and regulations, could subject the Company to substantial financial and other penalties. Substantially all of our skilled nursing and ancillary services, including those provided by NOC, are reimbursed under Medicare programs. These services are subject to enhanced federal and state laws and regulations, including those regarding acquisition and maintenance of provider and supplier numbers, services provided, quality of care, provision of medically necessary items and services, and billing and claims submission. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject the Company to substantial financial and other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our business and revenues. We face possible environmental liabilities at each of our communities. Under various federal, state, and local environmental laws, ordinances, and regulations, as described above under Business—Environmental Matters, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be held liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances, including asbestos materials that could be located on, in, or under our community. These laws and regulations often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. We could face substantial costs of any required remediation or removal of these substances, and our liability typically is not limited under applicable laws and regulations. Our liability could exceed our communities’ value or the value of our assets. We may be unable to sell or rent our communities, or borrow using our communities as collateral, if any of these substances are present or if we fail to remediate them properly. Under these laws and regulations, if we arrange for the disposal of hazardous or toxic substances such as asbestos materials at a disposal site, we also may be liable for the costs of the removal or destruction of the hazardous or toxic substances at the disposal site. In addition to liability for these costs, we could be liable for governmental fines and injuries to persons or properties. Significant reforms to the United States healthcare system could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. The healthcare reforms contained in the ACA will impact us in some manner, including increasing our costs to provide healthcare benefits to our employees. The specific provisions of the ACA will be phased in over time through 2018. Based on our current assessment, although there are additional expenses that will be incurred in 2013, we do not expect that the ACA will result in a material increase in our operating expenses in 2013. However, we could see significant cost increases beginning in 2014 when certain provisions of the legislation are required to be implemented. The ACA creates a series of robust transparency and reporting requirements for skilled nursing facilities, including requirements to disclose information on organizational structures, financial, clinical and other related data as well as information on officers, directors, trustees or managing employees. Skilled nursing facilities are required to certify to the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General that the information submitted is accurate and current. In addition, a primary goal of healthcare reform is to reduce costs, which includes reductions in the reimbursement paid to us and other healthcare providers. Although 86.1% of our 2012 revenues came from private pay sources, these healthcare reforms or other similar healthcare reforms could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Changes in the reimbursement rates or methods or timing of payment from third party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, or the implementation of other measures to reduce reimbursement for our services and products could result in a reduction in our revenues and operating margins or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations, and liquidity. We depend on reimbursement from third-party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, for a portion of our revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2012, we derived approximately 13.9% of our total revenues from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Nearly all of NOC’s services are reimbursed by Medicare. The Medicare and Medicaid programs are highly regulated and subject to frequent and substantial changes. There are continuing efforts to reform governmental healthcare programs, both as part of the ACA enacted in 2010 and otherwise, that could result in major changes in the healthcare delivery and reimbursement system on a national 18 Table of Contents and state level. Reforms or other changes to the payment systems may be proposed or could be adopted by Congress or Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”). This could result in attempts to reduce or eliminate payments for federal and state healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. Moreover, weak economic conditions are also adversely affecting the budgets of individual states and of the federal government. The Budget Control Act of 2011, enacted on August 2, 2011, increased the United States debt ceiling in connection with deficit reductions over the next ten years. The Budget Control Act of 2011 also established a 12-member joint committee of Congress known as the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction. The goal of the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction was to propose legislation to reduce the United States federal deficit by $1.5 trillion for fiscal years 2012-2021. Since such legislation was not enacted by December 23, 2011, approximately $1.2 trillion in domestic and defense spending reductions was scheduled to automatically begin on January 1, 2013, split evenly between domestic and defense spending. The American Taxpayer Relief Act, effective January 1, 2013, delayed until March 1, 2013 the mandatory sequestration cuts mandated by the Budget Control Act of 2011. Payments to Medicare providers would be subject to these automatic spending reductions, subject to a 2% cap. At this time, it is unclear how this automatic reduction may be applied to various Medicare healthcare programs. Although we cannot predict what other reform proposals will be adopted or finally implemented, healthcare reform and regulations, such as those described above, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity through, among other things, decreasing funds available for our services or increased operating costs. In addition to the risks described above, investing in Emeritus common stock involves the following risks: We may experience volatility in the market price of Emeritus common stock due to the lower trading volume and lower public ownership of Emeritus common stock. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and is likely to continue to be highly volatile. In particular, the volatility of our share price is influenced by lower trading volume and lower public ownership relative to some of our publicly-held competitors, as well as periodic overall fluctuations in the stock market. For example, our closing stock price ranged from $14.44 per share to $24.72 per share during 2012. Because approximately 31.8% of our outstanding shares were owned by affiliates as of December 31, 2012, our stock is relatively less liquid and, therefore, more susceptible to large price fluctuations than many other companies’ shares. Many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to significantly rise and fall, including: · fluctuations in our results of operations; · changes in our business, operations, or prospects; · changes in the regulatory environment; · sales of Emeritus common stock by affiliates; · the hiring or departure of key personnel; · announcements or activities by our competitors; · proposed acquisitions by us or our competitors; · financial results that fail to meet public market analysts’ expectations and changes in stock market analysts’ recommendations regarding us, other healthcare companies, or the healthcare industry in general; · adverse judgments or settlements obligating us to pay damages; · acts of war, terrorism, or national calamities; · industry, domestic and international market and economic conditions; and · decisions by investors to de-emphasize investment categories, groups, or strategies that include our Company or industry. In addition, the stock market periodically experiences significant price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations are often unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of Emeritus common stock. When the market price of a company’s stock drops significantly, shareholders may institute securities class action litigation against that company. Any litigation against us could cause us to incur substantial costs, divert our time and attention and other resources, or otherwise harm our business. Insiders have substantial control over the Company and are able to influence corporate matters. We entered into a shareholders’ agreement in connection with the acquisition of Summerville Senior Living, Inc. (“Summerville”), 19 Table of Contents dated March 29, 2007, as amended April 30, 2010, between us, AP Summerville, LLC, AP Summerville II, LLC, Apollo Real Estate Investment Fund III, L.P., and Apollo Real Estate Investment Fund IV, L.P. (collectively, the “Apollo shareholders”), Saratoga Partners IV, L.P., Saratoga Coinvestment IV, LLC, and Saratoga Management Company LLC (collectively, the “Saratoga shareholders”), and Mr. Baty and certain of his affiliates (collectively, the “Baty shareholders”). Under the terms of this shareholders’ agreement, a representative of each of the Baty shareholders, the Saratoga shareholders and the Apollo shareholders was elected or appointed to our board of directors. In 2010, the representative of the Saratoga shareholders resigned from our board of directors and was not replaced and in 2012; the Saratoga shareholders sold their remaining Emeritus stock and are no longer entitled to elect a director. Our directors and executive officers and their affiliates, including the Baty shareholders and the Apollo shareholders and affiliates, owned, in the aggregate, approximately 31.8% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2012. As a result, these shareholders are able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our Company or its assets. This concentration of ownership could limit a shareholder’s ability to influence corporate matters and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control over us. Future sales of shares by existing shareholders could cause our stock price to decline. As of December 31, 2012, the Company has outstanding approximately 45,814,988 shares of common stock, of which our executive officers and directors, affiliates controlled by them, and other affiliates of ours beneficially own 14,571,213 shares. Shares owned by affiliates currently include 6,510,000 shares held by the Apollo shareholders. In connection with the September 2007 acquisition of Summerville, we entered into a registration rights agreement dated March 29, 2007 with the Apollo shareholders, the Saratoga shareholders, the Baty shareholders and Mr. Cobb. Under the registration statement, we agreed to register shares of common stock beneficially owned by these persons under certain circumstances. As of March 1, 2013, the Apollo shareholders may sell up to $58.75 million of its shares under an existing shelf registration statement that we filed in 2010 and which expires on June 18, 2013. In addition, each of the Apollo shareholders and the Baty shareholders have the right to request that we file additional registration statements. We have also granted the shareholders who are parties to the registration rights agreement certain customary incidental, or “piggyback,” registration rights to participate in registrations initiated by us for our own account or other security holders. As of December 31, 2012, options for a total of 4.4 million shares of common stock were outstanding under our equity incentive plans, of which a total of 2.8 million shares were then exercisable. Of the shares exercisable, 920,000 shares were exercisable at a price in excess of our stock trading price as of December 31, 2012. All of the shares issuable on exercise of such vested options are eligible for sale in the public market. If our executive officers, directors, or significant shareholders sell, or indicate an intention to sell, substantial amounts of Emeritus common stock in the public market, the trading price of our stock could decline. In addition, we may issue equity securities in the future, including securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or other equity securities, including sales of shares in connection with any future acquisitions, could be substantially dilutive to our shareholders. These sales may have a harmful effect on prevailing market prices for our common stock and our ability to raise additional capital in the financial markets at a time and price favorable to us. Moreover, to the extent that we issue restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights, options, or warrants to purchase our common stock in the future and those stock appreciation rights, options, or warrants are exercised or as the restricted stock units vest, our shareholders may experience further dilution. In December 2011 and 2012, we issued a total of 435,000 and 366,172 shares, respectively, of restricted stock to certain of our executive officers, respectively, which will vest over four years if specified Company annual performance criteria are met. Holders of our shares of common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle holders to purchase a pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, such sales or offerings could result in increased dilution to our shareholders. Our certificate of incorporation provides that we have authority to issue 100,000,000 shares of common stock and 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock. As of December 31, 2012, 45,814,988 shares of common stock and no shares of preferred or other capital stock were issued and outstanding. 20 Table of Contents If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock may depend in part on any research reports that securities or industry analysts publish about the Company or our business. We currently have limited research coverage by securities and industry analysts. Lack of research coverage could negatively impact the market for our stock. In the event additional securities or industry analysts do initiate coverage of our Company and one or more of these analysts downgrade our common stock or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our common stock price would likely decline. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any dividends on our common stock. We currently expect to retain any future earnings to finance the operation and expansion of our business. Future dividend payments will depend on our results of operations, financial condition, capital expenditure plans and other obligations and circumstances, and will be at the sole discretion of our board of directors. Some of our existing leases and lending arrangements contain provisions that restrict our ability to pay dividends, and we anticipate that the terms of future leases and debt financing arrangements may contain similar restrictions. Therefore, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Our issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect holders of our common stock. Our board of directors is authorized to issue preferred stock without any action on the part of our holders of common stock. Our board of directors also has the power, without shareholder approval, to set the terms of any such series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights, preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends, or if we liquidate, dissolve, or wind up our business, and other terms. If we issue preferred stock in the future that has preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the rights of holders of our common stock, or the price of our common stock, could be adversely affected. Antitakeover provisions of Washington law, our restated articles of incorporation and our restated bylaws may prevent or delay an acquisition of us that shareholders may consider favorable or may prevent or delay attempts to replace or remove our board of directors. Our restated articles of incorporation and restated bylaws contain provisions, such as the right of our directors to issue preferred stock from time to time with voting, economic, and other rights superior to those of our common stock without the consent of our shareholders, and prohibitions on cumulative voting in the election of directors, all of which could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. In addition, our restated articles of incorporation provide for our board of directors to be divided into three classes serving staggered terms of three years each, permit removal of directors only for cause by the holders of not less than two-thirds of the shares entitled to elect the director whose removal is sought, and require two-thirds shareholder approval of certain matters, including business combination transactions not approved by our incumbent board of directors and the amendment of our restated bylaws. Furthermore, our restated bylaws require advance notice of shareholder proposals and nominations and impose restrictions on the persons who may call special shareholder meetings. In addition, Chapter 23B.19 of the Washington Business Corporation Act prohibits certain business combinations between us and certain significant shareholders unless certain conditions are met. These provisions may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our Company even if this change of control would benefit our shareholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED SEC STAFF COMMENTS None. 21 Table of Contents 