ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Discussion of our business and operations included in this annual report on Form 10-K should be read together with the risk factors set forth below. They describe various risks and uncertainties to which we are or may become subject. These risks and uncertainties, together with other factors described elsewhere in this report, have the potential to affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies or prospects in a material and adverse manner. New risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect financial performance. Each of the risks described below could adversely impact the value of our securities. These statements, like all statements in this report, speak only as of the date of this report (unless another date is indicated), and we undertake no obligation to update or revise the statements in light of future developments. We cannot assure you that the Company will be successful in commercializing the Medicsight CAD products or the Medicexchange portal, or if the products or the portal are commercialized, that they will be profitable to the Company. We face obstacles in commercializing the Medicsight CAD products and the Medicexchange portal and in generating operating revenues as detailed below. The Company does not believe that there is currently any comparable system that is competitive with the Medicsight CAD products. There are computer-aided diagnostic systems that operate in the field, but, in our view, such other systems are more dependent than ours on human resources to carry out the analysis. We are not aware of other systems in the field that have the automated capability of our products. The Company has had only a limited operating history and no revenues from its continuing operations upon which an evaluation of its prospects can be made. The Company’s prospects must be considered keeping in mind the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered in the establishment of a new business in constantly changing industry. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to achieve profitable operations in the foreseeable future or at all. The Company has identified a number of specific risk areas that may affect the Company’s operations and results in the future: Technical Risks. The Medicsight CAD system may not deliver the levels of accuracy and reliability needed, or the development of such accuracy and reliability may be delayed. Market Risks The market for the Medicsight CAD products and Medicexchange may be slower to develop or smaller than estimated or it may be more difficult to build the market than anticipated. The medical community may resist the Medicsight CAD and Medicexchange products or be slower to accept them than we expect. Revenues from Medicsight CAD and Medicexchange may be delayed or costs may be higher than expected which may result in the Company requiring additional funding. Regulatory Risks. The Medicsight CAD system is subject to regulatory requirements in the United States Europe, Japan, China and our other targeted markets. Necessary regulatory approvals may not be obtained or may be delayed. We may incur substantial additional cost in obtaining regulatory approvals for our products in our targeted markets. 11 Competitive Risks There are a number of groups and organizations, such as software companies in the medical imaging field, MDCT scanner manufacturers, screening companies and other healthcare providers that may develop a competitive offering to the Medicsight CAD products and Medicexchange. In addition these competitors may have significantly greater resources than the Company. We cannot make any assurance that they will not attempt to develop such offerings, that they will not be successful in developing such offerings or that any offerings they do develop will not have a competitive edge over Medicsight CAD products and Medicexchange. Financial Risk The Company has incurred significant operating losses since inception and has generated no revenues from continuing operations. As a result, the Company has generated negative cash flows from operations and has an accumulated deficit at December 31, 2006. The Company is operating in a developing industry based on new technology and its primary source of funds to date has been through the issuance of securities and borrowed funds. While the Company is optimistic and believes appropriate actions are being taken, there can be no assurance that management’s efforts will be successful or that the products the Company develops and markets will be accepted by consumers. Corporate Structure. The Company’s corporate structure may make it more difficult or costly to take certain actions. The Company conducts its business through: (a) Medicsight PLC, a U.K. public company which is 77% owned by the Company, and through Medicsight PLC’s subsidiaries in the United Kingdom, the United States, Japan and Gibraltar and; (b) through the Medicexchange subsidiaries, which the Company holdings range between 75% and 90%. Although the Company and Medicsight PLC and Medicexchange PLC share some directors and management, they are required to comply with corporate governance and other laws and rules applicable to public companies in the United Kingdom and the United States. Should the Company propose to take any action, such as a transfer or allocation of assets or liabilities between the Company its subsidiaries, the Company would have to take into consideration the potentially conflicting interests of the Company’s stockholders and the minority stockholders. This may deter the Company from taking such actions that might otherwise be in the best interest of the Company or cause the Company to incur additional costs in taking such actions. The subsidiary companies would not be able to pay dividends or make other distributions of profits or assets to the Company without making pro rata payments or distributions to the respective minority stockholders. Although neither the subsidiary companies nor the Company has plans to pay dividends or make distributions to its shareholders, the Company’s corporate structure may deter its subsidiaries from doing so in the future. The protection of our intellectual property may be uncertain, and we may face possible claims of others. Although we have received patents and have filed patent applications with respect to certain aspects of our technology, we generally do not rely on patent protection with respect to our products and technologies. Instead, we rely primarily on a combination of trade secret and copyright law, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements and other protective measures to protect intellectual property rights pertaining to our products and technologies. Such measures may not provide meaningful protection of our trade secrets, know-how or other intellectual property in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure. Others may independently develop similar technologies or duplicate our technologies. In addition, to the extent that we apply for any patents, such applications may not result in issued patents or, if issued, such patents may not be valid or of value. Third parties could, in the future, assert infringement or misappropriation claims against us with respect to our current or future products and technologies, or we may need to assert claims of infringement against third parties. Any infringement or misappropriation claim by us or against us could place significant strain on our financial resources, divert management’s attention from our business and harm our reputation. The costs of prosecuting or defending an intellectual property claim could be substantial and could adversely affect our business, even if we are ultimately successful in prosecuting or defending any such claims. If our products or technologies are found to infringe the rights of a third party, we could be required to pay significant damages or license fees or cease production, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 12 If we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business would be harmed. We expect to rapidly expand our operations and grow our sales, research and development and administrative operations. This expansion is expected to place a significant strain on our management and will require hiring a significant number of qualified personnel. Accordingly, recruiting and retaining such personnel in the future will be critical to our success. There is intense competition from other companies, research and academic institutions, government entities and other organizations for qualified personnel in the areas of our activities. If we fail to identify, attract, retain and motivate these highly skilled personnel, we may be unable to continue our marketing and development activities. If we do not effectively manage changes in our business, these changes could place a significant strain on our management and operations and, as a result, our business might not succeed. Our ability to grow successfully requires an effective planning and management process. The expansion and growth of our business could place a significant strain on our management systems, infrastructure and other resources. To manage our growth successfully, we must continue to improve and expand our systems and infrastructure in a timely and efficient manner. Our controls, systems, procedures and resources may not be adequate to support a changing and growing company. If our management fails to respond effectively to changes and growth in our business, including acquisitions, such failure could have a material adverse effect on our business. Foreign Exchange Risks As the Company’s main operating currency is UK sterling (£) and its financial statements are reported in US Dollars, the Company’s assets and liabilities and its results of operations are affected by movements in the $:£ exchange rate. Other Risks The Company’s ability to deliver its software could be hindered by risks such as the loss of key personnel or the patents and trademarks being successfully challenged or credit facilities being reduced or terminated by lenders. 13 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 