ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS: Every investor or potential investor in Southern Copper Corporation should carefully consider the following risk factors. General Risks Relating to Our Business Our financial performance is highly dependent on the price of copper and the other metals we produce. Our financial performance is significantly affected by the market prices of the metals that we produce, particularly the market prices of copper, molybdenum, zinc and silver. Historically, prices of the metals we produce have been subject to wide fluctuations and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including international economic and political conditions, levels of supply and demand, the availability and costs of substitutes, inventory levels maintained by users, actions of participants in the commodities markets and currency exchange rates. In addition, the market prices of copper and certain other metals have on occasion been subject to rapid short-term changes. During the last 15-year period the yearly average price of copper per pound on the COMEX ranged from a low $0.72 in 1999 and 2002, to a high $3.23 in 2007. In 2009 the COMEX copper price increased from a quarterly low of $1.57 per pound in the first quarter to a quarterly high of $3.03 per pound in the fourth quarter and closed the year at $3.33 per pound. The LME copper prices during these periods, while slightly different, closely paralleled the COMEX prices. Molybdenum, zinc and silver during the same 15-year period showed average highs and lows as follows: molybdenum $2.35 per pound, low in 2001 and $31.99 per pound, high in 2005; zinc $0.35 per pound, low in 2002 and $1.49 per pound, high in 2006; and silver $4.36 per ounce, low in 2001 and $14.97 per ounce high in 2008. We cannot predict whether metals prices will rise or fall in the future. Further declines in metals prices and, in particular, copper or molybdenum prices, will have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition, and we might, in very adverse market conditions, consider curtailing or modifying certain of our mining and processing operations. Changes in the level of demand for our products could adversely affect our product sales. Our revenue is dependent on the level of industrial and consumer demand for the concentrates and refined and semi-refined metal products we sell. Changes in technology, industrial processes and consumer habits may affect the level of that demand to the extent that changes increase or decrease the need for our metal products. A change in demand, including any change resulting from economic slow-downs or recessions, could impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our actual reserves may not conform to our current estimates of our ore deposits and we depend on our ability to replenish ore reserves for our long-term viability. There is a degree of uncertainty attributable to the calculation of reserves. Until reserves are actually mined and processed, the quantity of ore and grades must be considered as estimates only. The proven and probable ore reserves data included in this report are estimates prepared by us based on evaluation methods generally used in the mining industry. We may be required in the future to revise our reserves estimates based on our actual production. We cannot assure you that our actual 19 Table of Contents reserves conform to geological, metallurgical or other expectations or that the estimated volume and grade of ore will be recovered. Market prices of our metals, increased production costs, reduced recovery rates, short-term operating factors, royalty taxes and other factors may render proven and probable reserves uneconomic to exploit and may result in revisions of reserves data from time to time. Reserves data are not indicative of future results of operations. Our reserves are depleted as we mine. We depend on our ability to replenish our ore reserves for our long-term viability. We use several strategies to replenish and increase our ore reserves, including exploration and investment in properties located near our existing mine sites and investing in technology that could extend the life of a mine by allowing us to cost-effectively process ore types that were previously considered uneconomic. Acquisitions may also contribute to increased ore reserves and we review potential acquisition opportunities on a regular basis. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue with our strategy to replenish reserves indefinitively. Our business requires levels of capital expenditures which we may not be able to maintain. Our business is capital intensive. Specifically, the exploration and exploitation of copper and other metal reserves, mining, smelting and refining costs, the maintenance of machinery and equipment and compliance with laws and regulations require significant capital expenditures. We must continue to invest capital to maintain or to increase the amount of copper reserves that we exploit and the amount of copper and other metals we produce. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our production levels to generate sufficient cash, or that we have access to sufficient financing to continue our exploration, exploitation and refining activities at or above present levels. Restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness and the indebtedness of our Minera Mexico subsidiary may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. Our financing instruments and those of our Minera Mexico subsidiary include financial and other restrictive covenants that, among other things, limit our and Minera Mexico’s abilities to incur additional debt and sell assets. If either we or our Minera Mexico subsidiary do not comply with these obligations, we could be in default under the applicable agreements which, if not addressed or waived, could require repayment of the indebtedness immediately. Our Minera Mexico subsidiary is further limited by the terms of its outstanding notes, which also restrict the Company’s applicable incurrence of debt and liens. In addition, future credit facilities may contain limitations on our incurrence of additional debt and liens, on our ability to dispose of assets, or on our ability to pay dividends to our Common Stock holders. Applicable law restricts the payment of dividends from our Minera Mexico subsidiary to us. Minera Mexico is a Mexican company and, as such, may pay dividends only out of net income that has been approved by the shareholders. Shareholders must also approve the actual dividend payment, after mandatory legal reserves have been created and losses for prior fiscal years have been satisfied. As a result, these legal constraints may limit the ability of our Minera Mexico subsidiary to pay dividends to us, which in turn, may have an impact on our ability to service debt. Through 2009, our management set aside $1.8 billion of unremitted earnings of its Mexican subsidiary, Minera Mexico, as appropriated retained earnings. It is our intention to indefinitely invest these funds in Mexico. These amounts are earmarked for the Company’s Mexican expansion program. 20 Table of Contents Our operations are subject to risks, some of which are not insurable. The business of mining, smelting and refining copper, zinc and other metals is subject to a number of risks and hazards, including industrial accidents, labor disputes, unusual or unexpected geological conditions, changes in the regulatory environment, environmental hazards and weather and other natural phenomena, such as earthquakes. Such occurrences could result in damage to, or destruction of, mining operations resulting in monetary losses and possible legal liability. In particular, surface and underground mining and related processing activities present inherent risks of injury to personnel and damage to equipment. We maintain insurance against many of these and other risks, which may not provide adequate coverage in certain circumstances. Insurance against certain risks, including certain liabilities for environmental damage or hazards as a result of exploration and production, is not generally available to us or other companies within the mining industry. Nevertheless recent environmental legal initiatives have considered future regulations regarding environmental damage insurance. In case such regulations come into force, we will have to analyze the need to obtain such insurance. We do not have, and do not intend to obtain, political risk insurance. These or other uninsured events may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Deliveries under our copper sales agreements can be suspended or cancelled by our customers in certain cases. Under each of our copper sales agreements, we or our customers may suspend or cancel delivery of copper during a period of force majeure. Events of force majeure under these agreements include acts of nature, labor strikes, fires, floods, wars, transportation delays, government actions or other events that are beyond the control of the parties. Any suspension or cancellation by our customers of deliveries under our copper or other sales contracts that are not replaced by deliveries under new contracts or sales on the spot market would reduce our cash flow and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The copper mining industry is highly competitive. We face competition from other copper mining and producing companies around the world. We cannot assure you that competition from lower cost producers will not adversely affect us in the future. In addition, mines have limited lives and, as a result, we must periodically seek to replace and expand our reserves by acquiring new properties. Significant competition exists to acquire properties producing or capable of producing copper and other metals. The mining industry has experienced significant consolidation in recent years, including consolidation among some of our main competitors, as a result of which an increased percentage of copper production is from companies that also produce other products and may, consequently, be more diversified than we are. We cannot assure you that the result of current or further consolidation in the industry will not adversely affect us. Potential changes to international trade agreements, trade concessions or other political and economic arrangements may benefit copper producers operating in countries other than Peru and Mexico, where our mining operations are currently located. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete on the basis of price or other factors with companies that in the future may benefit from favorable trading or other arrangements. 21 Table of Contents Interruptions of energy supply or increases in energy costs and other production costs may adversely affect our results of operations. We require substantial amounts of fuel oil, electricity and other resources for our operations. Fuel, gas and power costs constitute approximately 36% of our total 2009 production cost. We rely upon third parties for our supply of the energy resources consumed in our operations. The prices for and availability of energy resources may be subject to change or curtailment, respectively, due to, among other things, new laws or regulations, imposition of new taxes or tariffs, interruptions in production by suppliers, worldwide price levels and market conditions. In recent years the price of oil has risen dramatically due to a variety of factors. Disruptions in energy supply or increases in costs of energy resources or increases of other production costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Shortages of water supply, critical parts, equipment and skilled labor may adversely affect our operations and development projects Our mining operations require significant quantities of water for mining, ore processing and related support facilities. Although each operation currently has sufficient water rights to cover its operational demands, the loss of some or all water rights for any of our mines or operations, in whole or in part, or shortages of water to which we have rights could require us to curtail or shut down mining production and could prevent us from pursuing expansion opportunities. Additionally, we have not yet secured adequate water rights to support all of our announced expansion projects, and our inability to secure those rights could prevent us from pursuing some of those opportunities. In addition, future shortages of critical parts, equipment and skilled labor could adversely affect our operations and development projects. Our results and financial condition are affected by global and local market conditions. We are subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in domestic and global economic and political conditions. Our industry is cyclical by nature and fluctuates with economic cycles, including the current global economic recession. If the world-wide financial and economic crisis continues or intensifies, it could have an impact on our business and our financial condition. We cannot predict if the administrative and legislative actions taken in the United States and elsewhere in the world to address this situation will be successful in reducing the severity or duration of the recession. The continuation or intensification of the global economic recession and credit crisis in the financial markets may prompt banks to limit or deny lending to us or to our customers, which may have an adverse effect on our liquidity and on our ability to carry out our announced capital investment programs. Additionally, the continuation or intensification of the global economic recession and credit crisis may prompt our customers to slow down or reduce the purchase of our products. We may experience longer sales cycles, difficulty in collecting sales proceeds, and lower prices for our products. A change in the demand of our products could impact our results of operations and financial condition. We cannot provide any assurance that any of these events will not have a material adverse effect on market conditions, prices of our securities, our ability to obtain financing, and our results of operations and financial condition. 22 Table of Contents Environmental, health and safety laws, regulatory response to climate change, and other regulations may increase our costs of doing business, restrict our operations or result in operational delays. Our exploration, mining, milling, smelting and refining activities are subject to a number of Peruvian and Mexican laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, as well as certain industry technical standards. Additional matters subject to regulation include, but are not limited to, concession fees, transportation, production, water use and discharge, power use and generation, use and storage of explosives, surface rights, housing and other facilities for workers, reclamation, taxation, labor standards, mine safety and occupational health. Environmental regulations in Peru and Mexico have become increasingly stringent over the last decade and we have been required to dedicate more time and money to compliance and remediation activities. Furthermore, Mexican authorities have become more rigorous and strict in enforcing Mexican environmental laws. We expect additional laws and regulations will be enacted over time with respect to environmental matters. Recently, Peruvian environmental laws have been enacted imposing closure and remediation obligations on the mining industry. Additionally, future changes to environmental laws and regulations could increase the extent of reclamation and remediation work required to be performed by us. Any such increases in future costs could materially impact the amounts charged to operations for reclamation and remediation. We further discuss these obligations in our Note 10 “Asset Retirement Obligation” to our consolidated financial statements. Moreover, our Mexican operations are also subject to the environmental agreement entered into by Mexico, the United States and Canada in connection with the North American Free Trade Agreement. We believe our operations are in compliance with all environmental laws and regulations within the areas we operate. Regulatory response to climate change, restrictions, caps, taxes, or other controls on emissions of greenhouse gasses, including on emissions from the combustion of carbon-based fuels, could significantly increase our operating costs. Restrictions on emissions could also affect our customers. A number of governments or governmental bodies have introduced or are contemplating regulatory changes in response to the potential impacts of climate change. These regulatory initiatives will be either voluntary or mandatory and may impact our operations directly or through our suppliers or customers. The potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain, and would be particular to the geographic circumstances. These may include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, changing sea levels, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperatures. These effects may adversely impact the cost, production and financial performance of our operations. The development of more stringent environmental protection programs in Peru and Mexico and in relevant trade agreements could impose constraints and additional costs on our operations and require us to make significant capital expenditures in the future. We cannot assure you that future legislative, regulatory or trade developments will not have an adverse effect on our business, properties, operating results, financial condition or prospects. 23 Table of Contents Our metals exploration efforts are highly speculative in nature and may be unsuccessful. Metals exploration is highly speculative in nature, involves many risks and is frequently unsuccessful. Once mineralization is discovered, it may take a number of years from the initial phases of drilling before production is possible, during which time the economic feasibility of production may change. Substantial expenditures are required to establish proven and probable ore reserves through drilling, to determine metallurgical processes to extract the metals from the ore and, in the case of new properties, to construct mining and processing facilities. We cannot assure you that our exploration programs will result in the expansion or replacement of current production with new proven and probable ore reserves. Development projects have no operating history upon which to base estimates of proven and probable ore reserves and estimates of future cash operating costs. Estimates are, to a large extent, based upon the interpretation of geological data obtained from drill holes and other sampling techniques, and feasibility studies that derive estimates of cash operating costs based upon anticipated tonnage and grades of ore to be mined and processed, the configuration of the ore body, expected recovery rates of the mineral from the ore, comparable facility and equipment operating costs, anticipated climatic conditions and other factors. As a result, actual cash operating costs and economic returns based upon development of proven and probable ore reserves may differ significantly from those originally estimated. Moreover, significant decreases in actual or expected prices may mean reserves, once found, will be uneconomical to produce. Our profits may be negatively affected by currency exchange rate fluctuations. The U.S. dollar is our functional currency and our revenues are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. However, portions of our operating costs are denominated in Peruvian nuevos soles and Mexican pesos. Accordingly, when inflation in Peru or Mexico increases without a corresponding devaluation of the nuevo sol or the Mexican peso our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. To manage the volatility related to the risk of currency rate fluctuations, we may enter into forward exchange contracts. We cannot assure you, however, that currency fluctuations will not have an impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our assets, earnings and cash flows are influenced by various currencies due to the geographic diversity of our sales and the countries in which we operate. As some of our costs are incurred in currencies other than our functional currency, the U.S. dollar, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may have a significant impact on our financial results. These costs principally include electricity, labor, maintenance, local contractors and fuel. For the year ended December 31, 2009, a substantial portion of our costs were denominated in a currency other than U.S. dollar. Operating costs are influenced by the currencies of the countries where our mines and processing plants are located and also by those currencies in which the costs of equipment and services are determined. The Peruvian nuevo sol, the Mexican peso and the U.S. dollar are the currencies which most influence our costs. Further, in the past there has been a strong correlation between copper prices and the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar. A strengthening of the U.S. dollar may therefore be accompanied by lower copper prices, which would negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents We may be adversely affected by challenges relating to slope stability. Our open-pit mines get deeper as we mine them, presenting certain geotechnical challenges including the possibility of slope failure. If we are required to decrease pit slope angles or provide additional road access to prevent such a failure, our stated reserves could be negatively affected. Further, hydrological conditions relating to pit slopes, renewal of material displaced by slope failures and increased stripping requirements could also negatively affect our stated reserves. We have taken actions in order to maintain slope stability, but we cannot assure you that we will not have to take additional action in the future or that our actions taken to date will be sufficient. Unexpected failure or additional requirements to prevent slope failure may negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition, as well as have the effect of diminishing our stated ore reserves. We may be adversely affected by labor disputes. In the last several years we have experienced a number of strikes or other labor disruptions that have had an adverse impact on our operations and operating results. As of December 31, 2009, unions represented approximately 71% of our workforce. In recent years our Cananea mine has experienced a number of labor stoppages. Since July 30, 2007 the mine has been on strike which continues into 2010. Related to the Cananea strike, on January 7, 2009 the judge of the fifth district on labor matters annulled a decision favorable to the Company. The Company filed a request for a review of this ruling before an appellate federal court, which declared the strike legal on March 19, 2009. On March 20, 2009 the Company notified the Mexican Federal Labor Court of the termination of all the individual labor contracts of the Cananea workers, including the collective bargaining agreement with the Union. This decision was based upon a finding by the Mexican mining authorities that confirmed that the Cananea mine was in a force majeure situation since it was unable to operate due to severe damages caused by striking workers. On April 14, 2009, the Mexican Federal Labor Court issued a resolution approving the termination of Cananea’s labor relationships with individual and unionized employees, as well as the termination of its collective bargaining agreement with its employees and with the National Mining and Metal Workers Union. This ruling has been challenged before federal tribunals. Most of individual challenges by unionized workers have been resolved by a federal tribunal, dismissing their complaint. The case presented by the National Mining and Metal Workers Union is pending before a federal tribunal. The Company, the State of Sonora and the Mexican federal government are working to restore the necessary legal and safety conditions to resume operations at Cananea. On February 11, 2010 a Mexican Federal Labor court ruled that the damages caused to the Cananea mine by the neglect and sabotage of striking workers since the commencement of the labor stopagges in July 2007 resulted in force majeure, thus providing legal basis for the termination of individual and unionized employees by the Company. The Company expects due compliance of the referred ruling by the relevant federal and state authorities and looks forward to recovering control of the Cananea mine. Due to the lengthy work stoppage the Company has performed an impairment analysis on the assets at the Cananea mine. The Company has determined through its impairment analysis that no impairment exists as of December 31, 2009. Should estimates of future copper and molybdenum prices decrease significantly, such determination could change. During 2009, the Company continued providing periodic maintenance to the assets. 25 Table of Contents Additionally, our Taxco and San Martin mines have been on strike since July 2007. It is expected that operations at these mines will remain suspended until these labor issues are resolved. On December 10, 2009 a federal tribunal confirmed the legality of the San Martin strike. We cannot assure you when these strikes will be settled, or that in the future we will not experience strikes or other labor related work stoppages that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our new mining or metal production projects may be subject to additional costs due to community actions and other factors Our exploration, mining, milling, smelting and refining activities are subject to Peruvian and Mexican laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, as well as certain industry technical standards. As in any other country, environmental regulations in Peru and Mexico have become increasingly stringent over the last decades. In accordance with mining regulations in the countries where we operate, we have to submit an environmental impact assessment (“EIA”) for all our new mining projects or expansions of existing mining operations and/or facilities. The EIA is then discussed at various open hearings with the local communities, where they have the opportunity to voice their opinion and/or concerns. In Peru, the Ministry of Energy and Mines (“MEM”) usually requires the mining companies to address the questions of the communities. The MEM is the entity that approves the EIA and the execution of mining projects. The Tia Maria project located in the Peruvian region of Arequipa, is expected to produce about 260 million pounds of SX-EW copper cathodes per year. The approved budget for the project is $934 million. Through December 31, 2009, $280 million has been invested in this project. At the last public hearing in August 2009, some of the local communities in the surrounding area of the Tia Maria project have opposed the use of underground water for the project alleging that it could cause a shortage of water supply for the farmers in the local communities and other potential impacts. We are working with the local communities and the Peruvian authorities to respond to the communities concerns on the project and ensure that our Tia Maria mining project complies with all environmental regulations and other legal requirements in Peru. Under Peruvian law, the Company has to submit again its proposal at a third and final public hearing. This hearing scheduled to take place on February 15, 2010 has been postponed and the Company is working with the MEM to reschedule the hearing. After this, the MEM will have jurisdiction to approve the EIA or not. Construction is delayed pending this approval. We are confident that we will continue with the Tia Maria project. However, this project, or any other project which we may undertake in the future, may be subject to additional costs or delays due to local community actions or other factors. We are controlled by Grupo Mexico, which exercises control over our affairs and policies and whose interests may be different from yours. Grupo Mexico owns indirectly 80% of our capital stock. Certain of our and Minera Mexico’s officers and directors are also officers of Grupo Mexico. We cannot assure you that the interests of Grupo Mexico will not conflict with ours. 26 Table of Contents Grupo Mexico has the ability to determine the outcome of substantially all matters submitted for a vote to our stockholders and thus exercises control over our business policies and affairs, including the following: · the composition of our Board of Directors and, as a result, any determinations of our Board with respect to our business direction and policy, including the appointment and removal of our officers; · determinations with respect to mergers and other business combinations, including those that may result in a change of control; · whether dividends are paid or other distributions are made and the amount of any dividends or other distributions; · sales and dispositions of our assets; and · the amount of debt financing that we incur. Grupo Mexico reported that under its reorganization plan for Asarco, LLC (“Asarco”), it had secured financing of $1.5 billion. We cannot assure you that this increased financial obligation of our parent will not result in our parent corporation attempting to obtain increased dividends or other funding from us. In addition, we and Minera Mexico have in the past engaged in, and expect to continue to engage in, transactions with Grupo Mexico and its other affiliates which are related party transactions and may present conflicts of interest. For additional information regarding the share ownership of, and our relationships with, Grupo Mexico and its affiliates, see Note 19 “Related Party Transactions.” We may not continue to pay a significant amount of our net income as cash dividends on our Common Stock in the future. We have distributed a significant amount of our net income as dividends since 1996. Our dividend practice is subject to change at the discretion of our Board of Directors at any time. The amount that we pay in dividends is subject to a number of factors, including our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, tax considerations, future prospects, legal restrictions, contractual restrictions in credit agreements, limitations imposed by the government of Peru, Mexico or other countries where we have significant operations and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant. In light of our expansion program and the current global economic conditions, it is possible that future dividend distributions will be reduced from the levels of recent years. Risks Associated with Doing Business in Peru and Mexico There is uncertainty as to the termination and renewal of our mining concessions. Under the laws of Peru and Mexico, mineral resources belong to the state and government concessions are required in both countries to explore for or exploit mineral reserves. In Peru, our mineral rights derive from concessions from the Peruvian Ministry of Energy and Mines for our exploration, exploitation, extraction and/or production operations. In Mexico, our mineral rights derive from concessions granted, on a discretionary basis, by the Ministry of Economy, pursuant to the Mining Law and regulations thereunder. Mining concessions in both Peru and Mexico may be terminated if the obligations of the concessionaire are not satisfied. In Peru, we are obligated to pay certain fees for our mining concession. In Mexico, we are obligated, among other things, to explore or exploit the relevant concession, to pay any relevant fees, to comply with all 27 Table of Contents environmental and safety standards, to provide information to the Ministry of Economy and to allow inspections by the Ministry of Economy. Any termination or unfavorable modification of the terms of one or more of our concessions, or failure to obtain renewals of such concessions subject to renewal or extensions, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and prospects. Peruvian economic and political conditions may have an adverse impact on our business. A significant part of our operations are conducted in Peru. Accordingly, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be affected by changes in economic or other policies of the Peruvian government or other political, regulatory or economic developments in Peru. During the past several decades, Peru has had a history of political instability that has included military coups and a succession of regimes with differing policies and programs. Past governments have frequently intervened in the nation’s economy and social structure. Among other actions, past governments have imposed controls on prices, exchange rates and local and foreign investment as well as limitations on imports, have restricted the ability of companies to dismiss employees, have expropriated private sector assets (including mining companies), have prohibited the remittance of profits to foreign investors. For further discussion of contributions that the Company agreed to make to support the development of Peru and Peruvian legislation imposing royalty charges on mining companies, see “Regional Development Contribution” and “Royalty Charge” in our Note 14 “Commitments and Contingencies” to our consolidated financial statements. Terrorism in Peru was a risk in the 1980s and 1990s due to the presence of Sendero Luminoso’s, or Shining path and the Movimiento Revolucionario Tupac Amaru’s or Tupac Amaru Revolutionary Movement political activities. In the past decade (2000s) a few isolated terrorist incidents, mainly related to drug activities, have occurred in rural areas where drugs are processed. Because we have significant operations in Peru, we cannot provide any assurance that political developments and economic conditions in Peru and/or terrorist activity will not have a material adverse effect on market conditions, prices of our securities, our ability to obtain financing, and our results of operations and financial condition. Mexican economic and political conditions may have an adverse impact on our business. A significant part of our operations are based in Mexico. In the past, Mexico has experienced both prolonged periods of weak economic conditions and dramatic deterioration in economic conditions, characterized by exchange rate instability and significant devaluation of the peso, increased inflation, high domestic interest rates, a substantial outflow of capital, negative economic growth, reduced consumer purchasing power and high unemployment. An economic crisis occurred in 1995 in the context of a series of internal disruptions and political events including a large current account deficit, civil unrest in the southern state of Chiapas, the assassination of two prominent political figures, a substantial outflow of capital and a significant devaluation of the peso. Because we have significant operations in Mexico, we cannot provide any assurance that political developments and economic conditions in Mexico will not have a material adverse effect on market conditions, prices of our securities, our ability to obtain financing, and our results of operations and financial condition. 28 Table of Contents Peruvian inflation, reduced economic growth and fluctuations in the nuevo sol exchange rate may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Over the past several decades, Peru has experienced periods of high inflation, slow or negative economic growth and substantial currency devaluation. The inflation rate in Peru, as measured by the Indice de Precios al Consumidor (Consumer Price Index) and published by the Instituto Nacional de Estadistica e Informatica, (National Institute of Statistics and Informatics), has fallen from a high of 7,649.7% in 1990 to 0.2% in 2009. The Peruvian currency has been devalued numerous times during the last 20 years. The devaluation rate has decreased from a high of 4,019.3% in 1990 to a revaluation of 8.0% in 2009. Our revenues are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars and our operating expenses are partly denominated in U.S. dollars. If inflation in Peru were to increase without a corresponding devaluation of the nuevo sol relative to the U.S. dollar, our financial position and results of operations, and the market price of our Common Stock, could be affected. Although the Peruvian government’s economic policy reduced inflation and the Peruvian economy has experienced significant growth in recent years, we cannot assure you that inflation will not increase from its current level or that such growth will continue in the future at similar rates or at all. Among the economic circumstances that could lead to a devaluation of the nuevo sol is the decline of Peruvian foreign reserves to inadequate levels. However, Peru’s foreign reserves at December 31, 2009, were $33.1 billion as compared to $31.2 billion and $27.7 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We cannot assure that Peru will be able to maintain adequate foreign reserves to meet its foreign currency denominated obligations or that Peru will not devalue its currency should its foreign reserves decline. Mexican inflation, restrictive exchange control policies and fluctuations in the peso exchange rate may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Although all of our Mexican operations’ sales of metals are priced and invoiced in U.S. dollars, a substantial portion of our Mexican operations’ cost of sales are denominated in pesos. Accordingly, when inflation in Mexico increases without a corresponding devaluation of the peso, as it did in 2000, 2001 and 2002, the net income generated by our Mexican operations is adversely affected. The annual inflation rate in Mexico was 3.6% in 2009, 6.5% in 2008 and 3.8% in 2007. The Bank of Mexico has publicly announced a target of 5% inflation for 2010. At the same time, the peso has been subject in the past to significant devaluation, which may not have been proportionate to the inflation rate and may not be proportionate to the inflation rate in the future. The value of the peso increased by 3.5% in 2009, decreased by 24.5% in 2008 and increased by 0.1% in 2007. While the Mexican government does not currently restrict the ability of Mexican companies or individuals to convert pesos into dollars or other currencies, in the future, the Mexican government could impose a restrictive exchange control policy, as it has done in the past. We cannot assure you that the Mexican government will maintain its current policies with regard to the peso or that the peso’s value will not fluctuate significantly in the future. The imposition of such exchange control policies could impair Minera Mexico’s ability to obtain imported goods and to meet its U.S. dollar-denominated obligations and could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. 29 Table of Contents Developments in other emerging market countries and in the United States may adversely affect the prices of our Common Stock and our debt securities. The market value of securities of companies with significant operations in Peru and Mexico is, to varying degrees, affected by economic and market conditions in other emerging market countries. Although economic conditions in such countries may differ significantly from economic conditions in Peru or Mexico, as the case may be, investors’ reactions to developments in any of these other countries may have an adverse effect on the market value or trading price of the securities, including debt securities, of issuers that have significant operations in Peru or Mexico. In addition, in recent years economic conditions in Mexico have increasingly become correlated to U.S. economic conditions. Therefore, adverse economic conditions in the United States could also have a significant adverse effect on Mexican economic conditions, including the price of our Common Stock or debt securities. We cannot assure you that the market value or trading prices of our Common Stock and debt securities, will not be adversely affected by events in the United States or elsewhere, including in emerging market countries. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 30 Table of Contents 