Item 1A Risk Factors Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2 Properties Item 3 Legal Proceedings Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6 Selected Financial Data Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A (T) Controls and Procedures Item 9B Other Information PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Item 11 Executive Compensation Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence PART IV Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules Signatures All financial amounts are in thousands except share and per share data. Table of Contents NOTE REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7, contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, as well as assumptions that, if they never materialize or prove incorrect, could cause the results of MGT Capital Investments, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries (the “Company”) to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including any projections of revenue, gross margin, expenses, earnings or losses from operations, synergies or other financial items; any statements of the plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations, including the rate of market development and acceptance of medical imaging technology; the execution of restructuring plans; any statement concerning developments, performance or industry rankings relating to products or services; any statements regarding future economic conditions or performance; any statements of expectation or belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. The risks, uncertainties and assumptions referred to above include the performance of contracts by suppliers, customers and partners; employee management issues; the difficulty of aligning expense levels with revenue changes; and other risks that are described herein, including but not limited to the specific risks areas discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 of this report, and that are otherwise described from time to time in the Company’s periodic disclosure statements and for reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements. The Company’s main operating currency is UK sterling (£). 1 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1 BUSINESS MGT Capital Investments, Inc (“MGT”, “we”, “us”, “the Group”, “the Company”) is a holding company. We currently have a controlling interest in our two main operating subsidiaries: Medicsight plc (“Medicsight”) and Medicexchange Limited (“Medicexchange”). We also have wholly owned subsidiaries MGT Capital Investments (UK) Limited, MGT Investments (Gibraltar) Limited, Medicexchange Inc. and Medicsight Nominees Limited. · Medicsight and its wholly owned subsidiaries is a medical imaging software development company listed on the AIM Market of the London Stock Exchange (Ticker symbol “MDST”) that develops and commercializes enterprise-wide Computer-Aided Detection (“CAD”) applications which analyze Computer Tomography (“CT”) scans to assist radiologists in the early detection and measurement of colorectal polyps and lung lesions. Medicsight currently has limited revenue and is awaiting regulatory approvals in key markets. The Company holds 86 million shares (55%) of the 155 million issued share capital of Medicsight. · Medicexchange and its majority owned subsidiaries provide medical imaging professionals with a global web portal containing an online sales channel for diagnostic, treatment and surgery planning solutions. This combined with a variety of relevant clinical papers, training materials and content gives these medical imaging professionals access to information and products that they otherwise would have difficulty accessing. The Company holds 22.5 million shares (73%) of the 30.8 million issued share capital of Medicexchange. Medicexchange’s shares are not publicly traded. · MGT and its subsidiaries also hold various other investments. The Company has a 49% holding in Moneygate Group Limited, a UK based firm of Independent Financial Advisors, and equity investments in XShares Group LLC, HipCricket Inc. and Eurindia Limited. Medicsight Medicsight plc is an industry leader in the development of Computer-Aided Detection and image analysis software to assist radiologists in the early detection and diagnosis of disease. The Company’s focus continues to be on developing CAD software applications and related technologies that help clinicians analyze medical images generated from CT scanners for the early detection of potential colonic polyps. Product development ColonCAD Medicsight’s core technology is the proprietary ColonCAD™ algorithm that is integrated (using application protocol interface (“API”) technology) into visualisation workstations for radiologists to use when reviewing a patient’s colon CT scan data. The CAD algorithm assists the radiologist as they search for polyps in the CT scan image data. The radiologist uses the visualisation software to review the patient’s CT scan images on the screen and search for polyps (potentially pre-cancerous lesions on the wall of the colon). After a full review the radiologist then activates the Medicsight ColonCAD™ software - which immediately displays “CAD marks” on the images, drawing the radiologist’s attention to potential polyps. The radiologist then assesses each marked region in order to make the final decision as to the presence or absence of a polyp. Clinical studies have demonstrated that radiologists assisted by Medicsight’s ColonCAD™ technology have a significantly higher sensitivity for the detection of patients with polyps in CT colonography compared to unassisted reading (i.e. traditional reading without the use of ColonCAD™). Medicsight completed work on ColonCAD 4.0 and formally launched this product at the European Congress of Radiology in March 2009. This new release significantly reduces the number of false-positive CAD marks presented to a radiologist reviewing a patient data set. This should lead to further improvements in reader performance when assisted by the ColonCAD™ software. We believe that this version of ColonCAD™ extends Medicsight’s position as a provider of one of the world’s leading colon CAD software solutions. Medicsight’s ColonCAD™ has been developed and validated using a large database of CT scans from hospitals around the world and has been assessed in many clinical studies, the results of which have been published in peer-reviewed publications and presented at leading radiology conferences. 2 Table of Contents MedicRead The MedicRead product is Medicsight’s advanced visualisation software application for CT colonography. The latest version of this product (version 3.0) was launched in June 2009 and featured improved workflow flexibility, enhanced 3D visualisation options, as well as providing state-of-the-art CAD functionality though its integration with the new ColonCAD 4.0 product. MedicRead is a flexible option for hospitals and clinics unable to invest large capital sums in new image analysis infrastructure. MedicRead can be deployed either on a standalone basis or integrated into an existing clinical IT infrastructure (e.g. a PACS environment). MedicCO2LON In addition to the computer aided detection software applications, Medicsight have developed an automated carbon dioxide (CO2) insufflation device called MedicCO2LON. Each patient that has a CT colon scan requires their colon to be insufflated (distended) with either CO2gas or room air administered prior to the acquisition of their CT colonography images. MedicCO2LON is designed to provide good quality insufflation, which is essential for the acquisition of high quality images from the CT colonography examination. Longer term projects Some longer term colon related opportunities that we continue to research include: · Flat lesions (which are non-protruding lesions in the Colon) have recently received much clinical interest. The Medicsight team are researching CAD technology for the detection of these flat lesions to compliment the existing ColonCAD application. · Optical endoscopy - working with leading London academic and clinical centres, Medicsight is researching the use of CAD and other image analysis technologies in the field of optical endoscopy, with a view to these technologies combining information in real time (i.e. as a clinician examines a patient) from sources of patient data. Intellectual Property Medicsight continues to develop its intellectual property portfolio to protect the core technology in its CAD and other products. During 2009 patents were granted in the UK and US covering aspects of Medicsight CAD algorithms (for both Colon and Lung) as well as image processing methods related to the identification of the boundary of lesions. Regulatory approvals and submissions US Food and Drug Administration clearance In November 2008 Medicsight submitted the ColonCAD™ 510(k) application to the Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) for clearance in the USA. In December 2008 we received an Additional Information (“AI”) letter from the FDA and submitted our response to the FDA’s enquires in March 2009. During the summer of 2009 we had a number of informal meetings and discussions with the FDA as they performed their review of our 510(k) submission. On January 5, 2010 we received our second Additional Information (“AI”) letter from the FDA, in which the FDA has requested further technical details regarding the clinical trials and data analyses undertaken in our 510(k) submission - which the Company will respond to before the deadline of June 21, 2010. In February 2010 we received European CE approval for our MedicCO2LON insufflator product. 3 Table of Contents Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare In November 2007 we submitted our MedicRead Colon application to the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare (“MHLW”) regulatory authorities in Japan. During 2008 and 2009 we attended a number of meetings with ministry officials, demonstrated the product, answered specific questions regarding the product application and formally responded to questions from the MHLW. Other regulatory territories In 2009 version 4.0 of the Medicsight ColonCAD API and MedicRead 3.0 (our visualization workstation which includes version 4.0 of the Medicsight ColonCAD API) received European (CE) approval, Australian approval and Canadian approval. In November 2009 we submitted MedicRead 3.0 to the Chinese State Food and Drug Administration (“SFDA”) for approval. Clinical Activity Medicsight’s Clinical Development team continued their work supported by a network of global medical luminaries. European Medical Advisory Board meetings were held in January and June 2009 to take advice from clinical experts regarding the continuing development of Medicsight’s product roadmap and clinical research program. Close collaboration continued with leading Virtual Colonoscopy radiologists - including Professor Perry Pickhardt and Dr. David Kim from the University of Wisconsin Medical School who completed a large research study to evaluate the performance of ColonCAD™ 4.0. In this study, the performance of Medicsight’s version 4.0 ColonCAD was compared to the sensitivity of experienced radiologists for the ability to detect colorectal polyps on CT colonography image datasets. The study assessed the CAD’s performance across more than 3,000 patients who had undergone CTC screening for colorectal cancer. The Medicsight CAD correctly identified (a) 94% of patients who had a polyp that was 6mm or larger; and (b) 96.5% of patients who had a polyp 10mm or larger in size. (The CAD’s performance at the 10mm or larger threshold is particularly important as polyps in this size range are considered to be significant findings that require further investigation by optical colonoscopy). In the study, 96% of all individual polyps 10 mm or larger were detected by the Medicsight CAD system. Significantly, the Medicsight CAD detected 15 polyps 6mm or larger that were missed by the experienced radiologists in their unassisted review of the patient data — four of which were clinically significant at larger than 10mm in size. This study provides clear evidence-based outcomes - demonstrating the added value of Medicsight’s ColonCAD application to the clinician. The results of this CAD study, the largest of its kind to date, were presented at the 10th International Symposium on Virtual Colonoscopy in Reston, Virginia in October 2009. A scientific paper on the study is currently undergoing peer-review with a leading journal with publication expected in 2010. Scientific presentations of Medicsight’s CAD research were also made at the annual European Congress of Radiology (held in Vienna during March 2009), at the 20th Annual Meeting of the European Society of Gastrointestinal and Abdominal Radiology “ESGAR” (Valencia, Spain, June 2009) and the annual Radiological Society of North America “RSNA” conference (Chicago, USA, December 2009). CAD research focused on investigating the impact of CAD on radiologist readers when interpreting CT colonography images. In addition to the University of Wisconsin study, the results of research undertaken at University College Hospital, London and the Japanese National Cancer Centre in Tokyo demonstrated the positive benefit of ColonCAD in improving reader performance. Medicsight continued to support of a number of international CT colonography training workshops, including those delivered by leading US proponents of CT colonography, Professor Perry Pickhardt (University of Wisconsin Medical School) and Judy Yee, MD 4 Table of Contents (Associate Professor and Vice Chair of Radiology at the University of California, San Francisco). Medicsight again supported the bi-annual ESGAR CTC training workshops; held in Harrogate (UK) and Stresa (Italy) during 2009. These workshops train radiologists to interpret CTC images using the latest visualization and CAD technology and are fundamental to the increasing acceptance and implementation of CT colonography and CAD as a routine imaging examination for investigation of the colon. Commercial progress Medicsight’s primary route to market is via partnerships with global advance visualization companies, PACS suppliers and other OEM’s. In June 2009, Medicsight signed a global partnership agreement with Alma IT Systems of Spain for the integration of Medicsight ColonCAD™ API within Alma Colon, Alma’s latest 3D visualization colon workstation. This partnership agreement is in addition to our existing agreements with Vital Images Inc., TeraRecon Inc., Viatronix Inc. and Toshiba Medical Visualization Systems (previously Barco NV), Infinitt, Ziosoft Inc., and Intrasense SAS. In January 2010 we signed a global distribution agreement for MedicCO2LON with MEDRAD Inc. The product was CE marked in February 2010 and is to be launched in Europe in 2010. Approval for additional territories will commence in 2010. Revenue and Growth Strategy Revenues remain limited and have fallen as a result of reduced foreign exchange rates — Medicsight recorded $180 in 2009 compared to $191 in 2008. Medicsight ended 2009 with net assets of $16,608 including $17,058 of cash and short term deposits. At various points during the year we have invested our surplus cash in highly liquid, blue chip marketable securities and foreign currencies. At December 31, 2009 all of our liquid assets were held as short term cash balances, mainly in sterling. Post year end, we continue to hold our surplus cash on short term deposit. In early 2009 and again at the end of the year the board completed a review of the product development roadmap, the status of regulatory approvals and partner integration activities, and initiated cost restructuring programs to drive cashflow savings without jeopardizing longer term plans. In addition we expect revenue to be higher this year as European license sales increase and we start the commercialization of our MedicCO2LON insufflation device. We await further news on our US and Japanese regulatory approvals and timescales for them to contribute to revenues. Competition The Company’s competitors can be divided into two categories: (a) multidetector computed tomography scanner manufacturers such as GE, Hitachi, Philips, Siemens and Toshiba; and (b) independent CAD software providers. A number of MDCT manufacturers offer CAD solutions that are available in European markets, however currently the only FDA approved CAD is Siemens Lung CAD. In the CAD vendor market, there are a number of small, independent software providers, which include: · im3D (Italy) — have developed a Colon CAD product that is CE certified but not FDA cleared; · Median Technologies (France) — have developed a Colon CAD product and a Lung CAD (CAD-lung) — both have CE approval but not FDA clearance; · Mevis Medical Solutions AG (Germany) — have a Lung CAD product that is FDA approved; and · iCAD Inc. (USA) — have developed a Colon CAD product which is CE approved and have submitted to the FDA for approval. · Cadens Imaging (Canada) — have also developed a Colon CAD product which is CE approved and has been submitted to the FDA for approval. Patents and Trademarks Protection of our proprietary technology and our rights over that technology, from copy or unchallenged and improper use, is 5 Table of Contents essential to our future success. Any challenges to, or disputes concerning, our core technology may result in great expense to us, delays in bringing products to market and disruption of our focus on our core activities. They may also result in loss of rights over our technology or the right to operate in particular markets due to adverse legal decisions against us. Medicsight has filed patent applications in the United Kingdom, the United States, the European Patent Office, Japan, South Korea, Australia, Canada, and under the International Patent Cooperation Treaty (which currently has 128 member countries) covering our core technologies and their applications. We have recently filed new patent applications covering technology of both Medicsight CAD and intend to continue filing new applications in the future. Two patents have been granted in the US covering aspects of Medicsight CAD technology. Although prior art searches have been carried out, we cannot provide assurance that any or all of the pending patents will be granted or that they will not be challenged, or that rights granted to us will actually provide us with advantage over our competitors. Medicsight actively reviews third party patents and is not currently aware of any that our products will infringe. “Medicsight” ® , “Medicsight Colon Screen” ® , “Medicsight Lung Screen” ® , “Medicsight Colon CAR” ® , “Medicsight Lung CAR” ® , “Medicsight Computer Assisted Reader” ® , “Medicsight See More, Save More” ® and “Lung CAR” ® have been registered as trademarks in the United Kingdom. “Medicsight” ® has also been registered in the United States, the European Union, Australia, China and a number of other countries. “MedicRead” ® has been registered as a trademark in the European Union. These trademarks are important to the corporate identity in connection with Medicsight CAD. Failure to register appropriate patents, copyrights or trademarks in any jurisdiction may impede our ability to create brand awareness in our products, result in expenses in pursuing our rights with respect to our intellectual property, or result in lost revenues due to intellectual property disputes. Where we may be required to purchase licenses from sellers with prior rights in any country, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so at a commercially acceptable cost. Medicsight’s admission to the AIM Market of the London Stock Exchange On June 21, 2007, Medicsight completed its initial public offering on the AIM Market of the London Stock Exchange. 29 million new shares were issued to institutional and other investors at a price of £1.10 ($2.20) per share raising £32,000 ($64,115) gross new money. Medicsight incurred fees of £1,550 ($3,096), including fees of $298 with Asia IT Capital Investments Ltd (a related party). £5,500 ($11,100) of the net proceeds were used to repay debt (between Medicsight and the Company). Immediately prior to the Medicsight IPO the Company sold down, by private placement, 11.7 million of its Medicsight plc shares. The shares were priced at £1.10 ($2.20) — the same price as the Medicsight IPO. Gross proceeds on the private placement were £12,845 ($25,736). We incurred fees with Asia IT Capital Investments Ltd (a related party) of £578 ($1,167). These proceeds were received on July 27, 2007. After the Company’s private placement and the Medicsight IPO, the Company held 85 million of the 155 million issued share capital of Medicsight. Since the IPO the Company bought back 1 million of Medicsight’s shares bringing our holding to 86 million shares, which is 55% of the outstanding share capital of Medicsight. Medicexchange Limited Medicexchange is a global imaging portal focusing on the medical vision sector through its website Medicexchange.com. In the year, Medicexchange disposed of its Chinese website business. Medicexchange has endeavored to build traffic and registered users, predominantly from North America. Whilst user numbers have been increasing, revenue generation has not been forthcoming due to tightening of corporate advertising budgets and the general global economic conditions. We are currently reviewing options for the Medicexchange business. Other investments We hold other investments. In Fiscal 2009 we invested in Moneygate Group Limited (“Moneygate”), a UK based Independent Financial Advisor, acquiring 49% of the business. We account for our investment in Moneygate as an equity method investment. We have also advanced a working capital facility as well as a longer term loan to allow the business to grow through acquisition. As well as holding equity in XShares LLC we have also, in Fiscal 2009, have issued convertible loan notes to XShares. We also have holdings in Hipcricket Inc. and Eurindia Limited. 6 Table of Contents During the Fiscal 2009 we reviewed the value of our holdings in Eurindia Limited and XShares LLC and decided to fully impair the investments and convertible loan notes. Employees strategy As of December 31, 2009 the Company and its subsidiaries had 62 employees, all of whom were full-time employees. Our employees are not part of a union. Financial Information Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements provides information on the Company’s segment reporting. General MGT was originally incorporated as a Utah corporation in 1977 and was re-incorporated in Delaware in 2000. At December 31, 2009 the Company’s authorized share capital was 75,000,000 shares of common stock, par value of $0.001. In January 2007 the Company changed its name from Medicsight Inc. to MGT Capital Investments, Inc. At March 26, 2009, 38,900,383 shares of our common stock had been issued and 32,550,590 were outstanding. Our principal executive office is located at Kensington Centre, 66 Hammersmith Road, London W14 8UD, United Kingdom, telephone 011-44-207-605-1151, facsimile 011-44-207-605-1171. Our web address is www.mgtci.com. Information on our website is not included as a part of this Annual Report. Available information We will provide, upon request and free of charge, paper copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, including any amendments to the foregoing reports, as soon as is reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. These materials along with our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics are also available through our corporate website at www.mgtci.com. A copy of this annual report on Form 10-K is located at the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The public may also download these materials from the Securities and Exchange Commission’s website at http://www.sec.gov. Any amendments to, and waivers of, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics will be posted on our corporate website. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Discussion of our business and operations included in this annual report on Form 10-K should be read together with the risk factors set forth below. They describe various risks and uncertainties to which we are or may become subject. These risks and uncertainties, together with other factors described elsewhere in this report, have the potential to affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies or prospects in a material and adverse manner. New risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our financial performance. Each of the risks described below could adversely impact the value of our securities. These statements, like all statements in this report, speak only as of the date of this report (unless another date is indicated), and we undertake no obligation to update or revise the statements in light of future developments. We cannot assure you that the Company will be successful in commercializing any of the Company’s products and, in particular, the Medicsight products or the Medicexchange portal, or if any of the products or the portal are commercialized, that they will prove to be profitable for the Company. The Company has only had a limited operating history and has just commenced generating revenue from operations upon which an evaluation of its prospects can be made. The Company’s prospects must be considered keeping in mind the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered in the establishment of a new business in a constantly changing industry. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to achieve profitable operations in the foreseeable future if at all. 7 Table of Contents The Company has identified a number of specific risk areas that may affect the Company’s operations and results in the future: Company specific risks We may be unable to develop our existing or future technology. Our Medicsight CAD system may not deliver the levels of accuracy and reliability needed to make it a successful product in the market place. Additionally, the development of such accuracy and reliability may be indefinitely delayed or may never be achieved. Failure to develop this or other technology could have an adverse material effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. The market for our technology may be slow to develop, if at all. The market for the Medicsight CAD products and Medicexchange.com may be slower to develop or smaller than estimated or it may be more difficult to build the market than anticipated. The medical community may resist Medicsight CAD and the Medicexchange.com products or be slower to accept them than we anticipate. Revenues from Medicsight CAD and Medicexchange.com may be delayed or costs may be higher than anticipated which may result in the Company requiring additional funding. Medicsight’s principal route to market is via commercial distribution partners. These arrangements are generally non-exclusive and have no guaranteed sales volumes or commitments. The partners may be slower to sell our products than anticipated. Any financial, operational or regulatory risks that affect our partners could also affect the sales of our products. In the current economic environment, hospitals and clinical purchasing budgets that are reliant on external debt finance may result in purchasing decisions being delayed. If any of these situations were to occur this could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. We may be slow to receive required regulatory approvals from respective government regulators, if we receive them at all. The Medicsight CAD system is subject to regulatory requirements in the USA, Europe, Japan, China and our other targeted markets. Necessary regulatory approvals may not be obtained or may be delayed. We may incur substantial additional cost in obtaining regulatory approvals for our products in our targeted markets. Any delays in obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals increase the risk that our competitors’ products are approved before our own. The failure to obtain these approvals on a timely basis and/or the associated costs could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. The medical imaging market we operate in is highly competitive. There are a number of groups and organizations, such as software companies in the medical imaging field, MDCT scanner manufacturers, screening companies and other healthcare providers that may develop a competitive offering to the Medicsight CAD products and Medicexchange.com. In addition, these competitors may have significantly greater resources than MGT. We cannot make any assurance that they will not attempt to develop such offerings, that they will not be successful in developing such offerings or that any offerings they may develop will not have a competitive edge over Medicsight CAD products and Medicexchange.com. With delayed regulatory approvals and/or disputed clinical claims we may not have a commercial or clinical advantage over competitors’ products. Should a superior offering come to market, this could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. We are a developing company with limited revenues from operations. We have incurred significant operating losses since inception and have only recently commenced generating revenues from operations. As a result, we have generated negative cash flows from operations and have an accumulated deficit as of December 31, 2009. We are operating in a developing industry based on new technology and our primary source of funds to date has been through the issuance of securities and borrowed funds. There can be no assurance that management’s efforts will be successful or that the products we develop and market will be accepted by consumers. If our products are ultimately unsuccessful in the market, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. We face financial risks as we are a developing company We have incurred significant operating losses since inception and have limited revenue from operations. As a result, we have generated negative cash flows from operations and our cash balances continue to reduce. While we are optimistic and believe appropriate actions are being taken to mitigate this, there can be no assurance that attempts to reduce cash outflows will be successful and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations. 8 Table of Contents Our current corporate structure may place us in an unfavorable market position vis-à-vis our competitors. MGT’s corporate structure may make it more difficult or costly to take certain actions. We conduct our business through: (a) Medicsight, a UK public company which is 55% owned by the MGT Capital Investments, Inc. and through Medicsight’s subsidiaries in the United Kingdom, the USA, Japan and Gibraltar; and (b) the Medicexchange subsidiaries, in which MGT’s holdings range between 75% and 100%. Although MGT, Medicsight and Medicexchange share some directors and management, they are required to comply with corporate governance and other laws and rules applicable to public companies in the United Kingdom and the USA. Should MGT propose to take any action, such as a transfer or allocation of assets or liabilities between MGT and its subsidiaries, MGT would have to take into consideration the potentially conflicting interests of MGT’s stockholders and the non-controlling stockholders. This may deter MGT from taking such actions that might otherwise be in the best interest of MGT or cause MGT to incur additional costs in taking such actions. The subsidiary companies would not be able to pay dividends or make other distributions of profits or assets to MGT without making pro-rata payments or distributions to the respective non-controlling stockholders. Although neither the subsidiary companies nor MGT has plans to pay dividends or make distributions to its shareholders, MGT’s corporate structure may deter its subsidiaries from doing so in the future. If at any point we are ultimately unable to resolve any of these conflicts, this could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. The protection of our intellectual property may be uncertain, and we may face possible claims of others. Although we have received patents and have filed patent applications with respect to certain aspects of our technology, we generally do not rely on patent protection with respect to our products and technologies. Instead, we rely primarily on a combination of trade secret and copyright law, employee and third-party non-disclosure agreements and other protective measures to protect intellectual property rights pertaining to our products and technologies. Such measures may not provide meaningful protection of our trade secrets, know-how or other intellectual property in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure. Others may independently develop similar technologies or duplicate our technologies. In addition, to the extent that we apply for any patents, such applications may not result in issued patents or, if issued, such patents may not be valid or of value. Third parties could, in the future, assert infringement or misappropriation claims against us with respect to our current or future products and technologies, or we may need to assert claims of infringement against third parties. Any infringement or misappropriation claim by us or against us could place significant strain on our financial resources, divert management’s attention from our business and harm our reputation. The costs of prosecuting or defending an intellectual property claim could be substantial and could adversely affect our business, even if we are ultimately successful in prosecuting or defending any such claims. If our products or technologies are found to infringe the rights of a third party, we could be required to pay significant damages or license fees or cease production, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If a claim is brought against us, or we ultimately prove unsuccessful on the claims on our merits, this could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. We may fail to attract and retain qualified personnel. We expect to rapidly expand our operations and grow our sales, research and development and administrative operations. This expansion is expected to place a significant strain on our management and will require hiring a significant number of qualified personnel. Accordingly, recruiting and retaining such personnel in the future will be critical to our success. There is intense competition from other companies, research and academic institutions, government entities and other organizations for qualified personnel in the areas of our activities. If we fail to identify, attract, retain and motivate these highly skilled personnel, we may be unable to continue our marketing and development activities, and this could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. If we do not effectively manage changes in our business, these changes could place a significant strain on our management and operations. Our ability to grow successfully requires an effective planning and management process. The expansion and growth of our business could place a significant strain on our management systems, infrastructure and other resources. To manage our growth successfully, we must continue to improve and expand our systems and infrastructure in a timely and efficient manner. Our controls, systems, procedures and resources may not be adequate to support a changing and growing company. If our management fails to respond effectively to changes and growth in our business, including acquisitions, this could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. We face risks arising from foreign currency exchange. As our main operating currency is UK sterling and its financial statements are reported in US dollars, MGT’s assets and liabilities and results of operations are affected by movements in the $:£ exchange rate. Should there be large or unexpected fluctuations in the $:£ exchange rate, this could have a material effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of 9 Table of Contents operations and future prospects. We currently do not engage in hedging activities to minimize the effect of adverse movements in the exchange rate. We may not be able to quickly realize our investments and receivables at the value at which we have recorded them. We have a number of investments and receivables held at both at market value and at cost. There is a risk that we may not be able to swiftly realize these investments and receivables at the fair value or cost at which they are recorded in the financial statements. If we are unable to quickly realize these investments and receivables at prices we believe to be fair, this could have a material effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. General market risks We may not be able to access credit. We face the risk that we may not be able to access credit, either from lenders or suppliers, or have facilities reduced or terminated. Failure to access credit from any of these sources could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Recent global economic trends could adversely affect our business, liquidity and financial results. Recent global economic conditions, including disruption of financial markets, could adversely affect us, primarily through limiting our access to capital and disrupting our clients’ businesses. In addition, continuation or worsening of general market conditions in economies important to our businesses may adversely affect our clients’ level of spending and ability to obtain financing, leading to us being unable to generate the levels of sales that we require. Current and continued disruption of financial markets could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. We may not be able to maintain effective internal controls. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal accounting controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could cause us to face regulatory action and also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, either of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 