Item 1A. Risk Factors Demand for capital equipment is cyclical, which subjects our business to long periods of depressed revenues interspersed with periods of unusually high revenues. Our Equipment business sells equipment to capital-intensive industries, which sell commodity products such as disk drives and semiconductors. When demand for these commodity products exceeds capacity, demand for new capital equipment such as ours tends to be amplified. Conversely, when supply of these commodity products exceeds demand, the demand for new capital equipment such as ours tends to be depressed. For example, the hard disk drive industry has been historically subject to multi-year cycles because of the long lead times and high costs involved in adding capacity, and to seasonal cycles driven by consumer purchasing patterns, which tend to be heaviest in the third and fourth quarters of each year. The cyclical nature of the capital equipment industry means that in some years we will have unusually high sales of new systems, and that in other years our sales of new systems will be severely depressed. The timing, length and volatility of these cycles are difficult to predict. These cycles have affected the timing and amounts of our customers’ capital equipment purchases and investments in new technology. For example, sales of systems for magnetic disk production were severely depressed from mid-1998 until mid-2003 and grew rapidly from 2004 through 2006. The number of new systems delivered or scheduled for delivery in the second half of 2007 was significantly lower than the number of systems delivered in the first half of the year, and we are projecting that new system shipments will be significantly lower in 2008 than 2007. We cannot predict with any certainty when these cycles will begin or end. If demand for hard disk drives does not continue to grow and our customers do not replace or upgrade their installed base of disk sputtering systems, then future sales of our disk sputtering systems will suffer. From mid-1998 until mid-2003, there was very little demand for new disk sputtering systems, as magnetic disk manufacturers were burdened with over-capacity and were not investing in new disk sputtering equipment. By 2003, however, over-capacity had diminished, and orders for our 200 Lean began to increase. From 2004 through the end of 2006, there was strong demand for new disk sputtering systems. Sales of our equipment for capacity expansions are dependent on the capacity expansion plans of our customers and upon whether our customers select our equipment for their capacity expansions. We have no control over our customers’ expansion plans, and we cannot be sure that they will select our equipment if they do expand their capacity. Our customers may not implement capacity expansion plans, or we may fail to win orders for equipment for those capacity expansions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and our operating results. In addition, some manufacturers may choose to purchase used systems from other manufacturers or customers rather than purchasing new systems from us. Sales of our 200 Lean disk sputtering systems are also dependent on obsolescence and replacement of the installed base of disk sputtering equipment. If technological advancements are developed that extend the useful life of the installed base of systems, then sales of our 200 Lean will be limited to the capacity expansion needs of our customers, which would significantly decrease our revenue. For example, during 2007 some of our customers decided to use legacy systems for the production of first generation perpendicular media, which delayed the replacement of such legacy systems with new 200 Lean systems. Our customers have experienced competition from companies that produce alternative storage technologies like flash memory, where increased capacity, improving cost, lower power consumption and performance ruggedness have resulted in competition with lower capacity, smaller form factor disk drives in handheld applications. While this competition has traditionally been in the markets for handheld consumer electronics applications like personal media players, these competitors have recently announced products for notebook and enterprise computer applications. If alternative technologies, such as flash memory, replace hard disk drives as a primary method of digital storage, then demand for our products would likely decrease. We are exposed to risks associated with a highly concentrated customer base. Historically, a significant portion of our revenue in any particular period has been attributable to sales of our disk sputtering systems to a limited number of customers. In 2007, one of our customers accounted for 31% of our 11 Table of Contents revenues, and four customers in the aggregate accounted for 90% of our revenues. The same four customers, in the aggregate, accounted for 31% of our net accounts receivable at December 31, 2007. During 2006, Seagate acquired Maxtor, and in June 2007, Western Digital announced the acquisition of Komag. This consolidation in the industry limits the number of potential customers for our products. Orders from a relatively limited number of magnetic disk manufacturers have accounted for, and likely will continue to account for, a substantial portion of our revenues. The loss of, or delays in purchasing by, any one of our large customers would significantly reduce potential future revenues. In addition, the concentration of our customer base may enable customers to demand pricing and other terms unfavorable to us, and makes us more vulnerable to any changes in demand by a given customer. Furthermore, the concentration of customers can lead to extreme variability in revenue and financial results from period to period. For example, during 2007 revenues ranged between $76.4 million in the first quarter and $16.8 million in the fourth quarter. Our operating results fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, which may cause the price of our stock to decline. Over the last eight quarters, our revenues per quarter have fluctuated between $16.8 million and $95.9 million. Over the same period our operating income (loss) as a percentage of revenues has fluctuated between approximately 23% and (42%) of revenues. We anticipate that our revenues and operating margins will continue to fluctuate. We expect this fluctuation to continue for a variety of reasons, including: • changes in the demand, due to seasonality, cyclicality and other factors in the markets, for computer systems, storage subsystems and consumer electronics containing disks our customers produce with our systems; • delays or problems in the introduction and acceptance of our new products, or delivery of existing products; • timing of orders, acceptance of new systems by our customers or cancellation of those orders; and • new products, services or technological innovations by our competitors or us. Additionally, because our systems are priced in the millions of dollars and we sell a relatively small number of systems, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenues and operating results may not be an accurate indicator of our future performance. Our operating results in one or more future quarters may fail to meet the expectations of investment research analysts or investors, which could cause an immediate and significant decline in the trading price of our common shares. Our long-term revenue growth is dependent on new products. If these new products are not successful, then our results of operations will be adversely affected. We have invested heavily, and continue to invest, in the development of new products, especially our new Lean Etch system. Our success in developing and selling new products depends upon a variety of factors, including our ability to predict future customer requirements accurately, technological advances, total cost of ownership of our systems, our introduction of new products on schedule, our ability to manufacture our products cost-effectively and the performance of our products in the field. Our new product decisions and development commitments must anticipate continuously evolving industry requirements significantly in advance of sales. The majority of our revenues in both fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006 were from sales of our 200 Lean disk sputtering system and related parts and services. The 200 Lean was first delivered in December 2003. When first introduced, advanced vacuum manufacturing equipment, such as the 200 Lean, is subject to extensive customer acceptance tests after installation at the customer’s factory. These acceptance tests are designed to validate reliable operation to specifications in areas such as throughput, vacuum level, robotics, process performance and software features and functionality. These tests are generally more comprehensive for new systems than for mature systems, and are designed to highlight problems encountered with early versions of the equipment. For example, initial builds of the 200 Lean experienced high production and warranty costs in comparison to our more established product lines. Failure to promptly address any of the problems uncovered in these tests could have adverse effects on our business, including rescheduling of backlog, failure to achieve customer acceptance and therefore revenue recognition as anticipated, unanticipated product rework and warranty costs, penalties for non-performance, cancellation of orders, or return of products for credit. 12 Table of Contents We are making a substantial investment to develop our new Lean Etch system for semiconductor manufacturing. We spent a substantial portion of our research and development costs on this new product in 2006 and increased our level of spending on this project in 2007. We may experience problems with the Lean Etch similar to the startup problems encountered with the 200 Lean. Moreover, we have not developed or sold products for this market previously. Failure to correctly assess the size of the market, to successfully develop a cost effective product to address the market, or to establish effective sales and support of the new product would have a material adverse effect on our future revenues and profits, and could include loss of our entire investment in the project. We are jointly developing a next generation head mounted night-vision system with another defense contractor. This system is planned for sale to the U.S. military and will compete with head-mounted systems developed by our competitors. The U.S. military does not intend to initiate production of this system until 2011. We plan to make a significant investment in this type of product and cannot be assured when, or if, we will be awarded any production contracts for these night vision systems. We have developed a night-vision sensor and camera module for use in a NATO customer’s digital rifle-sight system. We cannot guarantee that we will achieve the yield improvements and cost reductions necessary for this program to be successful. Shipments under this program are subject to export approval by the U.S. government. Products based on our LIVAR target identification and low light level camera technologies are designed to offer significantly improved capability to military customers. We are also developing commercial products in our Imaging Instrumentation business. None of our Imaging Instrumentation products are currently being manufactured in high volume, and we may encounter unforeseen difficulties when we commence volume production of these products. Our Imaging Instrumentation business will require substantial further investment in sales and marketing, in product development and in additional production facilities in order to expand our operations. We may not succeed in these activities or generate significant sales of these new products. In 2007, sales of our Imaging Instrumentation products were $5.2 million out of a total of $19.1 million of Imaging Instrumentation revenues. Failure of any of these new products to perform as intended, to penetrate their markets and develop into profitable product lines or to achieve their production cost objectives would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our sales cycle is long and unpredictable, which requires us to incur high sales and marketing expenses with no assurance that a sale will result. The sales cycle for our Equipment systems can be a year or longer, involving individuals from many different areas of our company and numerous product presentations and demonstrations for our prospective customers. Our sales process for these systems also commonly includes production of samples, customization of our product and installation of evaluation systems in the factories of our prospective customers. We do not enter into long-term contracts with our customers, and therefore until an order is actually submitted by a customer there is no binding commitment to purchase our systems. Our Imaging Instrumentation business is also subject to long sales cycles because many of our products, such as our LIVAR system, often must be designed into our customers’ products, which are often complex state-of-the-art products. These development cycles are often multi-year, and our sales are contingent on our customers successfully integrating our product into their product, completing development of their product and then obtaining production orders for their product from the U.S. government or its allies. As a result, we may not recognize revenue from our products for extended periods of time after we have completed development and made initial shipments of our products, during which time we may expend substantial funds and management time and effort with no assurance that a sale will result. We operate in an intensely competitive marketplace, and our competitors have greater resources than we do. In the market for our disk sputtering systems, we have experienced competition from competitors such as Anelva Corporation, which is a subsidiary of Canon, and Oerlikon, each of which has sold substantial numbers of systems worldwide. In the market for semiconductor equipment, we expect to experience competition from competitors such 13 Table of Contents as Applied Materials, LAM Research and Tokyo Electron, Ltd. In the market for our military Imaging Instrumentation products, we experience competition from companies such as ITT Industries, Inc., Northrop Grumman Corporation and BAE. In the markets for our commercial Imaging Instrumentation products, we compete with companies such as Andor, E2V, Hamamatsu, Texas Instruments and Roper Scientific for sensor and camera products, and with companies such as Ahura, B&W Tek, Horiba — Jobin Yvon, InPhotonics, Ocean Optics, Renishaw, and Smiths Detection for portable Raman spectrometer products. Our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, manufacturing and other resources than we do, especially in the semiconductor equipment market where we have not previously offered a product. We cannot assure you that our competitors will not develop enhancements to, or future generations of, competitive products that offer superior price or performance features. Likewise, we cannot assure you that new competitors will not enter our markets and develop such enhanced products. Moreover, competition for our customers is intense, and our competitors have historically offered substantial pricing concessions and incentives to attract our customers or retain their existing customers. We may not be successful in maintaining and obtaining the necessary export licenses to conduct operations abroad, and the United States government may prevent proposed sales to foreign customers. Many of our Imaging Instrumentation products require export licenses from United States Government agencies under the Export Administration Act, the Trading with the Enemy Act of 1917, the Arms Export Act of 1976 and the International Traffic in Arms Regulations. This limits the potential market for our products. We can give no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining all the licenses necessary to export our products. Recently, heightened government scrutiny of export licenses for products in our market has resulted in lengthened review periods for our license applications. Export to countries which are not considered by the United States Government to be allies is likely to be prohibited, and even sales to U.S. allies may be limited. Failure to obtain, delays in obtaining, or revocation of previously issued licenses would prevent us from selling our products outside the United States, may subject us to fines or other penalties, and would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our products are complex, constantly evolving and often must be customized to individual customer requirements. The systems we manufacture and sell in our Equipment business have a large number of components and are complex, which requires us to make substantial investments in research and development. This is especially true with the new Lean Etch system. If we were to fail to develop, manufacture and market new systems or to enhance existing systems, that failure would have an adverse effect on our business. We may experience delays and technical and manufacturing difficulties in future introduction, volume production and acceptance of new systems or enhancements. In addition, some of the systems that we manufacture must be customized to meet individual customer site or operating requirements. In some cases, we market and commit to deliver new systems, modules and components with advanced features and capabilities that we are still in the process of designing. We have limited manufacturing capacity and engineering resources and may be unable to complete the development, manufacture and shipment of these products, or to meet the required technical specifications for these products, in a timely manner. Failure to deliver these products on time, or failure to deliver products that perform to all contractually committed specifications, could have adverse effects on our business, including rescheduling of backlog, failure to achieve customer acceptance and therefore revenue recognition as anticipated, unanticipated rework and warranty costs, penalties for non-performance, cancellation of orders, or return of products for credit. In addition, we may incur substantial unanticipated costs early in a product’s life cycle, such as increased engineering, manufacturing, installation and support costs, that we may be unable to pass on to the customer and that may affect our gross margins. Sometimes we work closely with our customers to develop new features and products. In connection with these transactions, we sometimes offer a period of exclusivity to these customers. Our Imaging Instrumentation business depends heavily on government contracts, which are subject to immediate termination and are funded in increments. The termination of or failure to fund one or more of these contracts could have a negative impact on our operations. We sell many of our Imaging Instrumentation products and services directly to the U.S. government, as well as to prime contractors for various U.S. government programs. Our revenues from government contracts totaled 14 Table of Contents $14.1 million, $10.2 million, and $6.9 million in 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. Generally, government contracts are subject to oversight audits by government representatives and contain provisions permitting termination, in whole or in part, without prior notice at the government’s convenience upon the payment of compensation only for work done and commitments made at the time of termination. We cannot assure you that one or more of the government contracts under which our customers or we operate will not be terminated under these circumstances. Also, we cannot assure you that we or our customers would be able to procure new government contracts to offset the revenues lost as a result of any termination of existing contracts, nor can we assure you that we or our customers will continue to remain in good standing as federal contractors. Furthermore, the funding of multi-year government programs is subject to congressional appropriations, and there is no guarantee that the U.S. government will make further appropriations. The loss of funding for a government program would result in a loss of future revenues attributable to that program. In addition, sales to the U.S. government and its prime contractors may be affected by changes in procurement policies, budget considerations and political developments in the United States or abroad. The influence of any of these factors, which are beyond our control, could also negatively impact our financial condition. We also may experience problems associated with advanced designs required by the government, which may result in unforeseen technological difficulties and cost overruns. Failure to overcome these technological difficulties or occurrence of cost overruns would have a material adverse effect on our business. Unexpected increases in the cost to develop or manufacture our products under fixed-price contracts may cause us to experience un-reimbursed cost overruns. A portion of our revenue is derived from fixed-price development and production contracts. Under fixed-price contracts, unexpected increases in the cost to develop or manufacture a product, whether due to inaccurate estimates in the bidding process, unanticipated increases in material costs, reduced production volumes, inefficiencies or other factors, are borne by us. We have experienced cost overruns in the past that have resulted in losses on certain contracts, and may experience additional cost overruns in the future. We are required to recognize the total estimated impact of cost overruns in the period in which they are first identified. Such cost overruns could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. Our sales of Equipment products are dependent on substantial capital investment by our customers, far in excess of the cost of our products. Our customers must make extremely large capital expenditures in order to purchase our systems and other related equipment and facilities. These costs are far in excess of the cost of our systems alone. The magnitude of such capital expenditures requires that our customers have access to large amounts of capital and that they be willing to invest that capital over long periods of time to be able to purchase our equipment. The magnetic disk and semiconductor manufacturing industries have made significant additions to their production capacity in the last few years. Our customers may not be willing or able to continue this level of capital investment, especially during a downturn in the overall economy, the hard disk drive industry, or the semiconductor industry. Our stock price is volatile. The market price and trading volume of our common stock has been subject to significant volatility, and this trend may continue. During 2007, the closing price of our common stock, as traded on The Nasdaq National Market, fluctuated from a low of $13.23 per share to a high of $30.57 per share. More recently, our stock price has closed as low as $10.14 per share. The value of our common stock may decline regardless of our operating performance or prospects. Factors affecting our market price include: • our perceived prospects; • hard disk drive market expectations; • variations in our operating results and whether we achieve our key business targets; • sales or purchases of large blocks of our stock; 15 Table of Contents • changes in, or our failure to meet, our revenue and earnings estimates; • changes in securities analysts’ buy or sell recommendations; • differences between our reported results and those expected by investors and securities analysts; • announcements of new contracts, products or technological innovations by us or our competitors; • market reaction to any acquisitions, joint ventures or strategic investments announced by us or our competitors; • our high fixed operating expenses, including research and development expenses; • developments in the financial markets; and • general economic, political or stock market conditions in the United States and other major regions in which we do business. In addition, the general economic, political, stock market and industry conditions that may affect the market price of our common stock are beyond our control. The market price of our common stock at any particular time may not remain the market price in the future. In the past, securities class action litigation has been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. Any such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. The liquidity of our Auction Rate Securities may be impaired, which may impact our ability to meet our cash requirements and require additional debt funding. At December 31, 2007, we held $81.5 million of Auction Rate Securities. These securities have long-term underlying maturities (ranging from 20 to 40 years), but the market has historically been highly liquid and the interest rates reset every 7 or 28 days. We do not intend to hold these securities to maturity, but rather to use the interest rate reset feature to sell the securities as needed to provide liquidity. Beginning in mid-February of 2008, certain of these Auction Rate Securities failed auction due to sell orders exceeding buy orders. The funds associated with failed auctions will not be accessible until a successful auction occurs or a buyer is found outside of the auction process. We do not know when, or if, one of these circumstances will occur. All of our Auction Rate Securities are student loan structured issues, where the loans have been originated under the Department of Education’s Federal Family Education Loan Program and the principal and interest is 97% reinsured by the U.S. Department of Education. At this time, there has been no change in the AAA rating of these securities, but we cannot be certain that no change will occur in the future. We may also be required to reclassify all or a part of these securities from short-term to long-term investments. If the issuer of the auction rate securities is unable to successfully close future auctions or does not redeem the auction rate securities, or the United States government fails to support its guaranty of the obligations, the Company may be required to adjust the carrying value of the auction rate securities and record an other-than-temporary impairment charge. We have entered into a line of credit with Citigroup Global Markets Inc. under which approximately $20 million is available to us to help secure our ability to fund our cash requirements until we are able to liquidate our Auction Rate Securities, but if we are unable to maintain the line of credit, or if the interest rate of the line of credit is prohibitive or the amount of the line of credit is insufficient, we could experience difficulties in meeting our cash requirements until the market for the Auction Rate Securities becomes liquid again and we may have to seek additional debt funding to finance our operations. Changes in tax rates or tax liabilities could affect future results. As a global company, we are subject to taxation in the United States and various other countries. Significant judgment is required to determine and estimate worldwide tax liabilities. Our future tax rates could be affected by changes in the applicable tax laws, composition of earnings in countries with differing tax rates, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in the tax laws. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, there can be no assurance that any final determination will not be materially different from the treatment reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Our effective tax rate in both 2007 was well below the applicable statutory rates due primarily to permanent differences and the utilization of research and development credits. In 2006, our effective tax rate was well below the applicable statutory rates due primarily to the utilization of net operating loss carry-forwards and deferred credits. We have experienced significant growth and contraction in our business and operations and if we do not appropriately manage this growth and contraction, now and in the future, then our operating results will be negatively affected. Our business has both grown and contracted significantly in recent years, in both operations and headcount, and this growth and contraction causes significant strain on our infrastructure, internal systems and managerial resources. To manage our growth and contraction effectively, we must continue to improve and enhance our infrastructure, including information technology and financial operating and administrative systems and controls, and continue managing headcount, capital and processes in an efficient manner. Our productivity and the quality of our products may be adversely affected if we do not integrate and train our new employees quickly and effectively and coordinate among our executive, engineering, finance, marketing, sales, operations and customer support organizations, all of which add to the complexity of our organization and increase our operating expenses. We also may be less able to predict and effectively control our operating expenses due to the growth and increasing complexity of our business. In addition, our information technology systems may not grow at a sufficient rate to keep up with the processing and information demands placed on them by a much larger company. The efforts to continue to expand our information technology systems or our inability to do so could harm our business. Further, revenues may not grow at a sufficient rate to absorb the costs associated with a larger overall headcount. Our future growth may require significant additional resources, given that, as we increase our business operations in complexity and scale, we may have insufficient management capabilities and internal bandwidth to manage our growth and business effectively. We cannot assure you that resources will be available when we need them or that we will have sufficient capital to fund these potential resource needs. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively or if we experience a shortfall in resources, our results of operations will be harmed. Our current and future success depends on international sales and the management of global operations. In 2007, approximately 82% of our revenues came from regions outside the United States. Substantially all of our international sales are to customers in Asia, which includes products shipped to overseas operations of U.S. companies. We currently have international customer support offices in Singapore, China, Malaysia, Korea and Japan. We expect that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue in future years. Certain of our manufacturing facilities and suppliers are also located outside the United States. Managing our global operations presents challenges including, but not limited to, those arising from: • varying regional and geopolitical business conditions and demands; • global trade issues; • variations in protection of intellectual property and other legal rights in different countries; • rising raw material and energy costs; • variations in the ability to develop relationships with suppliers and other local businesses; • changes in laws and regulations of the United States (including export restrictions) and other countries, as well as their interpretation and application; • fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates, particularly with the recent decline in the value of the U.S. dollar; • the need to provide sufficient levels of technical support in different locations; • political instability, natural disasters (such as earthquakes, hurricanes or floods), pandemics, terrorism or acts of war where we have operations, suppliers or sales; 17 Table of Contents • cultural differences; and • shipping delays. Changes in existing financial accounting standards or practices or taxation rules or practices may adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in existing accounting or taxation rules or practices, new accounting pronouncements or taxation rules, or varying interpretations of current accounting pronouncements or taxation practice could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations or the manner in which we conduct our business. Further, such changes could potentially affect our reporting of transactions completed before such changes are effective. In June 2006, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes” (“FIN 48”). FIN 48, which was effective January 1, 2007, clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise’s financial statements in accordance with FASB Statement No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes.” We adopted FIN 48 in the first quarter of fiscal year 2007. We are required to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and any adverse results from such evaluation could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our management must perform evaluations of our internal control over financial reporting. Beginning in 2004, our Form 10-K has included a report by management of their assessment of the adequacy of such internal control. Additionally, our independent registered public accounting firm must publicly attest to the effectiveness of our internal control. We have completed the evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Although our assessment, testing, and evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of December 31, 2007, our internal controls over financial reporting were effective, we cannot predict the outcome of our testing in future periods. If our internal controls are ineffective in future periods, our financial results or the market price of our shares could be adversely affected. We will incur additional expenses and commitment of management’s time in connection with further evaluations. Our dependence on suppliers for certain parts, some of them sole-sourced, makes us vulnerable to manufacturing interruptions and delays, which could affect our ability to meet customer demand. We are a manufacturing business. Purchased parts constitute the largest component of our product cost. Our ability to manufacture depends on the timely delivery of parts, components and subassemblies from suppliers. We obtain some of the key components and sub-assemblies used in our products from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. If any of our suppliers fail to deliver quality parts on a timely basis, we may experience delays in manufacturing, which could result in delayed product deliveries or increased costs to expedite deliveries or develop alternative suppliers. Development of alternative suppliers could require redesign of our products. Our business depends on the integrity of our intellectual property rights and failure to protect our intellectual property rights adequately could have a material adverse effect on our business. The success of our business depends upon the integrity of our intellectual property rights, and we cannot assure you that: • any of our pending or future patent applications will be allowed or that any of the allowed applications will be issued as patents or will issue with claims of the scope we sought; • any of our patents will not be invalidated, deemed unenforceable, circumvented or challenged; • the rights granted under our patents will provide competitive advantages to us; 18 Table of Contents • other parties will not develop similar products, duplicate our products or design around our patents; or • our patent rights, intellectual property laws or our agreements will adequately protect our intellectual property or competitive position. We may be subject to claims of intellectual property infringement. From time to time, we have received claims that we are infringing third parties’ intellectual property rights or seeking to invalidate our rights. We cannot assure you that third parties will not in the future claim that we have infringed current or future patents, trademarks or other proprietary rights relating to our products. Any claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us. Our success is dependent on recruiting and retaining a highly talented work force. Our employees are vital to our success, and our key management, engineering and other employees are difficult to replace. We generally do not have employment contracts with our key employees. Further, we do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our employees. The expansion of high technology companies worldwide has increased demand and competition for qualified personnel, and has made companies increasingly protective of prior employees. It may be difficult for us to locate employees who are not subject to non-competition agreements and other restrictions. The majority of our U.S. operations are located in Santa Clara, California and Fremont, California, where the cost of living and of recruiting employees is high. Additionally, our operating results depend, in large part, upon our ability to retain and attract qualified management, engineering, marketing, manufacturing, customer support, sales and administrative personnel. Furthermore, we compete with similar industries, such as the semiconductor industry, for the same pool of skilled employees. If we are unable to retain key personnel, or if we are not able to attract, assimilate or retain additional highly qualified employees to meet our needs in the future, our business and operations could be harmed. Changes in demand caused by fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates may reduce our international sales. Sales and operating activities outside of the United States are subject to inherent risks, including fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies, tariffs, quotas, taxes and other market barriers, political and economic instability, restrictions on the export or import of technology, potentially limited intellectual property protection, difficulties in staffing and managing international operations and potentially adverse tax consequences. We earn a significant portion of our revenue from international sales, and there can be no assurance that any of these factors will not have an adverse effect on our ability to sell our products or operate outside the United States. We currently quote and sell the majority of our products in U.S. dollars. From time to time, we may enter into foreign currency contracts in an effort to reduce the overall risk of currency fluctuations to our business. However, there can be no assurance that the offer and sale of products denominated in foreign currencies, and the related foreign currency hedging activities, will not adversely affect our business. Our principal competitor for disk sputtering equipment is based in Japan and has a cost structure based on the Japanese yen. Accordingly, currency fluctuations could cause the price of our products to be more or less competitive than our principal competitor’s products. Currency fluctuations will decrease or increase our cost structure relative to those of our competitors, which could lessen the demand for our products and affect our competitive position. Difficulties in integrating past or future acquisitions could adversely affect our business. We have completed a number of acquisitions during our operating history. In early 2007, we completed the acquisition of certain assets of DeltaNu, LLC, and in the fourth quarter of 2007 we completed the acquisition of certain assets of Creative Display Systems, LLC. We have spent and will continue to spend significant resources 19 Table of Contents identifying and acquiring businesses. The efficient and effective integration of our acquired businesses into our organization is critical to our growth. Any future acquisitions involve numerous risks including difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies and products of the acquired companies, the diversion of our management’s attention from other business concerns and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies. Failure to achieve the anticipated benefits of these and any future acquisitions or to successfully integrate the operations of the companies we acquire could also harm our business, results of operations and cash flows. Any future acquisitions may also result in potentially dilutive issuance of equity securities, acquisition- or divestiture-related write-offs or the assumption of debt and contingent liabilities. We use hazardous materials and are subject to risks of non-compliance with environmental and safety regulations. We are subject to a variety of governmental regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge, handling, emission, generation, manufacture, treatment and disposal of toxic or otherwise hazardous substances, chemicals, materials or waste. If we fail to comply with current or future regulations, such failure could result in suspension of our operations, alteration of our manufacturing process, or substantial civil penalties or criminal fines against us or our officers, directors or employees. Additionally, these regulations could require us to acquire expensive remediation or abatement equipment or to incur substantial expenses to comply with them. Failure to properly manage the use, disposal or storage of, or adequately restrict the release of, hazardous or toxic substances could subject us to significant liabilities. Future sales of shares of our common stock by our officers, directors and affiliates could cause our stock price to decline. Substantially all of our common stock may be sold without restriction in the public markets, although shares held by our directors, executive officers and affiliates may be subject to volume and manner of sale restrictions. Sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock in the public market by our officers, directors or affiliates or the perception that these sales could occur could materially and adversely affect our stock price and make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and price we deem appropriate. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control, which could negatively impact the value of our common stock by discouraging a favorable merger or acquisition of us. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the powers, preferences, privileges, rights, including voting rights, qualifications, limitations and restrictions of those shares, without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that we may issue in the future. The issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control and could adversely affect the voting power of your shares. In addition, provisions of Delaware law and our bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock by discouraging a hostile bid, or delaying or deterring a merger, acquisition or tender offer in which our stockholders could receive a premium for their shares or a proxy contest for control of our company or other changes in our management. We could be involved in litigation. From time to time we may be involved in litigation of various types, including litigation alleging infringement of intellectual property rights and other claims. For example, in July 2006, we filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Unaxis USA, Inc. and its affiliates Unaxis Balzers AG and Unaxis Balzers, Ltd. alleging infringement by Unaxis of a patent relating to our 200 Lean system. See Part I, Item 3 of this Form 10-K for further information regarding this lawsuit. Litigation is expensive and can require significant management time and attention and could have a negative effect on our results of operations or business if we lose or have to settle a case on significantly adverse terms. 20 Table of Contents Business interruptions could adversely affect our operations. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption by fire, earthquake or other natural disaster, quarantines or other disruptions associated with infectious diseases, national catastrophe, terrorist activities, war, disruptions in our computing and communications infrastructure due to power loss, telecommunications failure, human error, physical or electronic security breaches and computer viruses, and other events beyond our control. We do not have a fully implemented detailed disaster recovery plan. Despite our implementation of network security measures, our tools and servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems and tools located at customer sites. Political instability could cause us to incur increased costs in transportation, make such transportation unreliable, increase our insurance costs and cause international currency markets to fluctuate. This same instability could have the same effects on our suppliers and their ability to timely deliver their products. In addition, we do not carry sufficient business interruption insurance to compensate us for all losses that may occur, and any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. For example, we self-insure earthquake risks, because we believe this is the prudent financial decision based on the high cost of the limited coverage available in the earthquake insurance market. An earthquake could significantly disrupt our operations, most of which are conducted in California. It could also significantly delay our research and engineering effort on new products, most of which is also conducted in California. We take steps to minimize the damage that would be caused by an earthquake, but there is no certainty that our efforts will prove successful in the event of an earthquake. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 