RISK FACTORS; FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT OPERATING RESULTS In addition to other information contained in this Form 10-K, investors should carefully consider the following factors that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. All statements other than statements of historical fact are “forward-looking statements” for purposes of these provisions, including any statements regarding: projections of revenues, expenses, gross profit, gross margin, or other financial items; the plans and objectives of management for future operations; the Company’s tax rate; the adequacy of allowances for returns, price protection and other concessions; proposed new products or services; the sufficiency of cash generated from operations and cash balances; the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk; future economic conditions or performance; plans to focus on cost control; plans to seek intellectual property protection for the Company’s technologies; expectations regarding export sales and net revenues; the expansion of sales efforts; acquisition prospects; the results of our acquisition of SaRonix and our other possible future acquisitions and assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of terminology such as “may,” “will,” “expects,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” “potential,” or “continue,” or the negative thereof or other comparable terminology. Although 15 Table of Contents the Company believes that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements contained herein are reasonable, there can be no assurance that such expectations or any of the forward-looking statements will prove to be correct, and actual results could differ materially from those projected or assumed in the forward-looking statements. The Company’s future financial condition and results of operations, as well as any forward-looking statements, are subject to risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to the factors set forth below and else ware in this report. All forward-looking statements and reasons why results may differ included in this Annual Report are made as of the date hereof, and the Company assumes no obligation to update any such forward-looking statement or reason why actual results may differ. In the past, our operating results have varied significantly and are likely to fluctuate in the future. A wide variety of factors affect our operating results. These factors might include the following: • changes in the quantity of our products sold • changes in the average selling price of our products • general conditions in the semiconductor industry; • changes in our product mix; • a decline in the gross margins of our products; • the operating results of SaRonix product line, which we acquired on October 1, 2003; • expenses incurred in obtaining, enforcing, and defending intellectual property rights; • the timing of new product introductions and announcements by us and by our competitors; • customer acceptance of new products introduced by us; • delay or decline in orders received from distributors; • growth or reduction in the size of the market for interface ICs; • the availability of manufacturing capacity with our wafer suppliers; • changes in manufacturing costs; • fluctuations in manufacturing yields; • disqualification by our customers for quality or performance related issues; • the ability of customers to pay us; and • increased research and development expenses associated with new product introductions or process changes. All of these factors are difficult to forecast and could seriously harm our operating results. Our expense levels are based in part on our expectations regarding future sales and are largely fixed in the short term. Therefore, we may be unable to reduce our expenses fast enough to compensate for any unexpected shortfall in sales. Any significant decline in demand relative to our expectations or any material delay of customer orders could harm our operating results. In addition, if our operating results in future quarters fall below public market analysts’ and investors’ expectations, the market price of our common stock would likely decrease. The demand for our products depends on the growth of our end users’ markets. Our continued success depends in large part on the continued growth of markets for the products into which our semiconductor and frequency control products are incorporated. These markets include the following: • computers and computer related peripherals; • data communications and telecommunications equipment; • electronic commerce and the Internet; and • consumer electronics equipment. Any decline in the demand for products in these markets could seriously harm our business, financial condition and operating results. These markets have also historically experienced significant fluctuations in demand. We may also be seriously harmed by slower growth in the other markets in which we sell our products. 16 Table of Contents If we do not develop products that our customers and end-users design into their products, or if their products do not sell successfully, our business and operating results would be harmed. We have relied in the past and continue to rely upon our relationships with our customers and end-users for insights into product development strategies for emerging system requirements. We generally incorporate new products into a customer’s or end-user’s product or system at the design stage. However, these design efforts, which can often require significant expenditures by us, may precede product sales, if any, by a year or more. Moreover, the value to us of any design win will depend in large part on the ultimate success of the customer or end-user’s product and on the extent to which the system’s design accommodates components manufactured by our competitors. If we fail to achieve design wins or if the design wins fail to result in significant future revenues, our operating results would be harmed. If we have problems developing or maintaining our relationships with our customers and end-users, our ability to develop well-accepted new products may be impaired. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, and our financial results could be harmed if we do not successfully develop and implement new manufacturing technologies or develop, introduce and sell new products. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, frequent new product introductions and declining selling prices over product life cycles. We currently offer a comprehensive portfolio of silicon and quartz based products. Our future success depends upon the timely completion and introduction of new products, across all our product lines, at competitive price and performance levels. The success of new products depends on a variety of factors, including the following: • product performance and functionality; • customer acceptance; • competitive cost structure and pricing; • successful and timely completion of product development; • sufficient wafer fabrication capacity; and • achievement of acceptable manufacturing yields by our wafer suppliers. We may also experience delays, difficulty in procuring adequate fabrication capacity for the development and manufacture of new products or other difficulties in achieving volume production of these products. Even relatively minor errors may significantly affect the development and manufacture of new products. If we fail to complete and introduce new products in a timely manner at competitive price and performance levels, our business would be significantly harmed. Intense competition in the semiconductor industry may reduce the demand for our products or the prices of our products, which could reduce our revenues and gross profits. The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive. Our competitors include Analog Devices, Cypress Semiconductor Corporation, Fairchild Semiconductor, Int’l. Hitachi, Integrated Circuit Systems, Inc., Integrated Device Technology, Inc., Intel Corp., Maxim Integrated Products, Inc., Motorola, On Semiconductor Corp., Philips, Tundra Semiconductor Corp., PLX Technology, STMicroelectronics, Texas Instruments, Inc., and Toshiba. Most of those competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources, broader product lines and longer-standing customer relationships than we do. We also compete with other major or emerging companies that sell products to certain segments of our markets. Competitors with greater financial resources or broader product lines may have a greater ability to sustain price reductions in our primary markets in order to gain or maintain market share. We believe that our future success will depend on our ability to continue to improve and develop our products and processes. Unlike us, many of our competitors maintain internal manufacturing capacity for the fabrication and assembly of semiconductor products. This ability may provide them with more reliable manufacturing capability, shorter development and manufacturing cycles and time-to-market advantages. In addition, competitors with their own wafer fabrication facilities that are capable of producing products with the same design geometries, as ours may be able to manufacture and sell competitive products at lower prices. Any introduction of products by our competitors that are manufactured with improved process technology could seriously harm our business. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, our competitors have developed and marketed products that function similarly or identically to ours. If our products do not 17 Table of Contents achieve performance, price, size or other advantages over products offered by our competitors, our products may lose market share. Competitive pressures could also reduce market acceptance of our products, reduce our prices and increase our expenses. We also face competition from the makers of ASICs and other system devices. These devices may include interface logic functions, which may eliminate the need or sharply reduce the demand for our products in particular applications. Our results of operations have been adversely affected by the global economic slowdowns in the past. In the past, the global economy has experienced economic slowdowns that were due to many factors, including decreased consumer confidence, unemployment, the threat of terrorism, and reduced corporate profits and capital spending. These unfavorable conditions have resulted in significant declines in our new customer order rates. Any future global economic slowing may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Downturns in the semiconductor industry, rapidly changing technology, accelerated selling price erosion and evolving industry standards can harm our operating results. The semiconductor industry has historically been cyclical and periodically subject to significant economic downturns—characterized by diminished product demand, accelerated erosion of selling prices and overcapacity—as well as rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards. In the future, we may experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in our business and operating results due to general semiconductor industry conditions, overall economic conditions or other factors. Our business is also subject to the risks associated with the effects of legislation and regulations relating to the import or export of semiconductor products. Our acquisition of eCERA, and other potential future acquisitions may not be successful. On September 7, 2005, we acquired from Aker Technology of Taiwan its eCERA frequency control products subsidiary (“eCERA”). eCERA has been a key supplier of our frequency control products business unit for several years. In general, we have not previously manufactured our products but have instead depended upon third party manufacturers, such as eCERA, to manufacture them. Thus, since we have not previously operated a manufacturing operation, there can be no assurance that we will be able to operate it successfully. The eCERAacquisition and other potential future acquisitions could result in the following: • large one-time write-offs; • the difficulty in integrating newly-acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and effective manner; • the challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings, and other benefits from acquisitions as anticipated; • the risk of diverting the attention of senior management from other business concerns; • risks of entering geographic and business markets in which we have no or limited prior experience and potential loss of key employees of acquired organizations; • the risk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the technologies and capabilities acquired do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; • potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities; • the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities or amortization expenses related to intangible assets; • difficulties in the assimilation of operations, personnel, technologies, products and the information systems of the acquired companies; and • difficulties in expanding information technology systems and other business processes to accommodate the acquired businesses As part of our business strategy, we expect to seek other acquisition prospects, in addition to eCERA, that would complement our existing product offerings, improve our market coverage or enhance our technological capabilities. Although we are evaluating acquisition and strategic investment opportunities on 18 Table of Contents an ongoing basis, we may not be able to locate suitable acquisition or investment opportunities. In addition, from time to time, we invest in other companies, without actually acquiring them, and such investments involve many of the same risks as are involved with acquisitions The trading price of our common stock and our operating results are likely to fluctuate substantially in the future. The trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile. Our stock price could fluctuate widely in response to factors some of which are not within our control, including: • general conditions in the semiconductor and electronic systems industries; • quarter-to-quarter variations in operating results; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; and • changes in earnings estimates by analysts; and price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market, which have particularly affected the market prices of many high technology companies. Implementation of the new FASB rules for the accounting of equity and the issuance of new laws or other accounting regulations, or reinterpretation of existing laws or regulations, could materially impact our business or stated results. The recently issued Statement of Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 123(R) “Share-Based Payments” will require the company to recognize the cost of employee services received in exchange for awards of equity instruments, based on the grant date fair value of those awards, in the financial statements. Management is still assessing the total impact but expects the adoption of this statement to have a negative impact on the Company’s future results of operations. In general, from time to time, the government, courts and the financial accounting boards may issue new laws or accounting regulations, or modify or reinterpret existing ones. There may be future changes in laws, interpretations or regulations that would affect our financial results or the way in which we present them. Additionally, changes in the laws or regulations could have adverse effects on hiring and many other aspects of our business that would affect our ability to compete, both nationally and internationally. We determined that we had a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of July 2, 2005, which we are in the process of remediating. As a result, we had to implement supplemental compensating procedures to determine that our financial statements are fairly stated in all material respects. This material weakness, could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse impact on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, beginning with our Annual Report on form 10-K for fiscal year ended July 2, 2005, we are required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. Such report will contain, among other matters, a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. Such report must also contain a statement that our auditors have issued an attestation report on management’s assessment of such internal controls. The Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) provides a framework to assess and improve our internal control systems. Auditing standard No. 2 provides the professional standards and related performance guidance for auditors to attest to, and report on, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting under section 404. Management’s assessment of internal controls over financial reporting requires management to make subjective judgments and, particularly because Section 404 and Auditing standard No. 2 are newly effective, some of the judgments will be in areas that may be open to interpretation and therefore the report will be uniquely difficult to prepare. We have performed the system and process documentation and evaluation needed to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which is both costly and challenging. Management had identified a 19 Table of Contents material weakness in its internal control processes over financial reporting. Specifically, we incurred increased research and development costs as many of our products were redesigned to be manufactured by a different manufacturing facility. Initially, these costs were expensed to research and development. Subsequently, these costs were incorrectly removed from research and development expense and capitalized into inventory.. This incorrect capitalization led to restatement of our financial statements for the first three quarters of 2005. As a result of the restatement, R&D increased in each of the first three quarters of fiscal 2005 from amounts previously reported and inventory and cost of sales decreased from amounts previously reported. Having a material weakness in our internal controls could cause investors to lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price The company is in the process of designing internal control procedures to remediate the material weakness and expects to complete the effort in the first quarter of fiscal 2006, and until this is completed this could cause a loss of investor confidence and decline in our stock price. Customer demand for the Company’s products is volatile and difficult to predict. The Company’s customers continuously adjust their inventories in response to changes in end market demand for their products and the availability of semiconductor components. This results in frequent changes in demand for the Company’s products. The volatility of customer demand limits the Company’s ability to predict future levels of sales and profitability. The supply of semiconductors can quickly and unexpectedly match or exceed demand because end customer demand can change very quickly. Also, semiconductor suppliers can rapidly increase production output. This can lead to a sudden oversupply situation and a subsequent reduction in order rates and revenues as customers adjust their inventories to true demand rates. A rapid and sudden decline in customer demand for the Company’s products can result in excess quantities of certain of the Company’s products relative to demand. Should this occur the Company’s operating results might be adversely affected as a result of charges to reduce the carrying value of the Company’s inventory to the estimated demand level or market price. Changes to environmental laws and regulations applicable to manufacturers of electrical and electronic equipment are causing us to redesign our products, and may increase our costs and expose us to liability. The implementation of new environmental regulatory legal requirements, such as lead free initiatives, could impact our product designs and manufacturing processes. The impact of such regulations on our product designs and manufacturing processes could affect the timing of compliant product introductions as well as their commercial success. For example, a recent directive in the European Union bans the use of lead and other heavy metals in electrical and electronic equipment after July 1, 2006. As a result, in advance of this deadline, some of our customers selling products in Europe have begun demanding product from component manufacturers that do not contain these banned substances. Because most of our existing assembly processes (as well as those of most other manufacturers) utilize a tin-lead alloy as a soldering material in the manufacturing process, we must redesign many of our products if we are to meet customer demand. This redesign may result in increased research and development and manufacturing and quality control costs. In addition, the products that we manufacture that comply with the new regulatory standards may not perform as well as our current products. Moreover, if we are unable to successfully and timely redesign existing products and introduce new products that meet the standards set by environmental regulation and our customers, sales of our products could decline, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our contracts with our wafer suppliers do not obligate them to a minimum supply or set prices. Any inability or unwillingness of our wafer suppliers generally, and Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing Ltd. in particular, to meet our manufacturing requirements would delay our production and product shipments and harm our business. In fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003 we purchased approximately 43%, 75% and 72%, respectively, of our wafers from Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing Ltd. Also in fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003 we purchased approximately 43%, 16% and 14% respectively, of our wafers from MagnaChip. In fiscal 2005, five other suppliers manufactured the remainder of our wafers. In fiscal 2004, only four other suppliers manufactured the remainder of our wafers. In fiscal 2003, three other suppliers manufactured the remainder of our wafers. Our reliance on independent wafer suppliers to fabricate our wafers at their production facilities subjects us to possible risks such as: • lack of adequate capacity; 20 Table of Contents • lack of available manufactured products; • lack of control over delivery schedules; and • unanticipated changes in wafer prices. Any inability or unwillingness of our wafer suppliers generally, and Chartered and MagnaChip in particular, to provide adequate quantities of finished wafers to meet our needs in a timely manner would delay our production and product shipments and seriously harm our business. In March 2004, Chartered shut down one of their production facilities that are used to manufacture our products. We have transitioned the production of these products to different facilities. This was a major project requiring significant technological coordination between Chartered and Pericom. The transfer of production of our products to other facilities subjects us to the above listed risks as well as potential yield or other production problems, which could arise as a result of the change. At present, we purchase wafers from our suppliers through the issuance of purchase orders based on our rolling six-month forecasts. The purchase orders are subject to acceptance by each wafer supplier. We do not have long-term supply contracts that obligate our suppliers to a minimum supply or set prices. We also depend upon our wafer suppliers to participate in process improvement efforts, such as the transition to finer geometries. If our suppliers are unable or unwilling to do so, our development and introduction of new products could be delayed. Furthermore, sudden shortages of raw materials or production capacity constraints can lead wafer suppliers to allocate available capacity to customers other than us or for the suppliers’ internal uses, interrupting our ability to meet our product delivery obligations. Any significant interruption in our wafer supply would seriously harm our operating results and our customer relations. Our reliance on independent wafer suppliers may also lengthen the development cycle for our products, providing time-to-market advantages to our competitors that have in-house fabrication capacity. In the event that our suppliers are unable or unwilling to manufacture our key products in required volumes, we will have to identify and qualify additional wafer foundries. The qualification process can take up to six months or longer. Furthermore, we are unable to predict whether additional wafer foundries will become available to us or will be in a position to satisfy any of our requirements on a timely basis. We depend on single or limited source assembly subcontractors with whom we do not have written contracts. Any inability or unwillingness of our assembly subcontractors to meet our assembly requirements would delay our product shipments and harm our business. We primarily rely on foreign subcontractors for the assembly and packaging of our products and, to a lesser extent, for the testing of finished products. Some of these subcontractors are our single source supplier for some of our new packages. In addition, changes in our or a subcontractor’s business could cause us to become materially dependent on a single subcontractor. We have from time to time experienced difficulties in the timeliness and quality of product deliveries from our subcontractors and may experience similar or more severe difficulties in the future. We generally purchase these single or limited source components or services pursuant to purchase orders and have no guaranteed arrangements with these subcontractors. These subcontractors could cease to meet our requirements for components or services, or there could be a significant disruption in supplies from them, or degradation in the quality of components or services supplied by them. Any circumstance that would require us to qualify alternative supply sources could delay shipments, result in the loss of customers and limit or reduce our revenues. We may have difficulty accurately predicting revenues for future periods. Our expense levels are based in part on anticipated future revenue levels, which can be difficult to predict. Our business is characterized by short-term orders and shipment schedules. We do not have long-term purchase agreements with any of our customers, and customers can typically cancel or reschedule their orders without significant penalty. We typically plan production and inventory levels based on forecasts of customer demand generated with input from customers and sales representatives. Customer demand is highly unpredictable and can fluctuate substantially. If customer demand falls significantly below anticipated levels, our gross profit would be reduced. 21 Table of Contents We compete with others to attract and retain key personnel, and any loss of, or inability to attract, key personnel would harm us. To a greater degree than non-technology companies, our future success will depend on the continued contributions of our executive officers and other key management and technical personnel. None of these individuals has an employment agreement with us and each one would be difficult to replace. We do not maintain any key person life insurance policies on any of these individuals. The loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers or key personnel or the inability to continue to attract qualified personnel could delay product development cycles or otherwise harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success also will depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified technical, marketing and management personnel, particularly highly skilled design, process and test engineers, for whom competition can be intense. During strong business cycles, we expect to experience difficulty in filling our needs for qualified engineers and other personnel. Our limited ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights could harm our competitive position. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patents and licenses and preserve other intellectual property rights covering our products and development and testing tools. In the United States, we hold 91 patents covering certain aspects of our product designs and have at least 25 additional patent applications pending. Copyrights, mask work protection, trade secrets and confidential technological know-how are also key to our business. Additional patents may not be issued to us or our patents or other intellectual property may not provide meaningful protection. We may be subject to, or initiate, interference proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. These proceedings can consume significant financial and management resources. We may become involved in litigation relating to alleged infringement by us of others’ patents or other intellectual property rights. This type of litigation is frequently expensive to both the winning party and the losing party and takes up significant amounts of management’s time and attention. In addition, if we lose such a lawsuit, a court could require us to pay substantial damages and/or royalties or prohibit us from using essential technologies. For these and other reasons, this type of litigation could seriously harm our business. Also, although we may seek to obtain a license under a third party’s intellectual property rights in order to bring an end to certain claims or actions asserted against us, we may not be able to obtain such a license on reasonable terms or at all. Because it is important to our success that we are able to prevent competitors from copying our innovations, we intend to continue to seek patent, trade secret and mask work protection for our technologies. The process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive, and we cannot be certain that any currently pending or future applications will actually result in issued patents, or that, even if patents are issued, they will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. Furthermore, others may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology or design around the patents we own. We also rely on trade secret protection for our technology, in part through confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties. However, these parties may breach these agreements. In addition, the laws of some territories in which we develop, manufacture or sell our products may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent, as do the laws of the United States. The process technology used by our independent foundries, including process technology that we developed with our foundries, can generally be used by them to produce their own products or to manufacture products for other companies including our competitors. In addition, we may not have the right to implement key process technologies used to manufacture some of our products with foundries other than our present foundries. We may not provide adequate allowances for exchanges, returns and concessions. We recognize revenue from the sale of products when shipped, less an allowance based on future authorized and historical patterns of returns, price protection, exchanges and other concessions. We believe our methodology and approach are appropriate. However, if the actual amounts we incur exceed the allowances, it could decrease our revenue and corresponding gross profit. 22 Table of Contents We have deferred tax assets that we may not be able to use under certain circumstances. If the company is unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in certain jurisdictions, or if there is a significant change in the actual effective tax rates or the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, the Company could be required to increase its valuation allowances against its deferred tax assets resulting in an increase in its effective tax rate and an adverse impact on future operating results. The complexity of our products makes us susceptible to manufacturing problems, which could increase our costs and delay our product shipments. The manufacture and assembly of our products are highly complex and sensitive to a wide variety of factors, including: • the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment; • impurities in the materials used; and • the performance of manufacturing personnel and production equipment. In a typical semiconductor manufacturing process, silicon wafers produced by a foundry are cut into individual die. These die are assembled into individual packages and tested for performance. Our wafer fabrication suppliers have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated yields of suitable die. In the event of such decreased yields, we would incur additional costs to sort wafers, an increase in average cost per usable die and an increase in the time to market or availability of our products. These conditions could reduce our net revenues and gross margin and harm our customer relations. We do not manufacture any of our IC products. Therefore, we are referred to in the semiconductor industry as a “fabless” producer. Consequently, we depend upon third party manufacturers to produce semiconductors that meet our specifications. We currently have third party manufacturers that can produce semiconductors that meet our needs. However, as the industry continues to progress to smaller manufacturing and design geometries, the complexities of producing semiconductors will increase. Decreasing geometries may introduce new problems and delays that may affect product development and deliveries. Due to the nature of the industry and our status as a “fabless” IC semiconductor company, we could encounter fabrication-related problems that may affect the availability of our products, delay our shipments or increase our costs. With the acquisition of eCERA, in the future we will be directly involved in the manufacture of our FCP products. As we have not previously operated a manufacturing facility, we may not be successful in operating the FCP facility, and as a consequence, there may be manufacturing related problems that affect our FCP products. See “Risk Factors; Factors That May Affect Operating Results – Our Acquisition of eCERA And Other Potential Future Acquisitions May Not Be Successful.” A large portion of our revenues is derived from sales to a few customers, who may cease purchasing from us at any time. A relatively small number of customers have accounted for a significant portion of our net revenues in each of the past several fiscal years. In general we expect this to continue for the foreseeable future. With the addition of SaRonix, Inc. the concentration of top customers has been reduced, as the top customers of SaRonix, Inc. are somewhat different than those of our core integrated circuit business. There were two direct customers, both Asian distributors that individually accounted for more than 10% of net revenues during the fiscal year ended July 2, 2005. For the fiscal year ended June 26, 2004 there was one direct customer that individually accounted for more than 10% of net revenues. For the fiscal year ended June 28, 2003 there were two direct customers that individually accounted for more than 10% of net revenues. As a percentage of net revenues, sales to our top five direct customers for the fiscal year ended July 2, 2005 totaled 46%, was 41% for the fiscal year ended June 26, 2004, and 45% for fiscal year ended June 28, 2003. We do not have long-term sales agreements with any of our customers. Our customers are not subject to minimum purchase requirements, may reduce or delay orders periodically due to excess inventory and may 23 Table of Contents discontinue purchasing our products at any time. Our distributors typically offer competing products in addition to ours. For the fiscal year ended July 2, 2005 sales to our distributors were approximately 51% of net revenues as compared to approximately 58% of net revenues in the fiscal year ended June 26, 2004, and 59% for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2003. The decrease in the percentage of sales to our distributors as compared with the prior periods was due in part to lower sales to domestic distributor customers. The loss of one or more significant customers, or the decision by a significant distributor to carry the product lines of our competitors, could decrease our revenues. Almost all of our wafer suppliers and assembly subcontractors are located in Southeast Asia, which exposes us to the problems associated with international operations. Almost all of our wafer suppliers and assembly subcontractors are located in Southeast Asia, which exposes us to risks associated with international business operations, including the following: • disruptions or delays in shipments; • changes in economic conditions in the countries where these subcontractors are located; • currency fluctuations; • changes in political conditions; • potentially reduced protection for intellectual property; • foreign governmental regulations; • import and export controls; and • changes in tax laws, tariffs and freight rates. In particular, there is a potential risk of conflict and further instability in the relationship between Taiwan and the People’s Republic of China. Conflict or instability could disrupt the operations of one of our principal wafer suppliers and several of our assembly subcontractors located in Taiwan. Because we sell our products to customers outside of the United States, we face foreign business, political and economic risks that could seriously harm us. In fiscal year 2005, approximately 68% of our net revenues derived from sales in Asia and approximately 6% from net sales in Europe. In fiscal year 2004, approximately 61% of our net revenues derived from sales in Asia and approximately 6% from net sales in Europe. In fiscal year 2003, approximately 59% of our net revenues derived from sales in Asia and approximately 8% from net sales in Europe. We expect that export sales will continue to represent a significant portion of net revenues. We intend to expand our sales efforts outside the United States. This expansion will require significant management attention and financial resources and further subject us to international operating risks. These risks include: • tariffs and other barriers and restrictions; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws; and • delays resulting from difficulty in obtaining export licenses for technology. We are also subject to general geopolitical risks in connection with our international operations, such as political and economic instability and changes in diplomatic and trade relationships. In addition, because our international sales are denominated in U.S. dollars, increases in the value of the U.S. dollar could increase the price in local currencies of our products in foreign markets and make our products relatively more expensive than competitors’ products that are denominated in local currencies. Regulatory, geopolitical and other factors could seriously harm our business or require us to modify our current business practices. Our shareholder rights plan may adversely affect existing shareholders. On March 6, 2002, we adopted a shareholder rights plan that may have the effect of deterring, delaying, or preventing a change in control that otherwise might be in the best interests of our shareholders. Under the rights plan, we issued a dividend of one preferred share purchase right for each share of our common stock held by shareholders of record as of March 21, 2002. Each right entitles shareholders to purchase one one-hundredth of our newly created Series D Junior Participating Preferred Share. 24 Table of Contents In general, the share purchase rights become exercisable when a person or group acquires 15% or more of our common stock or a tender offer of 15% or more of our common stock is announced or commenced. After such event, our other stockholders may purchase additional shares of our common stock at 50% off of the then-current market price. The rights will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. The rights should not interfere with any merger or other business combination approved by our Board of Directors since the rights may be redeemed by us at $0.001 per right at any time before any person or group acquire 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. These rights expire in March 2012. Our operations and financial results could be severely harmed by natural disasters. Our headquarters and some of our major suppliers’ manufacturing facilities are located near major earthquake faults. One of the foundries we use is located in Taiwan, which suffered a severe earthquake during fiscal 2000. We did not experience significant disruption to our operations as a result of that earthquake. However, if a major earthquake or other natural disaster were to affect our suppliers, our sources of supply could be interrupted, which would seriously harm our business. 