Risk Factors; Factors That May Affect Operating Results – Our Potential Future Acquisitions May Not Be Successful.” We derive a large portion of our revenues from sales to a few customers, who may cease purchasing from us at any time. A relatively small number of customers have accounted for a significant portion of our net revenues in each of the past several fiscal years. In general, we expect this to continue for the near future. With the addition of eCERA, we have reduced the concentration of our largest customers, as the largest customers of eCERA are somewhat different from those of our core integrated circuit business and existing FCP business. We had one Asian distributor that individually accounted for 13% of our net revenues during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007. During the fiscal year ended July 1, 2006, we had one Asian distributor that accounted for 11% of our net revenues. We had two direct customers, both Asian distributors, that each individually accounted for 14% of our net revenues during the fiscal year ended July 2, 2005. As a percentage of net revenues, sales to our top five direct customers in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007 totaled 35%, in the fiscal year ended July 1, 2006 totaled 36%, and totaled 46% for the fiscal year ended July 2, 2005. We do not have long-term sales agreements with any of our customers. Our customers are not subject to minimum purchase requirements, may reduce or delay orders periodically due to excess inventory and may discontinue purchasing our products at any time. Our distributors typically offer competing products in addition to ours. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007 sales to our distributors were approximately 40% of net revenues as compared to approximately 39% of net revenues in the fiscal year ended July 1, 2006, and 51% for the fiscal year ended July 2, 2005. The decrease in the percentage of sales to our distributors as compared with the prior periods was due in part to lower sales to domestic distributor customers. The loss of one or more significant customers, or the decision by a significant distributor to carry the product lines of our competitors could decrease our revenues. 24 Table of Contents Almost all of our wafer suppliers and assembly subcontractors are located in Southeast Asia, which exposes us to the problems associated with international operations. Almost all of our wafer suppliers and assembly subcontractors are located in Southeast Asia, which exposes us to risks associated with international business operations, including the following: • disruptions or delays in shipments; • changes in economic conditions in the countries where these subcontractors are located; • currency fluctuations; • changes in political conditions; • potentially reduced protection for intellectual property; • foreign governmental regulations; • import and export controls; and • changes in tax laws, tariffs and freight rates. In particular, there is a potential risk of conflict and further instability in the relationship between Taiwan and the People's Republic of China. Conflict or instability could disrupt the operations of our Taiwanese subsidiaries, or those of one of our principal wafer suppliers and several of our assembly subcontractors located in Taiwan. Because we sell our products to customers outside of the United States, we face foreign business, political and economic risks that could seriously harm us. In fiscal year 2007, we derived approximately 82% of our net revenues from sales in Asia and approximately 4% from sales outside of Asia and the United States. In fiscal year 2006, we generated approximately 64% of our net revenues from sales in Asia and approximately 17% from sales outside of Asia and the United States. In fiscal year 2005, approximately 68% of our net revenues derived from sales in Asia and approximately 6% from sales in Europe. We expect that export sales will continue to represent a significant portion of net revenues. We intend to continue our sales efforts outside the United States. These efforts will require significant management attention and financial resources. In addition, we will continue to face international operating risks. These risks include: • tariffs and other barriers and restrictions; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws; and • delays resulting from difficulty in obtaining export licenses for technology. We are also subject to general geopolitical risks in connection with our international operations, such as political and economic instability and changes in diplomatic and trade relationships. In addition, because our international sales are denominated in U.S. dollars, increases in the value of the U.S. dollar could increase the price in local currencies of our products in foreign markets and make our products relatively more expensive than competitors' products that are denominated in local currencies. Regulatory, geopolitical and other factors could seriously harm our business or require us to modify our current business practices. Our shareholder rights plan may adversely affect existing shareholders. On March 6, 2002, we adopted a shareholder rights plan that may have the effect of deterring, delaying, or preventing a change in control that otherwise might be in the best interests of our shareholders. Under the rights plan, we issued a dividend of one preferred share purchase right for each share of our common stock held by shareholders of record as of March 21, 2002. Each right entitles shareholders to purchase one one-hundredth of our Series D Junior Participating Preferred Stock. In general, the share purchase rights become exercisable when a person or group acquires 15% or more of our common stock or a tender offer of 15% or more of our common stock is announced or commenced. After such event, our other stockholders may purchase additional shares of our common stock at a 50% discount to the then-current market price. The rights will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. The rights should not interfere with any merger or other business combination approved by our Board of Directors since we may redeem the rights at $0.001 per right at any time before any person or group acquires 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. These rights expire in March 2012. 25 Table of Contents Natural disasters could severely harm our operations and financial results. Our headquarters and some of our major suppliers' manufacturing facilities are located near major earthquake faults. Some of our subsidiary operations and one of the foundries we use are located in Taiwan, which suffered a severe earthquake during fiscal 2000. We did not experience significant disruption to our operations because of that earthquake. However, if a major earthquake or other natural disaster were to affect our suppliers, our sources of supply could be interrupted, which would seriously harm our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 