ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in ICH common stock involves risk. Current and prospective investors should consider carefully the following risk factors, in addition to the other information contained in this and other reports and documents filed by us with the SEC, including documents incorporated herein by reference, before making investment decisions concerning ICH common stock. There may be additional risks of which we are currently unaware, or which we currently consider immaterial. Any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, our results of operations and the value of our common stock. Market for our Stock The price of our common stock may continue to be volatile. Our common stock historically has been thinly traded due, in part, to the fact that only about 1.8 million shares are held by non-affiliates of the Company. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially in the past including during Page 12 INVESTORS CAPITAL HOLDINGS LTD - 10-K Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2007 the last twelve months. The price of our common stock may be subject to fluctuations in the future in response to operating results, regulatory and other legal proceedings, general market movements and other factors. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. These fluctuations, as well as other factors including general economic and market conditions, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Financial Markets Aspects of our business are volatile and affected by factors beyond our control. Our business depends heavily on the conditions of the financial and securities markets, which in turn are affected by domestic and foreign economic conditions generally. These conditions, which can be impacted by a variety of factors such as business trends, actual and proposed legislation, political considerations, inflation, interest rates, and the popular perceptions of the health of the economy, are outside of our control, and therefore inject significant amounts of uncertainty and volatility into our business and financial results. Any market decline could adversely affect our revenues and earnings. Because our revenues and earnings are derived from investments made by consumers, a substantial market decline or other event, such as the September 11, 2001 attacks, that negatively impacts the investment decisions made by consumers can have a substantial adverse effect on our operations, business results and stock price. Assets under management, which impact revenue, may be subject to significant fluctuations. Our investment advisory fees are calculated as percentages of assets under management. A decline in securities prices or in the sale of investment products, whether due to recession or other damaging economic or political event, would likely reduce asset management fee income. Financial market declines or adverse changes in interest rates would generally negatively impact the level of assets under management by the Company and, consequently, our revenue and net income. Performance & Competition We face vigorous competition. The financial industry segments in which the Company and its subsidiaries operate are highly competitive, and many of our current and potential competitors have considerably greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than are available to us and may offer a broader range of products or operate in more markets. Some operate in a different regulatory environment which may give them certain competitive advantages in the investment products and portfolio structures that they offer. If we are required to lower our fees in order to remain competitive, our net income could be significantly reduced because some of our expenses are fixed, especially over shorter periods of time, and others would not decrease as much as the resulting decrease in revenues. We compete in our investment advisory operations based upon investment performance. The Company competes with other providers of investment advisor services primarily based on our investment performance. If we fail to deliver excellent performance for our clients, both in the short and long term, we will likely experience diminished investor interest and a diminished level of assets under management. Further, some institutions have proprietary products and distribution channels that make it more difficult for us to compete with them. If current or potential customers decide to use one or more of our competitors, we could face a significant decline in market share, assets under management, revenues and net income. Regulation As a public company, we are subject to complex legal and accounting requirements that require us to incur substantial expense and expose us to risk of non-compliance. As a public company, we are subject to numerous legal and accounting requirements imposed by federal law, such as the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as oversight by such entities as the SEC, the American Stock Exchange and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. The cost of Page 13 INVESTORS CAPITAL HOLDINGS LTD - 10-K Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2007 compliance with many of these requirements is substantial, not only in absolute terms, but in relation to the overall scope of the operations of our business. Failure to comply with these requirements can have numerous adverse consequences including, such as our inability to file required reports on a timely basis, loss of market confidence, delisting of our securities and/or governmental or private actions against us. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with all of these requirements in the future or that the cost of such compliance will not prove to be a substantial competitive disadvantage vis-avis our competitors. As a provider of financial services, we are subject to substantial governmental regulation. As a broker-dealer and investment adviser, our business is subject to a variety of federal securities laws, and rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, including the Securities Act of 1933, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and the U.S. Patriot Act of 2001. In addition, we are subject to significant regulation and oversight by, among others, the SEC, NASD and state broker-dealer, investor advisory and insurance regulators. The principal purpose of such regulation typically is protection of the public, rather than protection of creditors and stockholders of financial services companies, and efforts taken to comply with such regulation is a costly but necessary burden on companies engaged in the financial services industry. Changes in these legal, regulatory, accounting, tax and compliance requirements could have a significant effect on our operations and results, including, but not limited to, increased expenses and reduced investor interest in investment products and services offered by us. Any failure to maintain adequate internal controls could result in regulatory sanctions that could result in substantial fines and restrictions on our ability to make money. In the past our subsidiary broker-dealer, due to an accounting error, found itself inadvertently out compliance with its required net capital reserve, requiring an unanticipated capital infusion from ICH. While no regulatory action was taken against us in this instance, any failure to maintain adequate accounting procedures and internal controls could result in regulatory sanctions being applied against us that could require us to pay substantial fines and severely restrict or even terminate our ability to make money. Any failure by our independent investment professionals to comply with regulatory requirements may cause us to incur losses or suffer substantial harm to our business and operations. Our investment professionals are required by law to be licensed with our subsidiaries as registered broker-dealer representatives and/or investment adviser representatives. Pursuant to these requirements, these investment professionals are subject to our supervision in the area of compliance with applicable federal and state securities laws, rules and regulations, as well as the rules and regulations of self-regulatory organizations such as the NASD. The violation of any regulatory requirements by us or our investment professionals could jeopardize our broker-dealer or investment adviser license and could subject us to fines, liability to customers, censure or even loss of license. As an example, an administrative complaint brought by the Massachusetts Securities Division, that alleged failure by ICC to adequately supervise sales of equity-indexed annuities by certain of its independent representatives, recently resulted in a settlement that included an obligation to pay at least $1 million in fines and customer restitutions, censure and a comprehensive review of our compliance and corporate governance systems and processes. Although we constantly strive to strengthen our already robust compliance procedures, there can be no assurance that there will not be further such administrative proceedings with equal or greater material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Legal Proceedings The financial services industry is subject to an increasing risk of legal proceedings. Many aspects of our business subject us to substantial risks of potential liability to customers and enforcement proceedings by state and federal regulators. Participants in the securities industry face an increasing amount of litigation and arbitration proceedings. Dissatisfied clients regularly make claims against securities firms for negligence, fraud, unauthorized trading and suitability, among other claims. Acts of fraud by independent representatives and others are often difficult to detect and deter, and we cannot assure investors that our risk management procedures and controls will prevent losses from fraudulent activity. Page 14 INVESTORS CAPITAL HOLDINGS LTD - 10-K Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2007 There can be no assurance that the defense and resolution of such claims will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Actual or alleged fraud and misconduct by investment professionals and employees has resulted in, and exposes us to an ongoing potential for, litigation and regulatory sanctions that could substantially harm our business and results of operations. Employees and investment professionals constantly expose us to the risk of significant losses as a result of employee errors, professional misconduct and fraud. Such misconduct could include binding us to transactions that exceed authorized limits or present unacceptable risks, or hiding from us unauthorized, unsuccessful or improper activities. It is not always possible to deter employee or independent contractor misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. We are routinely involved in legal proceedings that can burden our resources and pose an ongoing risk of adverse dispositions that could negatively impact our earnings and profits. By the nature of our business, we are continually involved with various judicial, regulatory and arbitration proceedings concerning matters arising in connection with the conduct of our business. At March 31, 2007, the Company was co-defendant with independent representatives in several arbitration and/or other legal proceedings with claims totaling approximately $3.2 million. Although we currently have insurance that may limit our exposure in these cases, if we are found liable in material amounts in these or other legal proceedings, such eventuality may result in restricting the availability and/or increasing the cost of insurance against such risks and may have a significant adverse effect on our earnings and profits. Consumer fraud could harm our earnings and profits by requiring us to expend time and money and exposing us to financial loss and the potential for arbitration or other legal proceedings. We are constantly exposed to the risk of significant losses as a result of customer fraud. Activities such as authorizing trades and not accepting those trades if anticipated stock movement is not achieved, paying for transactions with bad funds, or improperly stating investment experience, net worth and income amount and tolerance for risk, could result in the expenditure of Company resources as well as exposure to potential losses through arbitration or other legal proceedings. Operations & Infrastructure Our operations and infrastructure, and those of service providers upon which we rely, may malfunction or fail. Our business is highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions, using both in-house and out-sourced systems such as those maintained by our third-party clearing firm. The inability of these systems to accommodate ever increasing volumes of transactions could constrain our ability to expand our business. If any of these systems do not operate properly or are disabled, or if there are other shortcomings or failures in our internal processes, people or systems, we could suffer impairments, financial loss, a disruption of our business, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. We also face the risk of disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business, such as power grids and communications networks. Any change in our clearing firm could result in our inability to process transactions in a timely manner which could adversely affect our business operations and profits. Our current clearing agreement is with Pershing LLC, an affiliate of The Bank of New York Company, Inc., which processes most non-check and application securities transactions for our account and the accounts of our customers. We also rely on our clearing firm for our Internet equity securities trading activities, which is a growing portion of our business. Our agreement with Pershing may be terminated by either party on ninety days written notice. A change in our clearing firm could result in the inability of our customers to transact business in a timely manner due to delays and errors in the transfer of their accounts, which, on a temporary basis, could affect our earnings and profits. Organization Page 15 INVESTORS CAPITAL HOLDINGS LTD - 10-K Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2007 Management’s ownership of our common stock assures their control of corporation actions requiring a shareholder vote. Chairman Ted Charles, individually, and the Company's executive officers as a whole, beneficially own in the aggregate a majority of the Company's common stock. Accordingly, they are able to determine the outcome of virtually all corporate actions requiring approval by the stockholders of the Company, including, without limitation, the election of directors and the approval of the sale of the Company or its assets. Any loss of our senior management could adversely affect our business and financial condition through the loss of significant business relationships that may not be easily recreated. Our success is largely dependent on the skills, experience and performance of Theodore E. Charles, our chairman, chief executive officer and president whose long-term relationships with our investment professionals and product sponsors has been and continues to be a driving force behind our success, and Timothy B. Murphy, our executive vice president, treasurer and chief financial officer as well as the president of our broker-dealer subsidiary. The loss of Messrs. Charles and/or Murphy or other senior management could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any loss of key personnel could adversely affect our business. Except for our CEO and CFO, our key employees do not have employment contracts, and generally can terminate their employment at any time. Similarly, our independent representatives are not contractually prevented from terminating their affiliation with us at will. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain or replace key in-house personnel or independent investment professionals. The loss of key personnel or independent representatives could damage our reputation and make it more difficult to retain and attract new employees, representatives or clients. A net loss of high-producing independent representatives could result in decreases in transactional fees as well as fees based on assets under management. On the other hand, replacement of any of key human resources may entail an increase in compensation costs that would decrease our net income. We will continue to endeavor to understand, evaluate and, when possible, manage and control these and other business risks. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The following sets forth, as of June 29, 2007, certain information with respect to each of the executive officers of ICH: Theodore E. Charles, age 64, principal executive officer. A founder of Investors Capital Holdings, Mr. Charles has served as the Company’s chairman of the board, chief executive officer and president since its inception in 1995. Mr. Charles also has served as the chief executive officer of our subsidiaries, Investors Capital Corporation (“ICC”) and Eastern Point Advisors, Inc (“EPA”) since their founding in 1994 and 1995, respectively. Mr. Charles served on the Board of Directors of Revere Savings Bank of Massachusetts from 1997 to 2001 and served on the Advisory Board of Danvers Savings Bank from 2001 to 2003. Mr. Charles currently holds various securities licenses, including series 6, 63, 7 and 24, has been a member of the Financial Planning Association since 1985 and formerly served as Chairman of the Shareholder Advisory Board of Life USA Insurance Company. Mr. Charles is currently on the Board of Easter Seals of Massachusetts. Timothy B. Murphy, age 42, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer. A founder of the Company, Mr. Murphy has served as executive vice president, treasurer and chief financial officer of the Company since its inception, and as president of its subsidiaries, ICC and EPA, since their respective inceptions. He entered the securities industry in 1991 as an operations manager in the Boston regional office of Clayton Securities. By 1994, he was serving as compliance officer of Baybanks Brokerage and Page 16 INVESTORS CAPITAL HOLDINGS LTD - 10-K Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2007 a vice president of G.R. Stuart & Company, another brokerage firm. Mr. Murphy holds various securities licenses including series 4, 7, 24, 27, 53, 63 and 65. Steven C. Preskenis, age 37. Mr. Preskenis has served as Chief Operating Officer of ICC, and has performed similar policy-making functions for ICH, since February 2006. Mr. Preskenis, who joined the Company in August 2000 as a compliance attorney, also has served as General Counsel of ICC, and has performed similar functions for ICH, since March 2003, and has served as Secretary of ICH since September 2005. Prior to joining ICC in August 2000, Mr. Preskenis served as an Alternative Dispute Resolution attorney with John Hancock Life Insurance Company commencing in 1998. Mr. Preskenis is a member of the Massachusetts Bar and a graduate of Suffolk University Law School. Mr. Preskenis currently holds securities licenses, including series 7 and 24. 