Item 1A. Risk Factors The following significant factors, as well as others of which we are unaware or deem to be immaterial at this time, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results in the future. Therefore, the following information should be considered carefully together with other information contained in this report. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Economic weakness and uncertainty and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, could adversely impact the Company’s revenue, operating income and other financial results. • The tightening of the credit markets, disruption in the financial markets, and global economic recession that began in late 2008 contributed to a significant economic downturn in the imaging industry. Although economic and market conditions have improved, continuing difficulties in the financial markets and global economic uncertainty could adversely affect the Company’s results in future periods. During an economic downturn, demand for the Company’s products may decrease. Restrictions on credit globally and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations in certain countries may impact economic activity and the Company’s results. Credit risk associated with the Company’s customers, channel partners and the Company’s investment portfolio may also be adversely impacted. The interest rate environment and general economic conditions could also impact the investment income the Company is able to earn on its investment portfolio. • Continued softness in certain markets and industries, constrained IT spending, and uncertainty about global economic conditions could result in lower demand for the Company’s products, including supplies. Weakness in demand has resulted in intense price competition and may result in excessive inventory for the Company and/or its reseller channel, which may adversely affect sales, pricing, risk of obsolescence and/or other elements of the Company’s operating results. Ongoing weakness in demand for the Company’s hardware products may also cause erosion of the 15 Table of Contents installed base of products over time, thereby reducing the opportunities for supplies sales in the future. The competitive pricing pressure in the market may negatively impact the Company’s operating results. • The Company and its major competitors, many of which have significantly greater financial, marketing and/or technological resources than the Company, have regularly lowered prices on their products and are expected to continue to do so. In particular, both the inkjet and laser printer markets have experienced and are expected to continue to experience significant price pressure. Price reductions on inkjet or laser products, including related supplies or the inability to reduce costs and expenses, could result in lower profitability and jeopardize the Company’s ability to grow or maintain its market share. In recent years, the gross margins on the Company’s hardware products have been under pressure as a result of competitive pricing pressures in the market. If the Company is unable to reduce costs to offset this competitive pricing or product mix pressure, and the Company is unable to support declining gross margins through the sale of supplies, the Company’s operating results and future profitability may be negatively impacted. The Company’s ability to be successful in shifting its strategy and selling its products into the higher-usage segments of the inkjet market could adversely affect future operating results. • The Company is continuing its transition into the higher-usage segments of the inkjet market. The Company’s future operating results may be adversely affected if it is unable to successfully market and sell its high-end inkjet printers designed for small to medium-sized business, as well as develop and manufacture additional products, designed for the geographic and customer and product segments of the inkjet market that support higher usage of supplies. The Company’s failure to manage inventory levels or production capacity may negatively impact the Company’s operating results. • The Company’s performance depends in part upon its ability to successfully forecast the timing and extent of customer demand and reseller demand to manage worldwide distribution and inventory levels of the Company. Unexpected fluctuations (up or down) in customer demand or in reseller inventory levels could disrupt ordering patterns and may adversely affect the Company’s financial results, inventory levels and cash flows. In addition, the financial failure or loss of a key customer, reseller or supplier could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial results. The Company must also be able to address production and supply constraints, including product disruptions caused by quality issues, and delays or disruptions in the supply of key components necessary for production. Such delays, disruptions or shortages may result in lost revenue or in the Company incurring additional costs to meet customer demand. The Company’s future operating results and its ability to effectively grow or maintain its market share may be adversely affected if it is unable to address these issues on a timely basis. Conflicts among various sales channels and the loss of shelf space may negatively impact the Company’s operating results. • The Company markets and sells its products through several sales channels. The Company has also advanced a strategy of forming alliances and OEM arrangements with many companies. The Company’s future operating results may be adversely affected by any conflicts that might arise between or among its various sales channels, the volume reduction in or loss of any alliance or OEM arrangement or the loss of shelf space. 16 Table of Contents The revenue and profitability of our operations have historically varied, which makes our future financial results less predictable. • Our revenue, gross margin and profit vary among our hardware, supplies and services, product groups and geographic markets and therefore will likely be different in future periods than our current results. Overall gross margins and profitability in any given period is dependent upon the hardware/supplies mix, the mix of hardware products sold, and the geographic mix reflected in that period’s revenue. Overall market trends, seasonal market trends, competitive pressures, pricing, commoditization of products, increased component or shipping costs and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins in a given period. The Company may experience difficulties in product transitions negatively impacting the Company’s performance and operating results. • The introduction of products by the Company or its competitors, or delays in customer purchases of existing products in anticipation of new product introductions by the Company or its competitors and market acceptance of new products and pricing programs, any disruption in the supply of new or existing products as well as the costs of any product recall or increased warranty, repair or replacement costs due to quality issues, the reaction of competitors to any such new products or programs, the life cycles of the Company’s products, as well as delays in product development and manufacturing, and variations in cost, including but not limited to component parts, raw materials, commodities, energy, products, labor rates, distributors, fuel and variations in supplier terms and conditions, may impact sales, may cause a buildup in the Company’s inventories, make the transition from current products to new products difficult and could adversely affect the Company’s future operating results. The Company’s inability to develop new products and enhance existing products to meet customer product requirements on a cost competitive basis may negatively impact the Company’s operating results. • The Company’s future operating results may be adversely affected if it is unable to continue to develop, manufacture and market products that are reliable, competitive, and meet customers’ needs. The markets for laser and inkjet products and associated supplies are aggressively competitive, especially with respect to pricing and the introduction of new technologies and products offering improved features and functionality. In addition, the introduction of any significant new and/or disruptive technology or business model by a competitor that substantially changes the markets into which the Company sells its products or demand for the products sold by the Company could severely impact sales of the Company’s products and the Company’s operating results. The impact of competitive activities on the sales volumes or revenue of the Company, or the Company’s inability to effectively deal with these competitive issues, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to attract and retain OEM customers, maintain or grow retail shelf space or maintain or grow market share. The competitive pressure to develop technology and products and to increase the Company’s investment in research and development and marketing expenditures also could cause significant changes in the level of the Company’s operating expense. Decreased consumption of supplies could negatively impact the Company’s operating results. • The Company’s future operating results may be adversely affected if the consumption of its supplies by end users of its products is lower than expected or declines, if there are declines in pricing, unfavorable mix and/or increased costs. • Changes of printing behavior driven by adoption of electronic processes and/or use of mobile devices such as tablets and smart phones by businesses could result in a reduction in printing, which could adversely impact consumption of supplies. 17 Table of Contents Any failure by the Company to execute planned cost reduction measures timely and successfully could result in total costs and expenses that are greater than expected or the failure to meet operational goals as a result of such actions. • The Company has undertaken cost reduction measures over the last few years in an effort to optimize the Company’s cost and expense structure. Such actions have included workforce reductions, the consolidation of facilities, operations functions and manufacturing capacity, and the centralization of support functions to regional and global shared service centers. In particular, the Company’s manufacturing and support functions are becoming more heavily concentrated in China and the Philippines. The Company expects to realize cost savings in the future through these actions and may announce future actions to further reduce its worldwide workforce and/or centralize its operations. The risks associated with these actions include potential delays in their implementation, particularly workforce reductions; increased costs associated with such actions; decreases in employee morale and the failure to meet operational targets due to unplanned departures of employees, particularly key employees and sales employees. Changes in the Company’s tax provisions or tax liabilities could negatively impact the Company’s profitability. • The Company’s future income taxes could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions where the Company has lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions where the Company has higher statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of the Company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities, as a result of gains on the management of the Company’s foreign exchange risks, or changes in tax laws, regulations, and accounting principles. The Company is subject to regular review and audit by both domestic and foreign tax authorities. Any adverse outcome of such a review or audit could have a negative effect on the Company’s operating results and financial condition. • In addition, the determination of the Company’s worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment, and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although the Company, and its legal and financial advisors, believe the Company’s estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in the Company’s financial statements and may materially affect the Company’s financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. A material assessment by a taxing authority or a decision to repatriate foreign cash could adversely affect the Company’s profitability. Due to the international nature of our business, changes in a country’s or region’s political or economic conditions or other factors could negatively impact the Company’s revenue, financial condition or operating results. • Revenue derived from international sales make up more than half of the Company’s revenue. Accordingly, the Company’s future results could be adversely affected by a variety of factors, including changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, trade protection measures and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements. In addition, changes in tax laws and the ability to repatriate cash accumulated outside the U.S. in a tax efficient manner may adversely affect the Company’s financial results, investment flexibility and operations. Moreover, margins on international sales tend to be lower than those on domestic sales, and the Company believes that international operations in emerging geographic markets will be less profitable than operations in the U.S. and European markets, in part, because of the higher investment levels for marketing, selling and distribution required to enter these markets. • In many foreign countries, particularly those with developing economies, it is common for local business practices to be prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to the Company, such as 18 Table of Contents employment laws, fair trade laws or the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Although the Company implements policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those business partners to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. Any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have a material adverse effect on our business and our reputation. Because of the challenges in managing a geographically dispersed workforce, there also may be additional opportunities for employees to commit fraud or personally engage in practices which violate the policies and procedures of the Company. The failure of the Company’s information technology systems, or its failure to successfully implement new information technology systems, may negatively impact the Company’s operating results. • The Company depends on its information technology systems for the development, manufacture, distribution, marketing, sales and support of its products and services. Any failure in such systems, or the systems of a partner or supplier, may adversely affect the Company’s operating results. The Company also may not be successful in implementing new systems or transitioning data, including a current project to implement a new enterprise-wide system. Because vast quantities of the Company’s products flow through only a few distribution centers to provide product to various geographic regions, the failure of information technology systems or any other disruption affecting those product distribution centers could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s ability to deliver product and on the Company’s financial results. Any failure by the Company to successfully centralize certain of its support functions may disrupt these functions and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s systems of internal control and financial reporting. • The Company is continuing the process of centralizing certain of its accounting and other finance functions and order-to-cash functions from various countries to shared service centers. The Company is also continuing the process of reducing, consolidating and moving various parts of its general and administrative resource, supply chain resource and marketing and sales support structure. Many of these processes and functions are moving to lower-cost countries, including China, Hungary, India and the Philippines. Any disruption in these systems, processes or functions could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s operations, its financial results, its systems of internal controls and its ability to accurately record and report transactions and financial results. The Company’s reliance on international production facilities, international manufacturing partners and certain key suppliers could negatively impact the Company’s operating results. • The Company relies in large part on its international production facilities and international manufacturing partners, many of which are located in China and the Philippines, for the manufacture of its products and key components of its products. Future operating results may also be adversely affected by several other factors, including, without limitation, if the Company’s international operations or manufacturing partners are unable to perform or supply products reliably, if there are disruptions in international trade, trade restrictions, import duties, “Buy American” constraints, disruptions at important geographic points of exit and entry, if there are difficulties in transitioning such manufacturing activities among the Company, its international operations and/or its manufacturing partners, or if there arise production and supply constraints which result in additional costs to the Company. The financial failure or loss of a sole supplier or significant supplier of products or key components, or their inability to produce the required quantities, could result in a material adverse impact on the Company’s operating results. 19 Table of Contents The entrance of additional competitors that are focused on printing solutions and software solutions, including ECM solutions, could negatively impact the Company’s strategy and operating results. • The entrance of additional competitors that are focused on printing solutions could further intensify competition in the inkjet and laser printer markets and could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s strategy and financial results. • The Company acquired Perceptive Software in 2010 to strengthen its industry workflow solutions and to compete in the ECM and document-process automation software solutions market and the entrance of additional competitors that are focused on ECM solutions could materially impact the Company’s strategy to expand in this market and adversely affect the Company’s financial results. The Company may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of any investments, acquisitions or other significant transactions, which could harm our financial results. • As part of our business strategy, the Company routinely discusses, evaluates opportunities, and may enter into agreements regarding possible investments, acquisitions, and other transactions. Such transactions, including our acquisition of Perceptive Software, routinely involve significant risks and challenges and the Company may not be able to realize all of the anticipated benefits of such transactions. The Company may not be able to identify suitable opportunities on terms acceptable to the Company. The transaction may fail to advance the Company’s business strategy. The Company may not realize a satisfactory return on our investment. The Company may not be able to obtain regulatory or other approvals required for the transaction. The future business operations of an acquired entity may not be successful. The Company may not be able to retain customers and key employees of an acquired entity. The Company may not be able to realize expense synergies and revenue expansion goals. Disruptions from the transaction could harm relationships with the Company’s or the acquired entity’s existing customers, business partners, employees and suppliers. The Company may face a difficult time integrating new employees, business systems and technology. Intangible assets and goodwill recognized by the Company in the acquisition could become impaired if subsequent measurements of fair value and implied value, respectively, do not support the carrying values of such assets. The Company’s inability to perform satisfactorily under service contracts for managed print services may negatively impact the Company’s strategy and operating results. • The Company’s inability to perform satisfactorily under service contracts for managed print services and other customer services may result in the loss of customers, loss of reputation and/or financial consequences that may have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial results and strategy. Increased competition in the Company’s aftermarket supplies business may negatively impact the Company’s revenue and gross margins. • Refill, remanufactured, clones, counterfeits and other compatible alternatives for some of the Company’s cartridges are available and compete with the Company’s supplies business. The Company expects competitive supplies activity to increase. Various legal challenges and governmental activities may intensify competition for the Company’s aftermarket supplies business. New legislation, fees on the Company’s products or litigation costs required to protect the Company’s rights may negatively impact the Company’s cost structure, access to components and operating results. • Certain countries (primarily in Europe) and/or collecting societies representing copyright owners’ interests have commenced proceedings to impose fees on devices (such as scanners, printers and multifunction devices) alleging the copyright owners are entitled to compensation because these devices enable reproducing copyrighted content. Other countries are also considering imposing fees on certain devices. The amount of fees, if imposed, would depend on the number of products 20 Table of Contents sold and the amounts of the fee on each product, which will vary by product and by country. The financial impact on the Company, which will depend in large part upon the outcome of local legislative processes, the Company’s and other industry participants’ outcome in contesting the fees and the Company’s ability to mitigate that impact by increasing prices, which ability will depend upon competitive market conditions, remains uncertain. The outcome of the copyright fee issue could adversely affect the Company’s operating results and business. The Company’s inability to obtain and protect its intellectual property and defend against claims of infringement by others may negatively impact the Company’s operating results. • The Company’s success depends in part on its ability to develop technology and obtain patents, copyrights and trademarks, and maintain trade secret protection, to protect its intellectual property against theft, infringement or other misuse by others. The Company must also conduct its operations without infringing the proprietary rights of others. Current or future claims of intellectual property infringement could prevent the Company from obtaining technology of others and could otherwise materially and adversely affect its operating results or business, as could expenses incurred by the Company in obtaining intellectual property rights, enforcing its intellectual property rights against others or defending against claims that the Company’s products infringe the intellectual property rights of others, that the Company engages in false or deceptive practices or that its conduct is anti-competitive. The inability to attract, retain and motivate key employees could adversely affect the Company’s operating results. • In order to compete, the Company must attract, retain, and motivate executives and other key employees, and its failure to do so could harm the Company’s results of operations. Hiring and retaining qualified executives, engineers, technical staff, sales, marketing and IT support positions are critical to the Company’s business, and competition for experienced employees in our industry can be intense. To help attract, retain, and motivate qualified employees, the Company must offer a competitive compensation package, including cash, cash-based incentive awards and share-based incentive awards, such as restricted stock units. Because the cash-based and share-based incentive awards are dependent upon the performance conditions relating to the Company’s performance and the performance of the price of the Company’s common stock, the future value of such awards are uncertain. If the anticipated value of such incentive awards do not materialize, or if the total compensation package ceases to be viewed as competitive, the Company’s ability to attract, retain, and motivate employees could be weakened, which could harm the Company’s results of operations. Business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. • Our worldwide operations and those of our manufacturing partners, suppliers, and freight transporters, among others, are subject to natural and manmade disasters and other business interruptions such as earthquakes, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, environmental hazards, power shortages, water shortages and telecommunications failures. The occurrence of any of these business disruptions could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. As the Company continues its consolidation of certain functions into shared service centers and movement of certain functions to lower cost countries, the probability and impact of business disruptions may be increased over time. 21 Table of Contents Terrorist acts, acts of war or other political conflicts may negatively impact the Company’s ability to manufacture and sell its products. • Terrorist attacks and the potential for future terrorist attacks have created many political and economic uncertainties, some of which may affect the Company’s future operating results. Future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to such attacks, and other acts of war or hostility may affect the Company’s facilities, employees, suppliers, customers, transportation networks and supply chains, or may affect the Company in ways that are not capable of being predicted presently. Any variety of factors unrelated to the Company’s operating performance may negatively impact the Company’s operating results or the Company’s stock price. • Factors unrelated to the Company’s operating performance, including the financial failure or loss of significant customers, resellers, manufacturing partners or suppliers; the outcome of pending and future litigation or governmental proceedings; and the ability to retain and attract key personnel, could also adversely affect the Company’s operating results. In addition, the Company’s stock price, like that of other technology companies, can be volatile. Trading activity in the Company’s common stock, particularly the trading of large blocks and intraday trading in the Company’s common stock, may affect the Company’s common stock price. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 