Risk Factors. You should carefully consider these risk factors in evaluating the Company. In addition to the following risks, there may also be risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial that may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, results of operation or financial condition could be adversely affected, the trading price of our common stock could decline and shareholders might lose all or part of their investment. The Company has risks associated with its purchase of $6.9 billion in face value of receivable purchase for $300 million in March 2007 (the “Portfolio Purchase”) On February 5, 2007, Palisades Acquisition XV, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, entered into a Purchase and Sale Agreement (the “Portfolio Purchase Agreement”) with Great Seneca Financial Corporation, Platinum Financial Services Corporation, Monarch Capital Corporation, Colonial Credit Corporation, Centurion Capital Corporation, Sage Financial Corporation and Hawker Financial Corporation (collectively, the “Sellers”), under which we agreed to acquire the Portfolio Purchase for a purchase price of $300 million plus 20% of any future Net Payments (as defined in the Portfolio Purchase Agreement) received by the Company after the Company has received Net Payments equal to 150% of the purchase price plus our cost of funds. The Portfolio Purchase (now owned by our subsidiary Palisades Acquisition XVI, LLC (“Palisades XVI”)) predominantly consists of credit card accounts and includes some accounts in collection litigation and accounts as to which the Sellers have been awarded judgments. The transaction was consummated on March 5, 2007. Under the Portfolio Purchase Agreement, we assumed certain risks associated with the Portfolio Purchase. The representations and warranties with respect to the Portfolio which we received from the Sellers have limitations both in scope and, in certain cases, duration, including a limitation of our put-back rights with respect to certain types of claims, a requirement that certain claims be brought within 120 days of closing or be deemed waived, and a limitation with respect to the Sellers’ responsibilities for acts of prior owners. Other than the representations contained in the Portfolio Purchase Agreement, the accounts were sold as is. We may not have an adequate remedy against the sellers if our understandings about the quality, quantity and characteristics of the Accounts in the Portfolio prove to be contrary to our expectations. Recent amendments to our credit agreements increase our risk and potential loss and will limit our ability to purchase portfolios. Since the Portfolio Purchase in March 2007, Palisades XVI has not performed well with respect to the Receivables Financing Agreement with the Bank of Montreal (“BMO”). In September 2007, Palisades XVI was 12 Table of Contents required to remit an additional $13.1 million to BMO in order to be in compliance with its repayment obligations. We purchased a portion of this Portfolio from Palisades XVI at a price of $13.1 million, giving Palisades XVI the ability to make this payment. In December 2007, Palisades XVI entered into an amendment of the Receivables Financing Agreement to extend the required repayment schedule. Again in May 2008, as a result of collections being slower than anticipated at the time of the December 2007 amendment, Palisades XVI and BMO amended the Receivables Financing Agreement to further extend the repayment schedule. In addition, on May 19, 2008, the Company entered into an amended and restated servicing agreement among Palisades XVI, Palisades Collection, L.L.C. and BMO (the “Service Agreement”). The amendment calls for increased documentation, responsibilities and approvals of subservicers engaged by Palisades Collection L.L.C. On February 20, 2009, Palisades XVI entered into the fourth amendment to the Receivables Financing Agreement (the “Fourth Amendment”) to further extend the required payment schedule in light of continued lower level of collections. As an inducement to BMO to enter into such an amendment, the Company agreed to provide BMO with an $8 million limited secured subordinated guaranty of Palisades XVI’s performance, which may constrain future borrowing ability. On February 20, 2009, the Company entered into the Seventh Amendment to Fourth Amended and Restated Loan Agreement with a consortium of banks (the “Bank Group”) that, among other changes, lowers the level of borrowing from $175 million to a low of $80 million at June 30, 2009 while in the short term, we maintain the same level of borrowing availability (approximately $20 million) as a result of recent normal pay down of the loan. In the longer term this reduction in the line will limit our ability to purchase portfolios and grow. In addition, individual portfolio purchases in excess of $7.5 million will now require the consent of the collateral agent of the Bank Group, Israel Discount Bank (the “Collateral Agent”) and portfolio purchases in excess of $15.0 million in the aggregate during any 120 day period will require the consent of the Bank Group which may limit our ability to purchase portfolios and grow. The anticipated benefits of the Portfolio Purchase have not and may not meet our expectations. The Portfolio Purchase increased our assets acquired for liquidation by more than 100%, so that our future operating results became highly dependent on the returns realized from the Portfolio Purchase. While we believed that we had the capability to manage such a significantly increased asset base, no assurances can be given that we will not experience operational difficulties internally or with our third party collection agencies and attorneys in managing an asset base of this size. Further, the returns on the Portfolio Purchase have not proved to be as favorable as our historic returns on smaller portfolio purchases. The Portfolio Purchase has not met our initial expectations, and the shortfall has been exacerbated by the general economic down turn. We have suffered impairments in our portfolios of $53.2 million in 2008, compared to $9.1 million in 2007, and $2.2 million in 2006. Of these overall impairment losses, $30.3 million was attributed to the Portfolio Purchase in fiscal year 2008. Further, in the third quarter ending June 30, 2008, we discontinued using the interest method for income recognition under AICPA Statement of Position 03-3, “Accounting for Loans or Certain Securities Acquired in a Transfer” (“SOP 03-3”) for the Portfolio Purchase. Accordingly, we will recognize income only after we recover our carrying value, which, as of September 30, 2008, was approximately $207 million. As a result, our revenue in the future will be negatively impacted. There can be no assurance as to when or if the carrying value will be recovered. We incurred substantial debt in connection with the Portfolio Purchase Agreement. The BMO Facility has been amended on a number of occasions and has required additional credit support from the Company. To finance the Portfolio Purchase, we incurred substantial indebtedness. We utilized substantially all of the availability under our existing $175 million credit facility (including a temporary $15 million increase in the line) to make $75 million in deposit payments. The remaining $225 million of the purchase price was paid in full at the closing of the Portfolio Purchase on March 5, 2007, by borrowing approximately $227 million (inclusive of transaction costs) under a Receivables Financing Agreement entered into by Palisades XVI, with BMO as the funding source, consisting of debt with full recourse only to Palisades XVI (the “BMO Facility”). The original term of the Receivables Financing Agreement 13 Table of Contents was three years. All assets of Palisades XVI, principally the Portfolio Purchase, were pledged to secure such borrowing, and all proceeds received as a result of the net collections from this Portfolio Purchase are applied to interest and principal of the underlying loan. The Company made certain representations and warranties to the lender to support the transaction. As of September 30, 2008 the balance due on the Receivables Financing Agreement was $128.6 million. As of September 30, 2007, Palisades XVI was required to remit an additional $13.1 million to BMO in order to be in compliance under the Receivables Financing Agreement. The Company facilitated the ability of Palisades XVI to make this payment by borrowing $13.1 million under its current revolving credit facility and causing another of its subsidiaries to purchase a portion of the Portfolio Purchase from Palisades XVI at a price of $13.1 million prior to the measurement date under the Receivables Financing Agreement. The Receivables Financing Agreement required that the principal amount thereunder be reduced under a schedule tied to projected collections on the Portfolio Purchase. As we fell behind the minimum required amortization schedule, principally as a result of sales of accounts that were built into that schedule, but that we did not effect, the Company and BMO entered into an amendment dated December 27, 2007. The amendment substantially eliminated any scheduled sales of accounts used in the original projections and effectively extended the repayment schedule from 25 months to 31 months. On May 19, 2008, Palisades XVI entered into the third amendment of its Receivables Financing Agreement. As the actual collections on the Portfolio Purchase continued to be slower than the minimum collections scheduled under the second amendment, the lender and Palisades XVI agreed to an extension to the amortization schedule determined in connection with the second amendment. The lender also increased the interest rate from approximately 170 basis points to approximately 320 basis points over LIBOR, subject to automatic reduction in the future if additional capital contributions are made by the parent of Palisades XVI. As a result of the actual collections being lower than the minimum collection rates required under the Receivables Financing Agreement for the months ended November 30, 2008, December 31, 2008 and January 31, 2009, termination events occurred under the Receivables Financing Agreement. In order to resolve these issues, on February 20, 2009, we executed the Fourth Amendment to the Receivables Financing Agreement with BMO. The effect of this Fourth Amendment is, among other things, to (i) lower the collection rate minimum to $1 million per month as an average for each period of three consecutive months, (ii) provide for an automatic extension of the maturity date from April 30, 2011 to April 30, 2012 should the outstanding balance be reduced to $25 million or less by April 30, 2011 and (iii) permanently waive the previous termination events. The interest rate will remain unchanged at approximately 320 basis points over LIBOR, subject to automatic reduction in the future should certain collection milestones be attained. As additional credit support for repayment by Palisades XVI of its obligations under the Receivables Financing Agreement and as an inducement for BMO to enter into the Fourth Amendment, the Company offered BMO a limited recourse, subordinated guaranty, secured by the assets of the Company, in an amount not to exceed $8 million plus reasonable costs of enforcement and collection. Under the terms of the guaranty, BMO cannot exercise any recourse against the Company until the earlier of (i) five years from the date of the Fourth Amendment and (ii) the termination of the Company’s existing senior lending facility or any successor senior facility. In addition, as further credit support under the Receivables Financing Agreement, Asta Group Inc. (“the Family Entity”) offered BMO a limited recourse, subordinated guaranty, secured solely by a collateral assignment of $700,000 of the $8.2 million subordinated note executed by the Company for the benefit of the Family Entity. The subordinated note was separated into a $700,000 note and a $7.5 million note for such purpose. Under the terms of the guaranty, unless the terms of the arrangement are not met, BMO cannot exercise any recourse against the Family Entity until the occurrence of a termination event under the Receivables Financing Agreement and an undertaking of reasonable efforts to dispose of Palisades XVI’s assets. As an inducement for agreeing to make such collateral assignment, the Family Entity was also granted a subordinated guaranty by the Company (other than Asta Funding, Inc.) for the performance by Asta Funding, Inc. of its obligation to repay the $8.2 million, secured by the assets of the Company (other than Asta Funding, Inc.), and the Company agreed to indemnify the Family Entity to the extent that BMO exercises recourse in connection with the collateral assignment. Without the consent of the agent under the senior lending facility, the Family Entity will not be permitted to act on such guaranty, and cannot receive 14 Table of Contents payment under such indemnity, until the termination of the Company’s senior lending facility or lenders under any successor senior facility. As a result of the Company’s current capital structure and their interrelated components, it may be difficult to obtain new financing. We are highly leveraged and may incur further debt in the future which could adversely affect our ability to obtain additional funds. To finance the Portfolio Purchase, we needed to incur substantial indebtedness of over $300 million, inclusive of utilizing substantially all of the availability (approximately $25 million) under our existing $175 million credit facility. On December 4, 2007, we signed the Sixth Amendment to the Fourth Amended and Restated Loan Agreement with the Bank Group that temporarily increased the total revolving loan commitment from $175 million to $185 million. The temporary increase of $10 million, which was not used, was required to be repaid by February 29, 2008. Our ability to grow through this line was limited as we were approaching the upper limit of our borrowing availability. Because we have made limited purchases this year, we have paid down this line of credit to $84.9 million at September 30, 2008. On April 29, 2008, we obtained a subordinated loan pursuant to a subordinated promissory note from the Family Entity. The Family Entity is a greater than 5% shareholder of the Company beneficially owned and controlled by Arthur Stern, the Chairman of the Board of the Company, Gary Stern, the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, and members of their families. The loan is in the aggregate principal amount of approximately $8.2 million, bears interest at a rate of 6.25% per annum, is payable interest only each quarter until its maturity date of January 9, 2010, subject to prior repayment in full of the Company’s senior loan facility with the Bank Group. The subordinated loan was incurred by us to resolve certain issues described below. Proceeds from the Seventh Amendment to Fourth Amended and Restated Loan Agreement with the Bank Group subordinated loan were used initially to further collateralize the Company’s $175 million revolving loan facility with the Bank Group and was used to reduce the balance due on that facility as of May 31, 2008. This facility is secured by substantially all of the assets of the Company and its subsidiaries (the “Bank Group Collateral”), other than the assets of Palisades XVI, the entity that made the Portfolio Purchase. On February 20, 2009, the Company entered into the Seventh Amendment to the Fourth Amended and Restated Loan Agreement with the Bank Group (the “Seventh Amendment”) in order to, among other items, reduce the level of the loan commitment, redefine certain financial covenant ratios, revise the requirement for an unqualified opinion on annual audited financial statements, and permit certain encumbrances relating to restructuring of the BMO Facility. Pursuant to the Seventh Amendment, the loan commitment has been revised down from $175.0 million to the following schedule: (1) $90.0 million until March 30, 2009, (2) $85.0 million from March 31, 2009 through June 29, 2009, and (3) $80.0 million from June 30, 2009 and thereafter. Beginning with the fiscal year ending September 30, 2008 (and for each period included in calculating fixed charge coverage ratio for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2008) and continuing thereafter for each reporting period thereafter (and for each period included in calculating fixed charge coverage ratio for such reporting period), earnings before interest taxes depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”) and fixed charges attributable to Palisades XVI shall be excluded from the computation of the fixed charge coverage ratio for Asta Funding and its Subsidiaries. In addition, the fixed charge coverage has been revised to exclude impairment expense of portfolios of consumer receivables acquired for liquidation and increase the ratio from a minimum of 1.50 to1.0 to a minimum of 1.75 to 1.0. The permitted encumbrances under the Credit Agreement were revised to include certain encumbrances incurred by the Company in connection with certain guarantees and liens provided to BMO Facility and the Family Entity. Further, individual portfolio purchases in excess of $7.5 million will now require the consent of the agent and portfolio purchases in excess of $15.0 million in the aggregate during any 120 day period will require the consent of the Bank Group. The Company and the Bank Group are in the beginning phase of discussions to renew the current Loan Agreement. If, however, a renewal cannot be ultimately agreed to, the Company, at maturity, will consider the sale of assets collateralized by this loan agreement, to satisfy its obligations after July 11, 2009. 15 Table of Contents Business issues with a significant third party servicer (the “Servicer”) has led to the need to secure subordinated financing reduced purchases and other disruptions in the business relationship. The Servicer that provides servicing for certain portfolios within the Bank Group Collateral, was also engaged by Palisades Collection, LLC, the Company’s servicing subsidiary (“Palisades Collection”), after the acquisition of the Portfolio Purchase, to provide certain management services with respect to the portfolios owned by Palisades XVI and financed by the BMO Facility and to provide subservicing functions for portions of the Portfolio Purchase. Collections with respect to the Portfolio Purchase, and most portfolios purchased by the Company, lag the costs and fees which are expended to generate those collections, particularly when court costs are advanced to pursue an aggressive litigation strategy, as was the case with the Portfolio Purchase. Start-up cash flow issues with respect to the Portfolio Purchase were exacerbated by (a) collection challenges caused by the current economic environment, (b) the fact that Palisades Collection believed that it would be desirable to engage the Servicer to perform management services with respect to the Portfolio Purchase which services were not contemplated at the time of the initial acquisition of the Portfolio Purchase and (c) Palisades Collection believed it would be desirable to commence litigation and incur court costs at a faster rate than initially budgeted. As previously described in the Company’s Form 10-K and Form 10-K/A for the year ended September 30, 2007, the agreements with the Servicer call for a 3% fee on substantially all gross collections from the Portfolio Purchase on the first $500 million and 7% on substantially all gross collections from the Portfolio Purchase in excess of $500 million. Additionally, the Company pays the Servicer a monthly fee of $275,000 for twenty five months for consulting, asset identification and skiptracing efforts in connection with the Portfolio Purchase. The Servicer also receives a servicing fee with respect to those accounts it actually subservices. As the fees due to the Servicer for management and subservicing functions and the amounts spent for court costs were higher than those initially contemplated for subservicing functions, and as start-up collections with respect to the Portfolio Purchase were slower than initially projected, the amounts owed to the Servicer with respect to the Portfolio Purchase for fees and advances for court costs to pursue litigation against debtors have, from time to time, exceeded amounts available to pay the Servicer from collections received by the Servicer on the Portfolio Purchase on a current basis. The Company considered the effects of these trends on the Portfolio Purchase valuation. Rather than waiting for collections from the Portfolio Purchase to satisfy sums of approximately $8.2 million due the Servicer for court cost advances and its fees, the Servicer set-off that amount against amounts it had collected on behalf of the Company with respect to the Bank Group collateral. While the Servicer disagrees, the Company believes that those sums should have been remitted to the Bank Group without setoff. The Company determined to remedy any shortfall in the receipts under the Bank Group facility by obtaining the $8.2 million subordinated loan from the Family Entity and causing the proceeds of the loan to be delivered to the Bank Group and not to pursue a dispute with the Servicer at that time. The Company believed that avoiding a dispute with the Servicer was is in its best interests, as the Servicer should improve collections on the Portfolio Purchase over time. On April 29, 2008, the Company entered into a letter agreement with the Bank Group in which the Bank Group consented to the Subordinated Loan from the Family Entity. On January 18, 2009, the Company entered into amended agreements with the Servicer pursuant to which the Servicer agreed that it will not make any further set-offs against collections. We are highly leveraged which places constraints on our business and increases our vulnerability to economic and business downturns. By incurring such substantial indebtedness, as described above, and by incurring additional indebtedness from time to time in connection with the purchase of consumer receivable portfolios in the future, we are subject to the risks associated with incurring such indebtedness, including: • we are required to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flows from operations to pay debt service costs and, as a result, we will have less funds available for operations, future acquisitions of consumer receivable portfolios, and other purposes; • it may be more difficult and expensive to obtain additional funds through financings, if available at all; 16 Table of Contents • we are more vulnerable to economic downturns and fluctuations in interest rates, less able to withstand competitive pressures and less flexible in reacting to changes in our industry and general economic conditions; and • if we defaulted under our existing credit facilities or if our creditors demanded payment of a portion or all of our indebtedness, we may not have sufficient funds to make such payments. We have pledged all of our portfolios of consumer receivables to secure our borrowings and are subject to covenants that may restrict our ability to operate our business. As we borrow funds to purchase portfolios we may fully utilize our availability under that facility and no future borrowings are permitted under the new Receivables Financing Agreement. This may place us at a competitive disadvantage as compared to less leveraged companies. Any indebtedness that we incur under our existing line of credit is collateralized by all of our portfolios of consumer receivables acquired for liquidation, except the Portfolio Purchase only collateralizes the Receivables Financing Agreement. If we default under the indebtedness secured by our assets, including failure to comply with borrowing base requirements, those assets would be available to the secured creditor to satisfy our obligations to the secured creditor. In addition, our credit facility imposes certain restrictive covenants, including financial covenants and borrowing base requirements. Failure to satisfy any of these covenants could result in all or any of the following: • acceleration of the payment of our outstanding indebtedness; • cross defaults to and acceleration of the payment under other financing arrangements; • our inability to borrow additional amounts under our existing financing arrangements; and • our inability to secure financing on favorable terms or at all from alternative sources. Any of these consequences could adversely affect our ability to acquire consumer receivable portfolios and operate our business. The current economic environment has slowed our ability to collect from our debtors. The recent worldwide financial turmoil has adversely affected all businesses, including our own. The current collection environment is particularly challenging as a result of factors in the economy over which we have no control. These factors include: • A slowdown in the economy; • severe problems in the credit and housing markets; • higher unemployment; • reductions in consumer spending; • changes in the underwriting criteria by originators; and • changes in laws and regulations governing consumer lending and the related collections. We believe that our debtors are straining to pay their obligations owed to us. Higher unemployment rates particularly impact our debtors’ ability to pay obligations and our ability to get wage executions as a source of payment. Problems in the credit markets and lower home values have reduced the ability of our debtors to secure financing through second mortgages and home equity lines to pay obligations owed to us. A continuation of the current problems in the credit and housing markets and general slow down in the economy will continue to adversely affect the value of our portfolios and our financial performance. We may not be able to purchase consumer receivable portfolios at favorable prices or on sufficiently favorable terms or at all. Our success depends upon the continued availability of consumer receivable portfolios that meet our purchasing criteria and our ability to identify and finance the purchases of such portfolios. The availability of 17 Table of Contents consumer receivable portfolios at favorable prices and on terms acceptable to us depends on a number of factors outside of our control, including: • the growth in consumer debt; • the volume of consumer receivable portfolios available for sale; • availability of financing to fund purchases; • competitive factors affecting potential purchasers and sellers of consumer receivable portfolios; and • possible future changes in the bankruptcy laws, state laws and homestead acts which could make it more difficult for us to collect. Our future operating results will suffer as we have not replaced our defaulted consumer receivables at historic levels. To operate profitably, we must continually acquire a sufficient amount of distressed consumer receivables to generate continued revenue. Our buying during fiscal year ended 2008 slowed dramatically during the last three quarters. As the economic environment deteriorated, we felt that pricing of portfolios had not fallen enough to offset the decline in ultimate collections. Accordingly, our purchases of receivables in 2008 were only $49.9 million, compared to $440.9 million in 2007 and $200.2 million in 2006. Our lack of buying during 2008, which has continued into the first quarter of fiscal year 2009, will have a negative effect on our future revenues and operating results. Furthermore, we cannot predict how our ability to identify and purchase receivables and the quality of those receivables would be affected if there is a shift in consumer lending practices whether caused by changes in regulations or by a sustained economic downturn. Our inability to purchase sufficient quantities of receivables portfolios may necessitate workforce reductions, which may harm our business. Because fixed costs, such as personnel costs constitute a significant portion of our overhead, we may be required to reduce the number of employees if we do not continually purchase receivables acquired for liquidation. Reducing the number of employees can affect our business adversely and lead to: • lower employee morale, higher employee attrition rates and fewer experienced employees; • disruptions in our operations and loss of efficiency in collection functions; • excess costs associated with unused space in collection facilities; and • further reliance on our third party collection agencies and attorneys. We have seen at certain times that the market for acquiring consumer receivable portfolios has become more competitive, thereby diminishing from time to time our ability to acquire such receivables at prices we are willing to pay. The growth in consumer debt may also be affected by: • the continuation of a slowdown in the economy; • continuation of the problems in the credit and housing markets; • reductions in consumer spending; • changes in the underwriting criteria by originators; and • changes in laws and regulations governing consumer lending. Any slowing of the consumer debt growth trend could result in a decrease in the availability of consumer receivable portfolios for purchase that could affect the purchase prices of such portfolios. 18 Table of Contents Any increase in the prices we are required to pay for such portfolios in turn will reduce the profit, if any, we generate from such portfolios. With portfolios classified under the interest method, our projections of future cash flows from our portfolio purchases may prove to be inaccurate, which could result in reduced revenues or the recording of an impairment charge if we do not achieve the collections forecasted by our model. We use qualitative and quantitative analysis to project future cash flows from our portfolio purchases. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to achieve the collections forecasted by our analysis. If we are not able to achieve these levels of forecasted collections, our revenues will be reduced or we may be required to record an impairment charge, which would result in a reduction of our earnings. For the year ended September 30, 2008, we recorded impairment charges of $53.2 million. As relative collections compared to our expectations on certain portfolios were deteriorating, and this deterioration was confirmed by our third party collection agencies and attorneys, we believed that impairment charges were necessary. As the environment continues to be challenging, data received in the second quarter of fiscal year 2009 reflects a continued slowness of collections in relation to our estimates. As this data impacts the first quarter of fiscal year 2009, impairments of approximately $21.4 million offsetting income, are required in the first quarter of fiscal year 2009. We use estimates for recognizing finance income on a portion of our consumer receivables acquired for liquidation and our earnings would be reduced if actual results are less than estimated. We utilize the interest method of revenue recognition for determining our finance income recognized, which is based on projected cash flows that may prove to be less than anticipated and could lead to reductions in revenue or impairment charges under SOP 03-3. Under the guidance of SOP 03-3 (and the amended Practice Bulletin 6), static pools of accounts are established. These pools are aggregated based on certain common risk criteria. Each static pool is recorded at cost and is accounted for as a single unit for the recognition of income, principal payments and loss provision. Once a static pool is established for a quarter, individual receivable accounts are not added to the pool (unless replaced by the seller) or removed from the pool (unless sold or returned to the seller). SOP 03-3 (and the amended Practice Bulletin 6) requires that the excess of the contractual cash flows over expected cash flows not be recognized as an adjustment of revenue or expense or on the balance sheet. The SOP initially freezes the internal rate of return, (“IRR”), estimated when the accounts receivable are purchased, as the basis for subsequent impairment testing. Significant increases in actual, or expected future cash flows may be recognized prospectively through an upward adjustment of the IRR over a portfolio’s remaining life. Any increase to the IRR then becomes the new benchmark for impairment testing. Effective for fiscal years beginning October 1, 2005 under SOP 03-3 (and the amended Practice Bulletin 6), rather than lowering the estimated IRR if the collection estimates are not received or projected to be received, the carrying value of a pool would be written down to maintain the then current IRR. Any reduction in our earnings could materially adversely affect our stock price. We may not be able to collect sufficient amounts on our consumer receivable portfolios to recover the costs associated with the purchase of those portfolios and to fund our operations. We acquire and collect on consumer receivable portfolios that contain charged-off, semi-performing and performing receivables. In order to operate profitably over the long term, we must continually purchase and collect on a sufficient volume of receivables to generate revenue that exceeds our costs. For accounts that are charged-off or semi-performing, the originators or interim owners of the receivables generally have: • made numerous attempts to collect on these obligations, often using both their in-house collection staff and third-party collection agencies; • subsequently deemed these obligations as uncollectible; and • charged-off these obligations. These receivable portfolios are purchased at significant discounts to the amount the consumers owe. These receivables are difficult to collect and actual recoveries may vary and be less than the amount expected. In addition, 19 Table of Contents our collections may worsen in a weak economic cycle. We may not recover amounts in excess of our acquisition and servicing costs. Our ability to recover on our portfolios and produce sufficient returns can be negatively impacted by the quality of the purchased receivables. In the normal course of our portfolio acquisitions, some receivables may be included in the portfolios that fail to conform to certain terms of the purchase agreements and we may seek to return these receivables to the seller for payment or replacement receivables. However, we cannot guarantee that any of such sellers will be able to meet their payment obligations to us. Accounts that we are unable to return to sellers may yield no return. If cash flows from operations are less than anticipated as a result of our inability to collect sufficient amounts on our receivables, our ability to satisfy our debt obligations, purchase new portfolios and our future growth and profitability may be materially adversely affected. We are subject to competition for the purchase of consumer receivable portfolios. We compete with other purchasers of consumer receivable portfolios, with third-party collection agencies and with financial services companies that manage their own consumer receivable portfolios. We compete on the basis of price, reputation, industry experience and performance. Some of our competitors have greater capital, personnel and other resources than we have. The possible entry of new competitors, including competitors that historically have focused on the acquisition of different asset types, and the expected increase in competition from current market participants may reduce our access to consumer receivable portfolios. Aggressive pricing by our competitors has raised the price of consumer receivable portfolios above levels that we are willing to pay, which could reduce the number of consumer receivable portfolios suitable for us to purchase or if purchased by us, reduce the profits, if any, generated by such portfolios. If we are unable to purchase receivable portfolios at favorable prices or at all, our finance income and earnings could be materially reduced. We are dependent upon third parties to service a majority of our consumer receivable portfolios. Although we utilize our in-house collection staff to initiate the collection process to collect some of our receivables, we outsource a majority of our receivable servicing. As a result, we are dependent upon the efforts of our third- party collection agencies and attorneys to service and collect our consumer receivables. However, any failure by our third party collection agencies and attorneys to adequately perform collection services for us or remit such collections to us could materially reduce our finance income and our profitability. In addition, our finance income and profitability could be materially adversely affected if we are not able to secure replacement third party collection agencies and attorneys and redirect payments from the debtors to our new third party collection agencies and attorneys promptly in the event our agreements with our third-party collection agencies and attorneys are terminated, our third-party collection agencies and attorneys fail to adequately perform their obligations or if our relationships with such third-party collection agencies and attorneys adversely change. As 36% of our portfolios are serviced by two organizations, we are dependent on them to perform. We rely on our third party collectors to comply with all rules and regulations and maintain proper internal controls over their accounting and operations. Because the receivables were originated and serviced pursuant to a variety of federal and/or state laws by a variety of entities and involved consumers in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and outside the United States, there can be no assurance that all original servicing entities have, at all times, been in substantial compliance with applicable law. Additionally, there can be no assurance that we or our third-party collection agencies and attorneys have been or will continue to be at all times in substantial compliance with applicable law. The failure to comply with applicable law and not maintain proper controls in their accounting and operations could materially adversely affect our ability to collect our receivables and could subject us to increased costs, fines and penalties. 20 Table of Contents We may rely on third parties to locate, identify and evaluate consumer receivable portfolios available for purchase. We may rely on third parties, including brokers and third-party collection agencies and attorneys, to identify consumer receivable portfolios and, in some instances, to assist us in our evaluation and purchase of these portfolios. As a result, if such third parties fail to identify receivable portfolios or if our relationships with such third parties are not maintained, our ability to identify and purchase additional receivable portfolios could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if we, or such parties, fail to correctly or adequately evaluate the value or collectibility of these consumer receivable portfolios, we may pay too much for such portfolios and suffer an impairment and our earnings could be negatively affected. Our collections may decrease if bankruptcy filings increase. During times of economic recession, the amount of defaulted consumer receivables generally increases, which contributes to an increase in the amount of personal bankruptcy filings. Under certain bankruptcy filings, a debtor’s assets are sold to repay credit originators, but since the defaulted consumer receivables we purchase are generally unsecured, we may not be able to collect on those receivables. We cannot assure you that our collection experience would not decline with an increase in bankruptcy filings. If our actual collection experience with respect to a defaulted consumer receivable portfolio is significantly lower than we projected when we purchased the portfolio, our earnings could be negatively affected. If we are unable to access external sources of financing, we may not be able to fund and grow our operations. We depend on loans from our credit facility and other external sources, in part, to fund and expand our operations. Our ability to grow our business is dependent on our access to additional financing and capital resources. With the most recent amendment to our credit facility, our line has been reduced from $175 million to a graduated reduction to a level of $80 million by June 30, 2009. The failure to obtain financing and capital as needed would limit our ability to: • purchase consumer receivable portfolios; and • achieve our growth plans. In addition, our financing sources impose certain restrictive covenants, including financial covenants. Failure to satisfy any of these covenants could: • cause our indebtedness to become immediately payable; • preclude us from further borrowings from these existing sources; and • prevent us from securing alternative sources of financing necessary to purchase consumer receivable portfolios and to operate our business. The loss of an asset type could impact our ability to acquire receivable portfolios. In the event one of the asset classes of receivables which we purchase is no longer available to us, our purchases may decline and our results might suffer. We may not be successful at acquiring receivables of new asset types or in implementing a new pricing structure. We may pursue the acquisition of receivable portfolios of asset types in which we have little current experience. We may not be successful in completing any acquisitions of receivables of these asset types and our limited experience in these asset types may impair our ability to collect on these receivables. This may cause us to pay too much for these receivables, and consequently, we may not generate a profit from these receivable portfolio acquisitions. 21 Table of Contents The loss of any of our executive officers may adversely affect our operations and our ability to successfully acquire receivable portfolios. Historically, Arthur Stern, our Chairman and Executive Vice President, Gary Stern, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Mitchell Cohen, our Chief Financial Officer, Cameron Williams, our Chief Operating Officer, and Mary Curtin, our Senior Vice President, were responsible for making substantially all management decisions, including determining which portfolios to purchase, the purchase price and other material terms of such portfolio acquisitions. These decisions are instrumental to the success of our business. Mitchell Cohen has announced that he will be leaving the Company to relocate and take another position shortly after the filing of this Form 10-K. He will be replaced by Robert J. Michel, CPA, who has served in senior financial positions at the Company for four years, including the last year as Controller. Additionally, as of January 2009, Arthur Stern has stepped down as an employee of the Company, although he will continue to serve on the Board and to consult with our executives. Significant losses of the services of our executive officers or the need to replace our officers with individuals who do not have experience with the Company could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our ability to successfully acquire receivable portfolios. The Stern family effectively controls Asta, substantially reducing the influence of our other stockholders. Members of the Stern family including Arthur Stern, Gary Stern and Barbara Marburger, daughter of Arthur Stern and sister of Gary Stern, trusts or custodial accounts for the benefit of minor children of Barbara Marburger and Gary Stern, Asta Group, Incorporated, and limited liability companies controlled by Judith R. Feder, niece of Arthur Stern and cousin of Gary Stern, in which Arthur Stern, Alice Stern (wife of Arthur Stern and mother of Gary Stern and Barbara Marburger), Gary Stern and trusts for the benefit of the issue of Arthur Stern and the issue of Gary Stern hold all economic interests, own, in the aggregate, approximately 26.0% of our outstanding shares of common stock. In addition, other members of the Stern Family, such as adult children of Gary Stern and Barbara Marburger, own additional shares. As a result, the Stern family is able to influence significantly the actions that require stockholder approval, including: • the election of a majority of our directors; and • the approval of mergers, sales of assets or other corporate transactions or matters submitted for stockholder approval. As a result, our other stockholders may have reduced influence over matters submitted for stockholder approval. In addition, the Stern family’s influence could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of us and consequently materially adversely affect the price of our common stock. We have experienced rapid growth over the past several years, which has placed significant demands on our administrative, operational and financial resources and could result in an increase in our expenses. We plan to continue our growth at the appropriate time, which could place additional demands on our resources and cause our expenses to increase. Future internal growth will depend on a number of factors, including: • the effective and timely initiation and development of relationships with sellers of consumer receivable portfolios and strategic partners; • our ability to maintain the collection of consumer receivables efficiently; and • the recruitment, motivation and retention of qualified personnel. Sustaining growth will also require the implementation of enhancements to our operational and financial systems and will require additional management, operational and financial resources. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our expanding operations effectively or that we will be able to maintain or accelerate our growth or attract additional management talent and any failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to generate finance income and control our expenses. 22 Table of Contents Current economic conditions, have had a significant impact on our ability to sell accounts. As part of our historic business model, we have sold accounts on an opportunistic basis. Our ability to sell accounts has been limited in 2008, and may be limited in 2009 and beyond. Net collections represented by account sales for 2008 were only $20.4 million, compared to $54.2 million and $55.0 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. Collections represented by account sales as a percentage of total collections were 9.8% in 2008, compared to 19.2% and 25.7% in 2007 and 2006. We had launched a sales effort to enhance cash flow and pay debt, particularly from the Portfolio Purchase, but sales have been slower than expected due to a variety of factors, including a slow resale market, similar to the decrease in pricing we are seeing in general, as well as lack of media and validation of accounts with respect to accounts in the Portfolio Purchase. Government regulations may limit our ability to recover and enforce the collection of our receivables. Federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and ordinances may limit our ability to recover and enforce our rights with respect to the receivables acquired by us. These laws include, but are not limited to, the following federal statutes and regulations promulgated thereunder and comparable statutes in states where consumers reside and/or where creditors are located: • The Fair Debt Collection Practices Act; • The Federal Trade Commission Act; • The Truth-In-Lending Act; • The Fair Credit Billing Act; • The Equal Credit Opportunity Act; and • The Fair Credit Reporting Act. We may be precluded from collecting receivables we purchase where the creditor or other previous owner or third-party collection agency or attorney failed to comply with applicable law in originating or servicing such acquired receivables. Laws relating to the collection of consumer debt also directly apply to our business. Our failure to comply with any laws applicable to us, including state licensing laws, could limit our ability to recover on receivables and could subject us to fines and penalties, which could reduce our earnings and result in a default under our loan arrangements. In addition, our third-party collection agencies and attorneys may be subject to these and other laws and their failure to comply with such laws could also materially adversely affect our finance income and earnings. Additional laws or amendments to existing laws, may be enacted that could impose additional restrictions on the servicing and collection of receivables. Such new laws or amendments may adversely affect the ability to collect on our receivables, which could also adversely affect our finance income and earnings. Because our receivables are generally originated and serviced pursuant to a variety of federal, state laws and/or local laws by a variety of entities and may involve consumers in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and South America, there can be no assurance that all originating and servicing entities have, at all times, been in substantial compliance with applicable law. Additionally, there can be no assurance that we or our third-party collection agencies and attorneys have been or will continue to be at all times in substantial compliance with applicable law. Failure to comply with applicable law could materially adversely affect our ability to collect our receivables and could subject us to increased costs, fines and penalties. Class action suits and other litigation in our industry could divert our management’s attention from operating our business and increase our expenses. Originators, debt purchasers and third-party collection agencies and attorneys in the consumer credit industry are frequently subject to putative class action lawsuits and other litigation. Claims include failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations and improper or deceptive origination and servicing practices. Being a defendant in such class action lawsuits or other litigation could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 23 Table of Contents We may seek to make acquisitions that prove unsuccessful or strain or divert our resources. We may seek to grow Asta through acquisitions of related businesses. Such acquisitions present risks that could materially adversely affect our business and financial performance, including: • the diversion of our management’s attention from our everyday business activities; • the assimilation of the operations and personnel of the acquired business; • the contingent and latent risks associated with the past operations of, and other unanticipated problems arising in, the acquired business; and • the need to expand management, administration and operational systems. If we make such acquisitions we cannot predict whether: • we will be able to successfully integrate the operations of any new businesses into our business; • we will realize any anticipated benefits of completed acquisitions; or • there will be substantial unanticipated costs associated with acquisitions. In addition, future acquisitions by us may result in: • potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities; • the incurrence of additional debt; and • the recognition of significant charges for depreciation and impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets. Although we have no present plans or intentions, we continuously evaluate potential acquisitions of related businesses. However, we have not reached any agreement or arrangement with respect to any particular future acquisition and we may not be able to complete any acquisitions on favorable terms or at all. Our investments in other businesses and entry into new business ventures may adversely affect our operations. We have and may continue to make investments in companies or commence operations in businesses and industries that are not identical to those with which we have historically been successful. If these investments or arrangements are not successful, our earnings could be materially adversely affected by increased expenses and decreased finance income. If our technology and phone systems are not operational, our operations could be disrupted and our ability to successfully acquire receivable portfolios and receive collections from debtors could be adversely affected. Our success depends, in part, on sophisticated telecommunications and computer systems. The temporary loss of our computer and telecommunications systems, through casualty, operating malfunction or service provider failure, could disrupt our operations. In addition, we must record and process significant amounts of data quickly and accurately to properly bid on prospective acquisitions of receivable portfolios and to access, maintain and expand the databases we use for our collection and monitoring activities. Any failure of our information systems and their backup systems would interrupt our operations. We may not have adequate backup arrangements for all of our operations and we may incur significant losses if an outage occurs. In addition, we rely on third-party collection agencies and attorneys who also may be adversely affected in the event of an outage in which the third-party collection agencies and attorneys do not have adequate backup arrangements. Any interruption in our operations or our third-party collection agencies’ and attorneys’ operations could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 24 Table of Contents Our organizational documents and Delaware law may make it harder for us to be acquired without the consent and cooperation of our board of directors and management. Several provisions of our organizational documents and Delaware law may deter or prevent a takeover attempt, including a takeover attempt in which the potential purchaser offers to pay a per share price greater than the current market price of our common stock. Under the terms of our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by the stockholders, to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions thereof. The ability to issue shares of preferred stock could tend to discourage takeover or acquisition proposals not supported by our current board of directors. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which restricts business combinations with some stockholders once the stockholder acquires 15% or more of our common stock. Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could cause a decrease in the market price of our common stock. We had 14,271,824 shares of common stock issued and outstanding as of the date hereof. Of these shares, 3,669,340 are held by our affiliates and are saleable under Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The remainder of our outstanding shares are freely tradable. In addition, options to purchase approximately 1,037,438 shares of our common stock were outstanding as of September 30, 2008, of which 1,031,438 were vested. In certain cases, the exercise prices of such options were higher than the current market price of our common stock. We may also issue additional shares in connection with our business and may grant additional stock options or restricted shares to our employees, officers, directors and consultants under our present or future equity compensation plans or we may issue warrants to third parties outside of such plans. As of September 30, 2008 there were 1,267,334 shares available for such purpose with such shares available under the Equity Compensation Plan and the 2002 Stock Option Plan. No more options are available for issuance under the 1995 Stock Option Plan. If a significant portion of these shares were sold in the public market, the market value of our common stock could be adversely affected. From time to time, the Company’s Chairman, Arthur Stern and President and Chief Executive Officer, Gary Stern have adopted prearranged stock trading plans in accordance with guidelines specified by Rule 10b5-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. While no such plans are in effect at present, significant sales by the Stern family could have an adverse effect on market price for our common stock. The Company purchased a portfolio in a South American country exposing the Company to currency rate fluctuations. As a result of this purchase, the Company is exposed to currency rate fluctuations as the collections on this portfolio are denominated in the local currency of the South American country. Additionally, our investment could also be exposed to the same currency risk. A strengthened U.S. dollar could decrease the U.S. dollar equivalent of the local currency collections, and the local currency conversion to U.S. dollars would suffer upon settlement of transactions associated with this investment with the parent company. The Company has no foreign currency hedge contracts in place. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate and cause our stock price to decline. Because of the nature of our business, our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our results may fluctuate as a result of any of the following: • the timing and amount of collections on our consumer receivable portfolios; • our inability to identify and acquire additional consumer receivable portfolios; • a decline in the estimated future value of our consumer receivable portfolio recoveries; • increases in operating expenses associated with the growth of our operations; • general and economic market conditions; and 25 Table of Contents • prices we are willing to pay for consumer receivable portfolios. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. The Company has received no written comments regarding its periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of its 2008 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 