ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Competition—Competition may result in decreased sales, operating income, and cash flow. The markets in which we operate are competitive. We believe that design features, product quality, customer service, delivery lead times, and price are the principal factors considered by our customers. Some of our competitors may have, or may develop, greater financial resources, lower costs, superior technology, or more favorable operating conditions than we do. For example, our competitors are expanding capacity or contracting with suppliers located in China and other low-cost manufacturing locations as a means to lower costs. Although we have also established a manufacturing facility in China, international competition from emerging economies has nevertheless been formidable and has, in some cases, negatively affected our business. We may not be able to compete successfully with our existing or any new competitors, and the competitive pressures we face may result in decreased sales, operating income, and cash flows. Competitors could also obtain knowledge of our proprietary manufacturing techniques and processes and reduce our competitive advantage by copying such techniques and processes. Certain of our customers also compete with us with certain products in selected markets, and they may expand their production and marketing of competing products in the future. Key Customers—Loss of one or more key customers would substantially decrease our sales. In 2012, none of our customers accounted for 10% or more of our total sales and our top three customers accounted for $147.3 million, or 15.9%, of our total sales. Aside from our top three customers, no other customer individually accounted for more than 2.0% of our total sales in 2012. While we expect these business relationships to continue, the loss of any of these key customers, or a substantial portion of their business, would most likely significantly decrease our sales, operating income, and cash flows. Certain customers may also decide to manufacture various components themselves that we currently sell to them, which would have an adverse effect on our business. 9 Table of Contents Key Suppliers and Raw Materials Costs—The loss of a few key suppliers or increases in raw materials costs could substantially decrease our sales or increase our costs. We purchase important materials and parts from a limited number of suppliers that meet our quality criteria. We generally do not operate under long-term written supply contracts with our suppliers. Although alternative sources of supply are available, the sudden elimination or disruption of certain suppliers could result in manufacturing delays, an increase in costs, a reduction in product quality, and a possible loss of sales in the short-term. In 2012, we purchased $26.5 million in products from our largest supplier and $75.6 million in products and raw materials from our top five suppliers. During 2012, we experienced difficulty in obtaining certain component parts on a timely basis from one of our key suppliers in the FRAG segment, and these supply disruptions in turn resulted in delayed and ultimately lost sales of some of our FRAG products, as well as higher costs to expedite delivery and service customer demand. Some of these raw materials, in particular cold-rolled strip steel, are subject to price volatility over periods of time. In 2012 we purchased $97.8 million of steel. In addition to steel raw material, we also purchase components and subassemblies that are made with steel, and prices for these items are also subject to steel price volatility risk. We have not hedged against the price volatility of any raw materials. It has been our experience that raw material price increases are sometimes difficult to recover from our customers in the short-term through increased pricing. We estimate that a 10% change in the price of steel purchased as raw material, without a corresponding increase in selling prices, would have reduced 2012 income from continuing operations before taxes by $9.8 million. Foreign Sales and Operations—We have substantial foreign sales, operations, and property, which could be adversely affected as a result of changes in local economic or political conditions, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, unexpected changes in regulatory environments, or potentially adverse tax consequences. In 2012, approximately 56% of our sales were shipped to customers outside of the U.S. International sales and operations are subject to inherent risks, including changes in local economic or political conditions, instability of government institutions, the imposition of currency exchange restrictions, unexpected changes in legal and regulatory environments, nationalization of private property, and potentially adverse tax consequences. Under some circumstances, these factors could result in significant declines in international sales. Some of our sales and expenses are denominated in local currencies that are affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates in relation to the U.S. Dollar. Historically, our principal local currency exposures have been related to manufacturing costs and expenses in Canada, and local currency sales and expenses in Europe. From time to time, we manage some of our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations through derivative products. However, such derivative products merely reduce the short-term volatility of currency fluctuations, and do not eliminate their effects over the long-term. Any change in the exchange rates of currencies in jurisdictions into which we sell products or incur expenses could result in a significant decrease in reported sales and operating income. For example, we estimate that a 10% stronger Canadian Dollar in relation to the U.S. Dollar would have reduced our operating income by $6.1 million. We estimate that a 10% weaker Euro in relation to the U.S. Dollar would have reduced our sales by $11.2 million and operating income by $0.9 million in 2012. We estimate that the year-over-year movement of foreign exchange rates from 2011 to 2012, whereby the U.S. Dollar strengthened in relation to the Canadian Dollar and the Euro, decreased our sales by $13.8 million and decreased our operating income by $3.9 million. Also, approximately 58% of our foreign sales in 2012 were denominated in U.S. Dollars. We may see a decline in sales during periods of a strengthening U.S. Dollar, which can make our prices less competitive in international markets. Furthermore, if the U.S. Dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, it becomes more costly for foreign customers to pay their U.S. Dollar balances owed. They may have difficulty in repaying these amounts, and in turn, our bad debt expense may increase. In addition, we own substantial manufacturing facilities outside the U.S. As of December 31, 2012, 857,555, or 43%, of the total square feet of our owned facilities are located outside of the U.S., and 28% of our leased square footage is located outside the U.S. This foreign-based property, plant, and equipment is subject to inherent risks for the reasons cited above. Loss of these facilities or restrictions on our ability to use them would have an adverse effect on our manufacturing and distribution capabilities and would result in reduced sales, operating income, and cash flows. 10 Table of Contents Weather—Sales of many of our products are affected by weather patterns and the occurrence of natural disasters. Sales of many of our products are influenced by weather patterns that are clearly outside our control. For example, drought conditions tend to reduce the demand for agricultural and yard care products, such as tractor attachments and lawnmower blades, and conversely, plentiful rain conditions stimulate demand for these products. During 2012, continuing drought conditions in North America resulted in lower sales of certain of our FRAG and lawn and garden products. Natural disasters such as hurricanes, typhoons, and ice and wind storms that knock down trees can stimulate demand for our forestry and log splitter products. Conversely, a relative lack of severe weather and natural disasters can result in reduced demand for these same products. Financial Leverage—Due to our financial leverage, we could have difficulty operating our business and satisfying our debt obligations. As of December 31, 2012, we have $793.8 million of total liabilities, including $516.8 million of debt. Our debt leverage is significant, and may have important consequences for us, including the following: • A significant portion of our cash flow from operations is dedicated to the payment of interest expense and required principal repayments, which reduces the funds that would otherwise be available to fund operations and future business opportunities. Cash interest and mandatory debt principal payments totaled $31.6 million during 2012. • A substantial decrease in net operating income and cash flows or a substantial increase in expenses may make it difficult for us to meet our debt service requirements or force us to modify our operations. • Our substantial leverage may make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and competitive pressures. • Our ability to obtain additional or replacement financing for working capital, capital expenditures, or other purposes, may be impaired, or such financing may not be available on terms favorable to us under current market conditions for credit. We have available borrowing capacity under the revolving portion of our senior credit facilities of $61.8 million as of December 31, 2012. Our term loan facility does not allow the borrowing of additional principal amounts. If we or any of our subsidiaries incur additional indebtedness, the risks outlined above could worsen. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures and research and product development efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. Our ability to generate cash, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors that are beyond our control. Our historical financial results have been, and we anticipate that our future financial results will be, subject to fluctuations in customer orders, sales, operating results, and cash flows. Our business may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from our operations or future borrowings may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. An inability to pay our debts would require us to pursue one or more alternative strategies, such as selling assets, refinancing or restructuring our indebtedness, or selling equity capital. However, alternative strategies may not be feasible at the time or may not prove adequate, which could cause us to default on our obligations and would impair our liquidity. Also, some alternative strategies would require the prior consent of our secured lenders, which we may not be able to obtain. See also Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 11 Table of Contents Restrictive Covenants—The terms of our indebtedness contain a number of restrictive covenants, the breach of any of which could result in acceleration of payment of our senior credit facilities. A breach of any of our restrictive debt covenants could result in acceleration of our obligations to repay our debt. An acceleration of our repayment obligations under our senior credit facilities could result in a payment or distribution of substantially all of our assets to our secured lenders, which would materially impair our ability to operate our business as a going concern. In addition, our senior credit facility agreement, among other things, restricts and/or limits our and certain of our subsidiaries’ ability to: • incur debt; • guarantee indebtedness of others; • pay dividends on our stock; • repurchase our stock; • pursue strategic acquisitions; • make certain types of investments; • use assets as security in other transactions; • sell certain assets or merge with or into other companies; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates; • enter into certain new businesses; and • make certain payments in respect of subordinated indebtedness. In addition, the senior credit facilities require us to maintain certain financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests, which may require that we take actions to reduce debt or to act in a manner contrary to our business objectives. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests could be affected by events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance that we will continue to meet those ratios and tests. A breach of any of these covenants could, if uncured, constitute an event of default under the senior credit facilities. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the senior credit facilities, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the senior credit facilities, together with any accrued interest and commitment fees, to be immediately due and payable. If we and certain of our subsidiaries were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under the senior credit facilities could enforce the guarantees from the guarantors and proceed against the collateral securing the senior credit facilities. The assets of Blount, Inc., our wholly-owned subsidiary and issuer of the debt under our senior credit facilities, and the applicable guarantors could be insufficient to repay in full that indebtedness and our other indebtedness. See also Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Assets Pledged as Security on Credit Facilities—The majority of our assets and the capital stock of our wholly-owned subsidiary Blount, Inc. are pledged to secure obligations under our senior credit facilities. The Company and all of its domestic subsidiaries other than Blount, Inc. guarantee Blount, Inc.’s obligations under the senior credit facilities. The obligations under the senior credit facilities are collateralized by a first priority security interest in substantially all of the assets of Blount, Inc. and its domestic subsidiaries, as well as a pledge of all of Blount, Inc.’s capital stock held by Blount International, Inc. and all of the stock of domestic subsidiaries held by Blount, Inc. Blount, Inc. has also pledged 65% of the stock of its direct non-domestic subsidiaries as additional collateral. An event of default under our senior credit facilities could trigger our lenders’ contractual rights to enforce their security interests in these assets. Litigation—We may have litigation liabilities that could result in significant costs to us. Our historical and current business operations have resulted in a number of litigation matters, including litigation involving personal injury or death, as a result of alleged design or manufacturing defects of our products, and litigation involving alleged patent infringement. Certain of these liabilities relating to certain of our discontinued operations were retained by us under terms of the relevant divestiture agreements. Some of these product liability suits seek significant or unspecified damages for serious personal injuries for which there are retentions or deductible amounts under our insurance policies. In the future, we may face additional lawsuits, and it is difficult to predict the amount and type of litigation that we may face. Litigation, insurance, and other related costs could result in future liabilities that are significant and that could significantly reduce our operating income, cash flows, and cash balances. See also Item 3, Legal Proceedings, and Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 12 Table of Contents Environmental Matters—We face potential exposure to environmental liabilities and costs. We are subject to various U.S. and foreign environmental laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances, and the cleanup of contaminated sites. Violations of, or liabilities incurred under, these laws and regulations could result in an assessment of significant costs to us, including civil or criminal penalties, claims by third parties for personal injury or property damage, requirements to investigate and remediate contamination, and the imposition of natural resource damages. Furthermore, under certain environmental laws, current and former owners and operators of contaminated property or parties who sent waste to a contaminated site can be held liable for cleanup, regardless of fault or the lawfulness of the disposal activity at the time it was performed. This potential exposure to environmental liabilities and costs can apply to both our current and former operating facilities, including those related to our discontinued operations. Future events, such as the discovery of additional contamination or other information concerning past releases of hazardous substances at our or other sites affected by our actions, changes in existing environmental laws or their interpretation, including changes related to climate change, and more rigorous enforcement by regulatory authorities may require additional expenditures by us to modify operations, install pollution control equipment, investigate and monitor contamination at sites, clean contaminated sites, or curtail our operations. These expenditures could significantly reduce our net income and cash flows. See also Item 1, Business-Environmental Matters, Item 3, Legal Proceedings, and Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. General Economic Factors—We are subject to general economic factors that are largely out of our control, any of which could, among other things, result in a decrease in sales, net income, and cash flows, and an increase in our interest or other expenses. Our business is subject to a number of general economic factors, many of which are largely out of our control, which may, among other effects, result in a decrease in sales, net income, and cash flows, and an increase in our interest or other expenses. These factors include recessionary economic cycles and downturns in customers’ business cycles, as well as downturns in the principal regional economies where our operations are located. Economic conditions may adversely affect our customers’ business levels and the amount of products that they need. Furthermore, customers encountering adverse economic conditions may have difficulty in paying for our products and actual bad debts may exceed our allowance for bad debts. World-wide economic conditions may also adversely affect our suppliers and they may not be able to provide us with the goods and services we need on a timely basis, which could adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products. Our senior credit facility borrowings are at variable interest rates. Increases in market reference interest rates could increase our interest expense payable under the senior credit facilities to levels in excess of what we currently expect. We estimate that an increase in our average interest rates in 2012 of 100 basis points would have increased our interest expense by $5.4 million. In addition, fluctuations in the market values of equity and debt securities held in the Company’s pension plan assets can adversely affect the funding status of our defined benefit pension plans. The expense and funding requirements for these plans may increase in the future as a result of reduced values of the plan assets. Furthermore, terrorist activities, anti-terrorist efforts, war, or other armed conflicts involving the U.S. or its interests abroad may result in a downturn in the U.S. and global economies and exacerbate the risks to our business described in this paragraph. Key Employees—The loss of key employees could adversely affect our manufacturing efficiency. Many of our manufacturing processes require a high level of expertise. For example, we build our own complex dies for use in cutting and shaping steel into components for our products. The design and manufacture of such dies are highly dependent on the expertise of key employees. We have also developed numerous proprietary manufacturing techniques that rely on the expertise of key employees. Our manufacturing efficiency and cost could be adversely affected if we are unable to retain these key employees or continue to train them or their replacements. 13 Table of Contents Common Stock Price—The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and stockholders could lose all or part of their investment. Volatility in the market price of our common stock may prevent stockholders from being able to sell their shares at or above the price paid for the shares. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly for various reasons that include: • our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industries; • the public’s reaction to events and results contained in our press releases, our other public announcements, and our filings with the SEC; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts who track our common stock or the stock of other comparable companies; • changes in general conditions in the U.S. and global economies, financial markets, or the industries we market our products to, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism, changes in technology or competition, or responses to such events; • sales of common stock by our largest stockholders, directors, and executive officers; and • the other factors described in these “Risk Factors.” In addition, the stock market and our common stock have historically experienced price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industries. The changes in prices frequently appear to occur without regard to the operating performance of these companies. For example, over the preceding two-year period, our highest closing stock price has exceeded our lowest closing stock price by 45%. The price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our Company, and these fluctuations could materially reduce our stock price. Common Stock Sales—Future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower our stock price. Ownership and control of our common stock is concentrated in a relatively small number of institutional investors. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 44% of our outstanding common stock was owned or controlled by our five largest stockholders. We may sell additional shares of common stock in subsequent public offerings, or other stockholders with significant holdings of our common stock may also sell large amounts of shares they own in a secondary or open market stock offering. We may also issue additional shares of common stock to finance future transactions. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition or shares sold by existing stockholders), or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock. Computer Transaction Processing—An information technology system failure or breach of security may adversely affect our business. We rely on information technology systems to transact our business. An information technology system failure due to computer viruses, internal or external security breaches, power interruptions, hardware failures, fire, natural disasters, human error, or other causes could disrupt our operations and prevent us from being able to process transactions with our customers, operate our manufacturing facilities, and properly report those transactions in a timely manner. A significant, protracted information technology system failure may result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. In recent years we have increased the volume of sales transactions processed over the internet. As a result, sensitive information about our customers is stored in electronic media. If unauthorized access to this information were gained, we could be subject to penalties or claims by our customers, which could have an adverse effect on our business. 14 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 