Item 1A. Risk Factors Our auditors have issued a going concern opinion with respect to our consolidated financial statements although our financial statements are prepared using generally accepted accounting principles applicable to a going concern. The Company has incurred significant losses as a consolidated entity since July 2007, losses that have continued since that time through fiscal 2011. These continuing losses raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern and our auditor's opinion with respect to our financial statements contain a going concern opinion. The accompanying audited consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability and classification of asset carrying amounts or the amount and classification of liabilities that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. 7 Table of Contents Because We Have Limited Operating History, it is Difficult to Evaluate Our Business. The Company began its operations as an automotive concern in July 2007 with the acquisition of one automobile auction. Because of our limited operating history, you have very little operating and financial data about us upon which to base an evaluation. You should consider our prospects in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties we may encounter, including those frequently encountered by new companies. If we are unable to execute our plans and grow our business, either as a result of the risks identified in this section or for any other reason, this failure would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, business prospects, and financial condition. We plan to grow through acquisitions, and investors have little current basis to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the target businesses' operations or our ability to identify and integrate acquired operations into our company. To the extent we complete a business combination with a financially unstable company or an entity in its development stage, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of those entities. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. The purchase of our securities is a purchase of an interest in what should be considered as a high risk venture or in a new or “start-up” venture with all the unforeseen costs, expenses, problems, and difficulties to which such ventures are subject. We plan to grow through acquisitions Because we intend to develop and expand our business through selective acquisitions of automobile auctions and other complementary businesses, there are significant risks that we may not be successful. We may not be able to identify, acquire or profitably manage additional companies or assets or successfully integrate such additional companies or assets without substantial costs, delays or other problems. In addition, companies we may acquire may not be profitable at the time of their acquisition or may not achieve levels of profitability that would justify our investment. Acquisitions may involve a number of special risks, including: § adverse short-term effects on our reported operating results, § diversion of management's attention, § dependence on retaining, hiring and training key personnel, § risks associated with unanticipated problems or legal liabilities, § amortization of acquired intangible assets, some or all of which could reflect poorly on our operating results and financial reports, § implementation or remediation of controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company at companies that prior to the acquisition lacked these controls, procedures and policies; and, § incursion of debt to make acquisitions or for other operating uses. We will implement our acquisition strategy in what may be considered a mature industry We believe the vehicle redistribution industry through auctions may be considered a mature industry in which single-digit or low double-digit growth may occur. Most growth for our Company would, accordingly, occur largely through acquisitions. To the extent that competitors are also seeking to grow through acquisitions, we could encounter competition for those acquisitions or a generally increasing price to acquire automobile auctions. A primary part of the Company’s strategy is to establish revenue through the acquisition of additional companies or operations. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to identify, acquire or profitably manage additional companies or successfully integrate the operations of additional companies into those of the Company without encountering substantial costs, delays or other problems. In addition, there can be no assurance that companies acquired in the future will achieve or maintain profitability that justify liabilities that could materially adversely affect the Company's results of operations or financial condition. The Company may compete for acquisition and expansion opportunities with companies that have greater resources than the Company. There can be no assurance that suitable acquisition candidates will be available, that purchase terms or financing for acquisitions will be obtainable on terms acceptable to the Company, that acquisitions can be consummated or that acquired businesses can be integrated successfully and profitability into the Company’s operations. Further, the Company's results of operations in fiscal quarters immediately following a material acquisition could be materially adversely affected while the Company integrates the acquired business into its existing operations. 8 Table of Contents The Company will attempt to acquire business entities that are going and functioning concerns with a trailing history of profitability, but may acquire certain businesses that have either been unprofitable, have had inconsistent profitability prior to their acquisition, or that have had no operating history. An inability of the Company to improve the profitability of these acquired businesses could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Finally, the Company's acquisition strategy places significant demands on the Company's resources and there can be no assurance that the Company's management and operational systems and structure can be expanded to effectively support the Company's acquisition strategy. If the Company is unable to successfully implement its acquisition strategy, this inability could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations, or financial condition. The Company may face the opportunity to enhance shareholder value by being acquired by another company. Upon any acquisition of the Company, the Company would be subject to various risks, including the replacement of its management by persons currently unknown. There can also be no assurance that, if acquired, new management will be successfully integrated or can profitably manage the Company. In addition, any acquisition of the Company may involve immediate dilution to existing shareholders of the Company. In its present configuration, the Company cannot be forcibly acquired in a hostile takeover, and therefore the Company can review the ultimate impact on its shareholders prior to engaging in any such activities. No assurances can be given that the Company will be able to or desire to be acquired, or be able to acquire additional companies. Need for Additional Financing The Company intends to fund its operations and other capital needs for the next six months from revenues generated from operations and from lines of credit associated with its auction operations, but there can be no assurance that such funds will be sufficient to meet the obligations of our business. The Company may require additional amounts of capital for its future expansion and working capital, possibly from private placements or borrowing, but there can be no assurance that such financing will be available, or that such financing will be available on acceptable terms. Dependence on Key Personnel Our future performance depends in significant part upon the continued service of our Chief Executive Officer, Steve Sample. The loss of his services could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. The Company does not presently maintain key man life insurance on Mr. Sample, but may obtain such insurance at the discretion of its board of directors for such term as it may deem suitable or desirable. Our future success may depend on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical, sales and managerial personnel. Although the Company feels that there is a sufficient pool of talent available, the competition for such personnel can be intense, and there can be no assurance that we can attract, assimilate or retain highly qualified technical, sales and managerial personnel for favorable compensations in the future. Technological Change Technology, particularly the ability to use the Internet to view vehicles, to conduct Internet auctions, to allow customers to participate through the Internet in on–site auctions, and to allow several management functions for buyers and sellers for vehicle auctions is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new product and service announcements, introductions and enhancements, and changing customer demands. Our future success will to some degree depend on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies, our ability to adapt its solutions to meet evolving industry standards and our ability to improve continually the performance, features and reliability of its solutions. The failure of the Company to adapt successfully to such changes in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the Company will not experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful implementation of solutions, or that any new solutions or enhancements to existing solutions will adequately meet the requirements of its current and prospective customers and achieve any degree of significant market acceptance. If the Company is unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop and introduce new solutions or enhancements to existing solutions in a timely manner or in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, or if its solutions or enhancements do not achieve a significant degree of market acceptance, the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Competition The industry served by the Company is highly competitive across the entire United States and Canada. We currently or potentially compete with a variety of companies. Our first acquisition and only operations in 2011 services the Augusta, Georgia area. The Company would prefer that other early acquisitions, if any, would be in the eastern or central United States, but there is no assurance the Company will be able to adhere to that plan or to make any acquisitions at all. 9 Table of Contents Control The Company is effectively controlled by its CEO and Chairman, Steven L. Sample, who currently owns 48.91% of the Company’s issued and outstanding common stock. Mr. Sample will initially retain effective control over the Company’s operations, including the election of a majority of its board of directors, the issuance of additional shares of equity securities, and other matters of corporate governance, and based upon the Company's current business plan, it is anticipated that Mr. Sample will continue to have effective but not necessarily ultimate control of the Company well into future, perhaps even after some subsequent private offerings or a public offering. Management of Growth The Company is continually seeking to identify and acquire additional auto auctions or other viable businesses. As a result, the Company must manage relationships with a growing number of third parties as it seeks to accommodate this goal. The Company's management, personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support the Company’s future operations. The Company's ability to manage its growth effectively will require it to continue to expand its operating and financial procedures and controls, to replace or upgrade its operational, financial and management information systems and to attract, train, motivate, manage and retain key employees. If the Company's executives are unable to manage growth effectively, the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. If successful in acquiring additional auto auctions, the Company expects to inherit a substantial portion of the staff necessary to operate the new entities. We may find that some of the personnel and management of any acquisition target(s) may not be suitable for continued employment, while other suitable candidates may elect to discontinue their employment or affiliation with the Company for various reasons. This can create a burden on the Company’s management as it seeks to fill key positions. Failure of the Company to do so in a timely manner can result in disruption of auction operations, loss of revenues, and a subsequent reduction in profits. Risks Associated with Expansion The Company commenced auction operations in the Augusta, Georgia area in 2007, and desires to expand into other locations and markets in the automotive or other diverse businesses. To date, the Company does not have experience in developing services on a regional or national scale. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to deploy successfully its services in these markets. There are certain risks inherent in doing business in several diverse markets, such as; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, potentially adverse tax consequences, local restrictions, controls relating to inter-company communications and technology, difficulties in staffing and managing distant operations, fluctuations in manpower availability, effects of local competition, weather and climactic trends, and customer preferences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the success of the Company's operations and, consequently, on the Company's business, results of operations, and financial condition. Product and Service Offerings The Company is primarily a service business. It is important to our future success to expand the breadth and depth of our service offerings to stay abreast of the competition and to enhance our potentials for growth of revenues and profits. Expansion of our service categories and service offerings in this manner will require significant additional expenditures and could strain our management, financial and operational resources. For example, we may find it prudent to build, outfit, and operate a body and paint shop at an auction facility that does not presently have one. We cannot be certain that we will be able to do so in a cost-effective or timely manner or that we will be able to offer certain services in demand by our customers, or to do so in a quality manner. Furthermore, any new service offering that is not favorably received by the Company’s clients could damage our reputation. The lack of market acceptance of new services or our inability to generate satisfactory revenues from expanded service offerings to offset their costs could harm our business. If we do not successfully expand our sales and service operations, our revenues may fall below expectations. If we do not successfully expand our operations on an ongoing basis to accommodate increases in demand, we will not be able to fulfill our customers’ needs in a timely manner, which would harm our business. Most of our service operations are anticipated to be handled at our facilities, but some services may be performed at offsite locations or by approved vendors or contractors. Any future expansion may cause disruptions in our business and may be insufficient to meet our ongoing requirements. The Company may also move into other diverse businesses such as manufacturing, marketing, or otherwise, and is not limited to considering only service business offerings. Government Regulation and Legal Uncertainties Any new legislation or regulation, or the application of laws or regulations from jurisdictions whose laws do not currently apply to the Company's business could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. 10 Table of Contents Check, Credit Card, and Other Fraud Our business would be harmed if we experience significant check, credit card, or other fraud. If we fail to adequately control fraudulent transactions, our revenues and results of operations could be harmed. The Company’s auction operations subscribe to the services of Auction Insurance Agency as a protection against risks similar to these, but while the Company’s exposure to loss in this event is thought to be limited by the purchase of insurance, losses could nonetheless occur. Any losses sustained as a result of fraud or fraudulent activity would adversely affect the Company's business and results of operations, and its financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Liability Claims The Company may face costly liability claims by consumers. Any claim of liability by a client, employee, consumer or other entity against us, regardless of merit, could be costly financially and could divert the attention of our management. It could also create negative publicity, which would harm our business. Although we maintain liability insurance, it may not be sufficient to cover a claim if one is made. Risks of Low Priced Stocks Although the Company is currently a public company, its trading is limited to the OTC Pink Sheets. The Company’s shares were traded on the NASDAQ exchange as Gibbs Construction prior to that entity’s financial difficulties, after which it was moved to the OTC Pink Sheets. A trading market for the Company's common stock could develop further, but there can be no assurance that it will do so. The Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC” or “Commission”) has adopted regulations which define a “penny stock” to be any equity security, such as those being offered by the Company herein, that has a market price (as therein defined) of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require the delivery, prior to any transaction involving a penny stock by a retail customer, of a disclosure schedule prepared by the Securities and Exchange commission relating to the penny stock market. Disclosure is also required to be made about commissions payable to both the broker/dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities. Accordingly, market makers may be less inclined to participate in marketing the Company’s securities, which may have an adverse impact upon the liquidity of the Company’s securities. The Company would wish to attempt to return to the NASDAQ Exchange upon success in achieving the requirements to do so, which include minimal capitalization and other benchmarks. No Assurance of Payment of Dividends Should the operations of the Company become profitable it is likely that the Company would retain much or all of its earnings in order to finance future growth and expansion. Therefore, the Company does not presently intend to pay dividends, and it is not likely that any dividends will be paid in the foreseeable future. Potential Future Capital Needs The Company may not be successful in generating sufficient cash from operations or in raising capital in sufficient amounts on acceptable terms. The failure to generate sufficient cash flows or to raise sufficient funds may require the Company to delay or abandon some or all of its development and expansion plans or otherwise forego market opportunities and may make it difficult for the Company to respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations, and financial condition. While the Company may seek to raise capital through the offering of Common stock in a private placement, there can be no assurance that the proceeds in any such Offering will be sufficient to permit the Company to implement its proposed business plan or that any assumptions relating to the implementation of such plan will prove to be accurate. To the extent that the proceeds of any such Offering are not sufficient to enable the Company to generate meaningful revenues or achieve profitable operations, the inability to obtain additional financing will have a material adverse effect on the Company. There can be no assurance that any such financing will be available to the Company on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Implementation of Business Plan The Company currently does not have sufficient working capital to pursue our business plan in its entirety as described herein. Our ability to implement our business plan will depend on our ability to obtain sufficient working capital and to execute the business plan. No assurance can be given that we will be able to obtain additional capital, or, if available, that such capital will be available at terms acceptable to us, or that we will be able to generate profit from operations, or if profits are generated, that they will be sufficient to carry out our business plan, or that the plan will not be modified. 11 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company received a comment letter from the Securities and Exchange Commission dated November 22, 2010 (the “Comment Letter”). The Comment Letter propounded thirty (30) comments relating to the Company's: (a) Annual Report on Form 10-K filed for the period ending December 31, 2009; (b) Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ending September 30, 2009; (c) Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ending March 31, 2010; and (d) Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 25, 2010. We determined that our previously reported financial results for the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2009 and 2008 were not reviewed by the Company’s auditors. However, by reason of unintentional oversight, the Company erroneously failed to label those results as having been “Not Reviewed”. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the annual financial results of the Company were audited in 2009 and 2008. Moreover, we further determined that management's discussion provided in various parts of the quarterly reports were not adequate to provide an accurate basis for review. The Company further determined that, through an unintentional oversight, it had failed to file certain updated and amended documents relating to its acquisition of the Chattanooga auction business that were changed from the time the documents were initially executed and/or incorporated into the master documents as filed on Form 8-K on September 16, 2009, and the date of final closing of the transactions on December 26, 2009. Accordingly, we made necessary conforming changes in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” resulting from the correction of these errors, and relabeled certain financial information as “Not Reviewed” where applicable. We further submitted additional information updating the changes to the acquisition documents relating to the Chattanooga auction. On October 19, 2012 the Company filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission its response to the Comment Letter, the amendment on Form 10-K/A for the period ended December 31, 2009, the amendment on Form 10-Q/A for the period ended September 30, 2009, the amendment on Form 10-Q/A for the period ended March 31, 2010, and the amendment to Form 8-K/A for events first reported on September 16, 2009 in connection with the prior presentment of our financial statements, management's discussion and analysis thereof, controls and procedures and information presented on Forms 8-K. Management does not consider any of the previously reported financial information to have contained material deficiencies. As such, those amendments did not reflect any material changes to the financial statements of the Company, but were changed to properly reflect information related to financial reporting and discussions within those reports. 