Item 1A Risk Factors Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2 Properties Item 3 Legal Proceedings Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6 Selected Financial Data Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A Controls and Procedures Item 9B Other Information PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Item 11 Executive Compensation Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence PART IV Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules Signatures All financial amounts are in thousands except share and per share data. NOTE REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7, contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, as well as assumptions that, if they never materialize or prove incorrect, could cause the results of MGT Capital Investments, Inc and its consolidated subsidiaries (the “Company”) to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including any projections of revenue, gross margin, expenses, earnings or losses from operations, synergies or other financial items; any statements of the plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations, including the rate of market development and acceptance of medical imaging technology; the execution of restructuring plans; any statement concerning developments, performance or industry rankings relating to products or services; any statements regarding future economic conditions or performance; any statements of expectation or belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. The risks, uncertainties and assumptions referred to above include the performance of contracts by suppliers, customers and partners; employee management issues; the difficulty of aligning expense levels with revenue changes; and other risks that are described herein, including but not limited to the specific risks areas discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 of this report, and that are otherwise described from time to time in the Company’s Securities and Exchange Commission reports filed after this report. The Company assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements. The Company’s main operating currency is UK sterling (£). 1 PART I ITEM 1 BUSINESS MGT Capital Investments, Inc (“MGT”, “we”, “us” or “the Company”), is a holding company in the global Healthcare Information Technology (“HCIT”) sector. We currently have a controlling interest in our two main operating subsidiaries: Medicsight PLC (“Medicsight”) and Medicexchange PLC (“Medicexchange”). We also have wholly owned subsidiaries MGT Capital Investments (UK) Limited, MGT Investments (Gibraltar) Limited, Medicexchange Inc., Medicsight Nominees Limited, HTTP Tech Inc. and Medical Vision Systems Inc. · Medicsight and its wholly owned subsidiaries is a medical imaging software development company listed on the AIM market of the London Stock Exchange (Ticker symbol “MDST”) that develops and commercializes enterprise-wide Computer-Aided Detection (“CAD”) applications which analyze Computer Tomography (“CT”) scans to assist radiologists in the early detection and measurement of colorectal polyps and lung lesions. The Company holds 85 million shares (55%) of the 155 million issued share capital of Medicsight. · Medicexchange and its majority owned subsidiaries provide medical imaging professionals with a global web portal containing an online sales channel for diagnostic, treatment and surgery planning solutions. This combined with a variety of relevant clinical papers, training materials and content gives these professionals access to information and products that they otherwise would have difficulty accessing. The Company holds 22.5 million shares (73%) of the 30.8 million issued share capital of Medicexchange. Medicexchange’s shares are not publicly traded. Medicsight Medicsight is a medical imaging software development company and one of the world’s leading developers of enterprise-wide CAD software which analyzes CT scans to assist radiologists in the early detection and measurement of lung lesions and colorectal polyps. Early detection of cancer is the key to better prognosis, less invasive and lower treatment costs, and higher survival rates. Our CAD software applications are intended to aid clinicians in the early detection of potential abnormalities. Medicsight has focused on two of the leading causes of death, colorectal cancer (also known as colon or bowel cancer) and lung cancer. Colon Cancer World Health Organization data shows that colon cancer causes 655,000 deaths each year. Colon cancer is one of the most prevalent cancers in western countries, and is likely to grow faster in developing countries whose populations are consuming more and more of a western style diet. If detected early enough, 90 percent of cases can be 100 percent curable. Many western countries operate colon cancer screening programs, and Computer Tomography Colonography (“CTC”) is ideally suited for population screening of asymptomatic adults. Lung Cancer Lung cancer is the most common and deadliest of all cancers. Worldwide 1.3 million cases of lung cancer are diagnosed each year, and the disease accounts for 17.1 per cent of all global cancer deaths. The link between smoking and lung cancer has long been accepted. Clinical research has shown that if detected early and treated, there is more than an 85 per cent chance of a ten year survival rate from lung cancer. As smoking increases in Asia, it is predicted that the number of cases of lung cancer diagnosed each year in Asia will dramatically increase over the next decade. 2 Products Medicsight develops and markets ColonCAD, LungCAD and a new MedicRead visualization software application. The ColonCAD and LungCAD software (and their previous versions, ColonCAR and LungCAR) are application programmable interfaces (“APIs”) which have been seamlessly integrated into our partners’ advanced 3D visualization workstations to give the clinical user a combined visualization and detection solution. ColonCAD During the year Medicsight’s Research and Development Team made a number of enhancements to ColonCAD. This has resulted in a further improvement in its detection rate of colonic polyps. According to a recent study, ColonCAD has demonstrated a sensitivity of 85% for colonic polyps of size 5mm and larger, and 95% for polyps of 10mm and larger. Polyp size is the main criterion for follow-up action on a positive finding; polyps in the 6 to 9 mm range are monitored whilst 10mm or greater polyps are recommended for optical colonoscopy follow-up and possible removal. This is our most sensitive ColonCAD release to date and has been integrated into the visualization workstations of our partners. We believe that this version of Medicsight ColonCAD is one of the world’s leading colon CAD solutions. The product has been developed and validated using a large database of CT scans from hospitals around the world and has been assessed in many clinical studies, the results of which have been published in peer-reviewed publications and at leading radiology conferences. LungCAD In 2007 we enhanced our LungCAD software application, complementing our LungCAD nodule detection and measurement tools with additional features to create a disease management suite which we believe will meet the clinical needs of lung imaging specialists. MedicRead In May 2007 we launched MedicRead Colon — which is Medicsight’s own advanced visualization software application. MedicRead Colon can be deployed either on a standalone basis or into an existing clinical IT infrastructure. We believe MedicRead Colon is a flexible option for hospitals and clinics unable to invest large capital sums in new image analysis infrastructure. The next version of the product will be released in 2008. Clinical Activity Medicsight’s clinical team continued its work with Medicsight’s global network of medical luminaries. Medicsight’s ColonCAD application is involved in a number of government-funded studies looking at the sensitivity of CTC and the comparison of CTC with existing imaging methods for the early detection of colorectal cancer. The British Special Interest Group in Gastrointestinal and Abdominal Radiology (“SIGGAR”) finished recruiting patients in November 2007 for the largest UK randomized control trial to date. Medicsight CAD is the only CAD product to be involved in this trial which compares CTC with Optical Colonoscopy and Barium Enema x-ray. Results are expected to be available in mid-2008. 3 The Medicsight ColonCAD software is also integrated into the visualization software used to read CTC examinations for the French STIC trial “Sciences et Technologies de l’information et de la Communication (Information and Communication Science and Technology)”. Recruitment for this trial will continue throughout 2008. The Japanese National Cancer Centre in Tokyo has adopted Medicsight ColonCAD for the first CTC colon cancer screening program in Japan. In Japan, Medicsight supported, in co-operation with Toshiba Medical Systems (“Toshiba”), two CTC training workshops at the Japanese Radiological Society (“JRS”), the largest Japanese radiology congress, and the Japan Digestive Disease Week (“JDDW”) conference, the largest Japanese gastroenterological conference. Within the training programs, the effectiveness of ColonCAD was demonstrated reflecting the way it is used at the Japanese National Cancer Centre, Tokyo. As a result of the success of these workshops, additional training programs are planned for 2008. There has also been significant progress in the USA in relation to the acceptance of CTC into mainstream medical practice. In September 2007 the American College of Radiology Imaging Network (“ACRIN”) concluded a national trial in the USA to clinically validate the widespread application of CTC as a screening tool for the detection of colon cancer. The preliminary results have shown the benefits of CTC in both clinical and economic terms. A further study conducted by the University of Wisconsin Medical Center, the results of which were published in the New England Journal of Medicine in October 2007, supported the use of CTC as a primary screening tool. On 5 March 2008, the American Cancer Society (“ACS”) issued new Colorectal Cancer Screening guidelines recommending that CTC be added to the panel of tests that physicians have at their disposal when screening for colorectal cancer. The ACS endorsement is expected to lead to routine reimbursement for CTC and to a material increase in the use of CTC for screening those populations who are most at risk of developing this devastating condition. CTC as a diagnostic examination for the early detection of colorectal cancer is increasingly becoming accepted as mainstream clinical practice. The Virtual Screening for Cancer Act 2007 was introduced in the US Congress in December 2007. If passed into law, the bill would allow CTC to form part of the US government’s Medicare program and under certain circumstances would allow full reimbursement. This measure should increase the number of CTC examinations performed in the US and provide a significant revenue opportunity for Medicsight. The Company is monitoring this development closely. Medicsight’s products have been profiled at major international radiology conferences throughout 2007. The Company exhibited its ColonCAD and MedicRead Colon applications at (a) the Radiological Society of North America (“RSNA”) annual meeting in Chicago in November 2007; (b) the European Congress of Radiology (“ECR”) annual meeting (Vienna, March 2007); and (c) the European Society of Gastrointestinal and Abdominal Radiology (“ESGAR”) in June 2007; as well as exhibiting at other international radiology conferences. In 2007 Medicsight continued its support of education within the international medical community by sponsoring US and European CTC workshops. These workshops train radiologists to interpret CTC images using the latest visualization and CAD technology. Regulatory Environment Our CAD software applications are medical devices and require local regulatory approvals. In the USA, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is the regulatory authority. In Europe, regulatory approval is gained through Conformité Europeène (CE) marking. Other markets such as China (SFDA — State Food & Drug Administration); Japan (MHLW — Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare); Australia (TGA — Therapeutic Goods Administration); South Korea (KFDA — Korea Food & Drugs Administration); and Canada (CMDCAS — Canadian Medical Device Conformity Assessment System) have their own regulatory bodies, but these countries often require foreign applicants 4 to show evidence of an existing CE or FDA approval for a product before gaining approval in the local market. At the beginning of 2007 the Company’s ColonCAD and LungCAD products had regulatory approval only in the European Union (CE Marking). During 2007 the Company was granted Medical Device Licenses from the Therapeutic Products Directorate of Health in Canada and from the Department of Health and Ageing Therapeutic Goods Administration of Australia for ColonCAD, LungCAD and MedicRead Colon; and MedicRead Colon was CE Marked in the European Union. Applications are ongoing for FDA clearance in the USA and for regulatory approval in China, Japan and Brazil. These are expected to be granted in 2008. Markets & Opportunity We market our ColonCAD and LungCAD products through partners. The Company has signed a number of non-exclusive integration and distribution agreements with the following visualization partners: · Vital Images Inc — ColonCAD has been integrated into Vital’s CTC application which is part of the Vitrea software package; · TeraRecon Inc —have successfully integrated ColonCAD and LungCAD into the Aquarius family of medical imaging applications; · Viatronix Inc — ColonCAD and LungCAD have been successfully integrated into the Viatronix V3D Colon and V3D Explorer software; · 3mensio Medical Imaging BV — have integrated ColonCAD and LungCAD into the 3viseon application; · Barco NV - have integrated ColonCAD into the Voxar 3D ColonMetrix application. In February 2008 Medicsight signed a Preliminary Agreement with the System Integration (PACS) Division of Toshiba for the resale of MedicRead Colon in Japan. Medicsight is also in discussion with a number of other major imaging companies and expects to finalize distribution agreements in America, Asia and Europe in 2008. Revenue and Growth Strategy The year ended December 31, 2007 saw Medicsight book its first ColonCAD revenues through its partners in Europe. We plan to build on this and accelerate revenues through: · signing new distribution agreements for the Colon and Lung CAD products and the MedicRead applications; · continuing to invest in improved clinical awareness and validation; · working with governments, international health organizations and medical institutions to promote the benefits of early disease detection and to publicize the potential for population screening programs to reduce premature deaths from diseases that can be curable if detected early in the disease process; 5 · actively promoting CAD through support of accredited training programs; · introducing additional products into the Company’s portfolio by a combination of internal research and development and acquisitions. Competition The Company’s competitors can be divided into two categories: (a) MDCT scanner manufacturers such as GE, Hitachi, Philips, Siemens and Toshiba; and (b) independent CAD software providers. A number of MDCT manufacturers offer CAD solutions that are available in European markets, however currently the only FDA approved CAD is Siemens Lung CAD. In the CAD vendor market, there are a number of small, independent software providers, which include: · im3D (Italy) — have developed a Colon CAD product that is CE certified but not FDA cleared; · Median Technologies (France) — have developed a Colon CAD product and a Lung CAD (CAD-lung) — both have CE approval but not FDA clearance; · Hologic Inc. (R2) (USA) — have developed a Lung CAD product that is FDA approved. Medicsight’s admission to the AIM Market of the London Stock Exchange On June 21, 2007, Medicsight completed its initial public offering on the AIM Market of the London Stock Exchange. 29 million new shares were issued to institutional and other investors at a price of £1.10 ($2.20) per share raising £32,000 ($64,115) gross new money. Medicsight incurred fees of £1,550 ($3,096), including fees of $298 with Asia IT Capital Investments Ltd (a related party). £5,500 ($11,100) of the net proceeds were used to repay debt (between Medicsight and the Company). The remaining £24,900 ($49,800) cash inflow from the IPO will be used for working capital and business development. Immediately prior to the Medicsight IPO, the Company sold down, by private placement 11.7 million of its Medicsight PLC shares. The shares were priced at £1.10 ($2.20) — the same price as the Medicsight IPO. Gross proceeds on the private placement were £12,845 ($25,736). We incurred fees with Asia IT Capital Investments Ltd (a related party) of £578 ($1,167). These proceeds were received on July 27, 2007. After the Company’s private placement and the Medicsight IPO, the Company holds 85 million (55%) of the 155 million issued share capital of Medicsight. On December 31, 2007, Medicsight PLC shares closed at a price of £1.06 ($2.12), valuing MGT’s 85 million shares at $180,000. 6 Medicexchange PLC Medicexchange PLC operates Medicexchange.com, an online portal for radiologists and medical imaging professionals. Medicexchange PLC also has operations in Beijing, (China) offering western vendors a sales, regulatory and marketing route into the Chinese market place. Medicexchange.com Medicexchange.com was launched in November 2006 and provides users with: (a) daily news coverage from over 240 original author sources; (b) conference coverage including exclusive reports and interviews; (c) product and clinical community news; (d) job and recruitment boards; and (e) clinical product information and the opportunity to buy on-line. Medicexchange.com is aimed at the estimated 1.2 million plus medical imaging professionals around the world, many of whom from market research stated a preference for the concept of web-based downloadable products and a “per use” pricing model. China operations In Fiscal 2007, Medicexchange opened an office in Beijing and has established a distribution network with access to over 1,000 distributors serving 80% of tier 1 and 2 urban hospitals. Medicexchange now offers sales, marketing and regulatory affairs consulting services for medical vendors to enter the Chinese market. Employees As of December 31, 2007, the Company and its subsidiaries had 80 employees, all of whom are full-time employees. Our employees are not part of a union. We believe that we have an excellent relationship with our employees. Patents and Trademarks Protection of our proprietary technology and our rights over that technology, from copy or unchallenged and improper use, is essential to our future success. Any challenges to, or disputes concerning, our core technology may result in great expense to us, delays in bringing products to market and disruption of our focus on our core activities. They may also result in loss of rights over our technology or the right to operate in particular markets due to adverse legal decisions against us. Medicsight has filed patent applications in the United Kingdom, the United States, the European Patent Office, Japan, South Korea, Australia, Canada, and under the International Patent Cooperation Treaty (which currently has 128 member countries) covering our core technologies and their applications. We have recently filed new patent applications covering technology of both Medicsight CAD and Medicexchange and intend to continue filing new applications in the future. Two patents have been granted in the US covering aspects of Medicsight CAD technology. Although prior art searches have been carried out, we cannot provide assurance that any or all of the pending patents will be granted or that they will not be challenged, or that rights granted to us will actually provide us with advantage over our competitors. Medicsight actively reviews third party patents and is not currently aware of any that our products will infringe. “Medicsight”®, “Medicsight Colon Screen”®, “Medicsight Lung Screen”®, “Medicsight Colon CAR”®, “Medicsight Lung CAR”®, “Medicsight Computer Assisted Reader” ®, “Medicsight See More, Save More” ® and “Lung CAR” ® have been registered as trademarks in the United Kingdom. “Medicsight”® has also been registered in the United States, the European Union, Australia, China and a number of other countries. “MedicRead”® has been registered as a trademark in the European Union. These trademarks are important to the corporate identity in connection with Medicsight CAD. Failure to register appropriate patents, copyrights or trademarks in any jurisdiction may impede our ability to create brand awareness in our products, result in expenses in pursuing our rights with respect to our intellectual property, or result in lost revenues due to intellectual property disputes. Where we may be required to purchase 7 licenses from sellers with prior rights in any country, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so at a commercially acceptable cost. Financial Information about Medicsight and Medicexchange Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements provides information on the Company’s segment reporting. General MGT was originally incorporated as a Utah corporation in 1977 and was re-incorporated in Delaware in 2000. At December 31, 2007 the Company’s authorized share capital was 75,000,000 shares of common stock, par value of $0.001. In January 2007 the Company changed its name from Medicsight Inc. to MGT Capital Investments Inc. At March 17, 2008, 38,294,982 shares of our common stock had been issued. Our principal executive office is located at Kensington Centre, 66 Hammersmith Road, London W14 8UD, United Kingdom, telephone 011-44-207-605-1151, facsimile 011-44-207-605-1171. Our web address is www.mgtci.com. Information on our website is not deemed to be a part of this Annual Report. Available information We will provide, upon request and free of charge, paper copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, including any amendments to the foregoing reports, as soon as is reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. These materials along with our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics are also available through our corporate website at www.mgtci.com. A copy of this annual report on Form 10-K is located at the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The public may also download these materials from the Securities and Exchange Commission’s website at http://www.sec.gov. Any amendments to, and waivers of, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics will be posted on our corporate website. 8 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Discussion of our business and operations included in this annual report on Form 10-K should be read together with the risk factors set forth below. They describe various risks and uncertainties to which we are or may become subject. These risks and uncertainties, together with other factors described elsewhere in this report, have the potential to affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies or prospects in a material and adverse manner. New risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect financial performance. Each of the risks described below could adversely impact the value of our securities. These statements, like all statements in this report, speak only as of the date of this report (unless another date is indicated), and we undertake no obligation to update or revise the statements in light of future developments. We cannot assure you that MGT will be successful in commercializing the Medicsight CAD products or the Medicexchange portal, or if the products or the portal are commercialized, that they will be profitable to the Company. We face obstacles in commercializing the Medicsight CAD products and the Medicexchange portal and in generating operating revenues as detailed below. MGT has had only a limited operating history and has just commenced generating revenue from operations upon which an evaluation of its prospects can be made. MGT’s prospects must be considered keeping in mind the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered in the establishment of a new business in a constantly changing industry. There can be no assurance that MGT will be able to achieve profitable operations in the foreseeable future or at all. MGT has identified a number of specific risk areas that may affect MGT’s operations and results in the future: Technical Risks: The Medicsight CAD system may not deliver the levels of accuracy and reliability needed, or the development of such accuracy and reliability may be delayed. Market Risk: The market for the Medicsight CAD products and Medicexchange.com may be slower to develop or smaller than estimated or it may be more difficult to build the market than anticipated. The medical community may resist Medicsight CAD and the Medicexchange.com products or be slower to accept them than we anticipate. Revenues from Medicsight CAD and Medicexchange.com may be delayed or costs may be higher than anticipated which may result in the Company requiring additional funding. Regulatory Risks: The Medicsight CAD system is subject to regulatory requirements in the United States of America, Europe, Japan, China and our other targeted markets. Necessary regulatory approvals may not be obtained or may be delayed. We may incur substantial additional cost in obtaining regulatory approvals for our products in our targeted markets. Competitive Risk: There are a number of groups and organizations, such as software companies in the medical imaging field, MDCT scanner manufacturers, screening companies and other healthcare providers that may develop a competitive offering to the Medicsight CAD products and Medicexchange.com. In addition these competitors may have significantly greater resources than MGT. We cannot make any assurance that they will not attempt to develop such offerings, that they will not be successful in developing such offerings or that any offerings they do develop will not have a competitive edge over Medicsight CAD products and Medicexchange.com. Financial Risk: MGT has incurred significant operating losses since inception and has only recently commenced generating revenues from operations. As a result, MGT has generated negative cash flows from operations and has 9 an accumulated deficit at December 31, 2007. MGT is operating in a developing industry based on new technology and its primary source of funds to date has been through the issuance of securities and borrowed funds. While MGT is optimistic and believes appropriate actions are being taken, there can be no assurance that management’s efforts will be successful or that the products MGT develops and markets will be accepted by consumers. Corporate Structure: MGT’s corporate structure may make it more difficult or costly to take certain actions. MGT conducts its business through: (a) Medicsight, a UK public company which is 55% owned by the Company, and through Medicsight’s subsidiaries in the United Kingdom, the United States, Japan and Gibraltar and; (b) the Medicexchange subsidiaries, in which MGT’s holdings range between 75% and 100%. Although MGT, Medicsight and Medicexchange share some directors and management, they are required to comply with corporate governance and other laws and rules applicable to public companies in the United Kingdom and the United States. Should MGT propose to take any action, such as a transfer or allocation of assets or liabilities between MGT and its subsidiaries, MGT would have to take into consideration the potentially conflicting interests of MGT’s stockholders and the minority stockholders. This may deter MGT from taking such actions that might otherwise be in the best interest of MGT or cause MGT to incur additional costs in taking such actions. The subsidiary companies would not be able to pay dividends or make other distributions of profits or assets to MGT without making pro-rata payments or distributions to the respective minority stockholders. Although neither the subsidiary companies nor MGT has plans to pay dividends or make distributions to its shareholders, MGT’s corporate structure may deter its subsidiaries from doing so in the future. The protection of our intellectual property may be uncertain, and we may face possible claims of others: Although we have received patents and have filed patent applications with respect to certain aspects of our technology, we generally do not rely on patent protection with respect to our products and technologies. Instead, we rely primarily on a combination of trade secret and copyright law, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements and other protective measures to protect intellectual property rights pertaining to our products and technologies. Such measures may not provide meaningful protection of our trade secrets, know-how or other intellectual property in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure. Others may independently develop similar technologies or duplicate our technologies. In addition, to the extent that we apply for any patents, such applications may not result in issued patents or, if issued, such patents may not be valid or of value. Third parties could, in the future, assert infringement or misappropriation claims against us with respect to our current or future products and technologies, or we may need to assert claims of infringement against third parties. Any infringement or misappropriation claim by us or against us could place significant strain on our financial resources, divert management’s attention from our business and harm our reputation. The costs of prosecuting or defending an intellectual property claim could be substantial and could adversely affect our business, even if we are ultimately successful in prosecuting or defending any such claims. If our products or technologies are found to infringe the rights of a third party, we could be required to pay significant damages or license fees or cease production, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business would be harmed: We expect to rapidly expand our operations and grow our sales, research and development and administrative operations. This expansion is expected to place a significant strain on our management and will require hiring a significant number of qualified personnel. Accordingly, recruiting and retaining such personnel in the future will be critical to our success. There is intense competition from other companies, research and academic institutions, government entities and other organizations for qualified personnel in the areas of our activities. If we fail to identify, attract, retain and motivate these highly skilled personnel, we may be unable to continue our marketing and development activities. If we do not effectively manage changes in our business, these changes could place a significant strain on our management and operations and, as a result, our business might not succeed: Our ability to grow successfully requires an effective planning and management process. The expansion and growth of our business could place a significant strain on our management systems, infrastructure and other resources. To manage our growth successfully, we must continue to improve and expand our systems and infrastructure in a timely and efficient manner. Our controls, systems, procedures and resources may not be adequate to support a changing and growing company. If our management fails to respond effectively to changes and growth in our business, including acquisitions, such failure could have a material adverse effect on our business. 10 Foreign Exchange Risks: As MGT’s main operating currency is UK sterling (£) and its financial statements are reported in US Dollars, MGT’s assets and liabilities and its results of operations are affected by movements in the $:£ exchange rate. Other Risks: MGT’s ability to deliver its software could be hindered by risks such as the loss of key personnel or the patents and trademarks being successfully challenged or credit facilities being reduced or terminated by lenders. Internal Controls: Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. In addition, as a consequence of such failure, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to prevent reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, we could be subject to regulatory action or other litigation and our operating results could be harmed. Commencing with our fiscal year ending December 31, 2007, we were required to document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires our management to annually asses the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on these assessments. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal accounting controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could cause us to face regulatory action and also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, either of which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 