risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations would suffer. In this case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and investors might lose all or part of their investment in our common stock. We have a history of losses, and we must successfully execute our current business plan if we are to sustain our operations. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, we had negative cash flows from our operations of $43.5 million and $19.9 million, respectively. Except for the second, third, and fourth quarters of fiscal 2005, we have historically reported negative cash flows from operations, because the gross profit, if any, generated from our operations has not been sufficient to cover our operating cash requirements. Since our inception, we have incurred a cumulative loss aggregating $742.2 million, which includes net losses of $63.2 million for fiscal 2007 (excluding $3.6 million deemed dividend for beneficial conversion feature of preferred stock), $23.5 million in fiscal 2006, $6.2 million in fiscal 2005, $106.8 million in fiscal 2004, and $87.6 million in fiscal 2003. The cumulative net losses since inception have reduced stockholders’ equity to $1.6 million at December 31, 2007. In 2007, we streamlined and restructured our operations to focus on our core business of developing and licensing intellectual property and technology. As a result of our operational streamlining activities, we have ceased to pursue engineering services as a separate line of business, ceased our operations relating to microprocessor production support, and exited the business of selling microprocessor products. We will focus on our primary line of business in developing and licensing our advanced technologies and intellectual property in 2008. We substantially restructured our operations and changed our business plan in 2007, and we might fail to operate successfully under our current business plan. In 2007, we substantially restructured our operations and reduced our workforce to focus on our core business of developing and licensing intellectual property and technology. We might not succeed in operating under our business plan for many reasons. These reasons include the risks that we might not be able to continue developing viable technologies, achieve market acceptance for our technologies, earn adequate revenues from our licensing business, or achieve profitability. Employee concern about such risks or the effect of our restructuring plan on their workloads or continued employment might cause our employees to seek or accept other employment, depriving us of the human and intellectual capital that we need in order to succeed. Because we necessarily lack historical operating and financial results for our current business plan, it will be difficult for us, as well as for investors, to 7 Table of Contents predict or evaluate our business prospects and performance. Our business prospects must be considered in light of the uncertainties and difficulties frequently encountered by companies undergoing a business transition or in the early stages of development. We might lose key technical or management personnel, on whose knowledge, leadership and technical expertise we rely. Such losses could prevent us from operating successfully under our current business plan. Our success under our current business plan depends heavily upon the contributions of our key technical and management personnel, whose knowledge, leadership and technical expertise would be difficult to replace. Many of these individuals have developed specialized knowledge and skills relating to our technologies and business. Our restructuring plan resulted in substantial headcount reductions in 2007, and employee concern about the future of the business and their continued prospects for employment may cause our employees to seek employment elsewhere, depriving us of the human and intellectual capital we need to be successful. We have also had substantial turnover in our management team during 2007, including the February 2007 appointment of Lester M. Crudele as our president and chief executive officer, the August 2007 appointment of Sujan Jain as our chief financial officer, the December 2007 appointment of Daniel L. Hillman as our vice president of engineering, and the separation of several former officers from Transmeta during the first half of 2007. All of our executive officers and key personnel are employees at will. We have no individual employment contracts and do not maintain key person insurance on any of our personnel. We might not be able to execute on our business model if we were to lose the services of any of our key personnel. If any of these individuals were to leave our company unexpectedly, we could face substantial difficulty in hiring qualified successors and could experience a loss in productivity while any such successor develops the necessary training and experience. Our recent restructuring and the evolution of our business could place significant strain on our management systems, infrastructure and other resources, and our business may not succeed if we fail to manage such changes effectively. Our ability to succeed under our current business plan after restructuring our operations in 2007 requires effective planning and management process. Changes in our business plans could place significant strain on our management systems, infrastructure and other resources. In addition, we expect that we will continue to improve our financial and managerial controls and procedures. If we fail to manage these processes and resources effectively, our employee-related costs and employee turnover could increase and our business may not succeed. Our current business plan depends on increasing our LongRun2 licensing revenue, and we might be unsuccessful in our efforts to license our LongRun2 technology to other parties. Our licensing business depends on our successful attraction of new licensees. Our ability to enter into new LongRun2 licensing agreements depends in part upon the adoption of our LongRun2 technology by our licensees and potential licensees, and the success of the products incorporating our technology sold by licensees. While we anticipate that we will continue our efforts to license our technology to licensees, we cannot predict the timing or the extent of any future licensing revenue, and past levels of license revenues may not be indicative of future periods. We have limited visibility regarding when and to what extent our licensees will use our LongRun2 or other licensed technologies, and we might be unsuccessful in our efforts to generate royalty revenue. We have earned only limited royalties from one of our LongRun2 licensees, and we have not yet earned nor received any royalties from any of our other LongRun2 licensees. Our receipt of royalties from our LongRun2 licenses depends on our licensees’ incorporating our technology into their manufacturing and products, bringing their products to market, and the success of their products. Our licensees are not contractually obligated to manufacture, distribute or sell products using our licensed technologies. Thus, our entry into and full performance of our obligations under our LongRun2 licensing agreements do not necessarily assure us of any future royalty revenue. Any royalties that we are eligible to receive are based upon our licensees’ use of our licensed technologies and, as a result, we do not have direct access to information that would enable us to forecast the timing and amount 8 Table of Contents of any future royalties. Factors that negatively affect our licensees and their customers could adversely affect our future royalties. The success of our licensees is subject to a number of factors, including: • the competition that our licensees face and the market acceptance of their products; • the pricing policies of our licensees for their products incorporating our technology; • the engineering, marketing and management capabilities of our licensees and technical challenges unrelated to our technology that they face in developing their products; and • the financial and other resources of our licensees. Because we do not control the business practices of our licensees and their customers, we have little influence or information regarding the extent to which our licensees promote or use our technology. We face intense competition in the development of advanced technologies. Our customers and competitors are much larger than we are and have significantly greater resources. We may not be able to compete effectively. The development of power management and transistor leakage control technologies is an emerging field subject to rapid technological change, and our competition for licensing such technologies, and providing related services, is unknown and could increase. Our LongRun2 technologies are highly proprietary and, though the subject of patents and patents pending, are marketed primarily as trade secrets subject to strict confidentiality protocols. Although we are not aware of any other company having developed, offered or demonstrated any comparable power management or leakage control technologies, we note that most semiconductor companies have internal efforts to reduce transistor leakage and power consumption in current and future semiconductor products. Indeed, all of our current and prospective licensees are larger, technologically sophisticated companies, which generally have significant resources and internal efforts to develop their own technological solutions. We might be unable to keep pace with technological change in our industry, and our technology offerings might not be competitive. The semiconductor industry is characterized by rapid technological change. Our technology offerings may not be competitive if we fail to develop and introduce new technology or technology enhancements that meet evolving customer demands. It may be difficult or costly for us, or we may not be able, to enhance existing technologies to fully meet customer demands, particularly in view of our recent restructuring of our operations. We might experience payment disputes for amounts owed to us under our LongRun2 licensing agreements, and such a dispute may harm our business results. The standard terms of our LongRun2 license agreements require our licensees to document the royalties owed to us from the sale of products that incorporate our technology and report this data to us on a quarterly basis. While standard license terms give us the right to audit books and records of our licensees to verify this information, audits can be expensive, time consuming, and potentially detrimental to our ongoing business relationship with our licensees. Our failure to audit our licensees’ books and records may result in us receiving more or less royalty revenues than we are entitled to under the terms of our license agreements. The result of such royalty audits could result in an increase, as a result of a licensee’s underpayment, or decrease, as a result of a licensee’s overpayment, to previously reported royalty revenues. Such adjustments would be recorded in the period they are determined. Any adverse material adjustments resulting from royalty audits or dispute resolutions may harm our business results and cause our stock price to decline. Royalty audits may also trigger disagreements over contract terms with our licensees and such disagreements could hamper customer relations, divert the efforts and attention of our management from normal operations and impact our business operations and financial condition. 9 Table of Contents We might experience payment disputes for amounts owed to us under our settlement agreement with Intel, and such a dispute may harm our financial and operational outlook. Our settlement agreement with Intel provides for Intel to make an initial $150 million payment to us as well as to make annual payments of $20 million for each of the next five years starting January 31, 2009. We received the initial $150 million payment in January 2008. If for any reason we do not receive all of the annual payments of $20 million for each of the next five years from Intel, our financial position and operational outlook would be adversely affected. We currently derive a substantial portion of our revenue from a small number of customers and licensees, and our operating results would be adversely affected if any customer were to cancel, reduce or delay a transaction. Our customer base is highly concentrated. For example, revenue from two customers in the aggregate accounted for 89% of total revenue during fiscal 2007. During fiscal 2006 and 2005, three customers in the aggregate accounted for 96% and 83% of total revenue, respectively. We expect that a small number of customers will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenue. Our customers and licensees are significantly larger than we are and have bargaining power to demand changes in terms and conditions of our agreements. Changes or delays in performance under our agreements could adversely affect our operating results. We may be unable to protect our proprietary technologies and defend our intellectual property rights. Our competitors might gain access to our technologies, and we might not compete successfully in our markets. We believe that our success will depend in part upon our proprietary technologies and intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws and contractual obligations with employees and third parties to protect our proprietary technologies and intellectual property. These legal protections provide only limited protection and may be time consuming and expensive to obtain and enforce. If we fail to protect our proprietary rights adequately, our competitors or potential licensees might gain access to our technology. As a result, our competitors might use or offer similar technologies, and we might not be able to compete successfully. Moreover, despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may copy aspects of our products and technologies, and obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Also, our competitors may independently develop similar, but not infringing, technologies, duplicate our technologies, or design around our patents or our other intellectual property. In addition, other parties may breach confidentiality agreements or other protective contracts with us, and we may not be able to enforce our rights in the event of these breaches. Furthermore, the laws of many foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights. We may initiate claims or litigation against third parties based on our proprietary rights. Any litigation surrounding our rights could force us to divert important financial and other resources from our business operations. Our pending patent applications may not be approved, and our patents, including any patents that may issue as a result of our patent applications, may not provide us with any competitive advantage or may be challenged by third parties. For example, beginning in March 2007, several months after we brought action against Intel for infringing certain of our patents, Intel filed requests to have those of our patents in suit reexamined by the Patent and Trademark Office (“PTO”), and the PTO granted all of Intel’s requests for reexamination. Such proceedings can be expensive and time consuming, perhaps taking several years to complete, and the schedule for such proceedings is difficult to predict and could be delayed for many reasons, including the increasing popularity of such proceedings. For example, the PTO has yet to take an initial action in most of the patent reexamination proceedings requested by Intel, and the timing of such proceedings is uncertain and can be delayed by many factors, including PTO workload. Our patents might not be upheld, or their claims could be narrowed through amendment, as a result of such proceedings. For example, in three of the reexamination proceedings initiated by Intel, we have proposed to amend 10 Table of Contents certain claims of our patents by adding limitations that we believe would improve those claims. Even the pendency of such proceedings may interfere with or impair our ability to enforce or license our patent rights. Any dispute regarding our intellectual property may require us to indemnify certain licensees or third parties, the cost of which could severely hamper our business operations and financial condition. In any potential dispute involving our patents or other intellectual property, our licensees could also become the target of litigation. Our LongRun2 license agreements and certain of our development services agreements provide limited indemnities. Our indemnification obligations could result in substantial expenses. In addition to the time and expense required for us to supply such indemnification to our licensees, a licensee’s development, marketing and sales of licensed products incorporating our LongRun2 technology could be severely disrupted or shut down as a result of litigation, which in turn could severely hamper our business operations and financial condition. We have significant international business relationships, which expose us to risk and uncertainties. Most of our current licensees are based in Asia, and many prospective business growth opportunities in our industry are outside of United States. In attempting to conduct and expand business internationally, we are exposed to various risks that could adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our operating results, including: • difficulties and costs of servicing international customers; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, including imposition of currency exchange controls; • longer accounts receivable collection cycles; • import or export licensing requirements; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • political and economic instability; and • potentially reduced protection for intellectual property rights. Our operating results are difficult to predict and fluctuate significantly. A failure to meet the expectations of investors could result in a substantial decline in our stock price. Our operating results fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, and we expect that our operating results will fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of one or more of the risks described in this section or as a result of numerous other factors. Additionally, a large portion of our expenses, including rent and salaries, is fixed or difficult to reduce.You should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. Our stock price has declined substantially since our stock began trading publicly. If our future operating results fail to meet or exceed the expectations of investors, our stock price could be adversely affected. A sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Significant sales by an investor or combination of investors during a period of relatively thin trading would likely depress the stock price, at least temporarily, and increase the market’s perception of historic volatility. 11 Table of Contents The price of our common stock has been volatile and is subject to wide fluctuations. The market price of our common stock has been volatile and is likely to remain subject to wide fluctuations in the future. Many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, including: • variations in our quarterly results; • market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers and the economy as a whole; • announcements of technological innovations by us or by our competitors; • introductions of new products or new pricing policies by us or by our competitors; • acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or by our competitors; • recruitment or departure of key personnel; • the gain or loss of significant customers; and • changes in the estimates of our operating performance or changes in recommendations by securities analysts. In addition, the stock market generally and the market for semiconductor and other technology-related stocks in particular has experienced declines for extended periods historically, and could decline from current levels, which could cause the market price of our common stock to fall for reasons not necessarily related to our business, results of operations or financial condition. The market price of our stock also might decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry, even if these events do not directly affect us. Accordingly, you may not be able to resell your shares of common stock at or above the price you paid. Securities litigation is often brought against a company following a period of volatility in the market price of its securities, and we have been subject to such litigation in the past. Any such lawsuits in the future will divert management’s attention and resources from other matters, which could also adversely affect our business and the price of our stock. If we were to raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders would be reduced, and these newly issued securities might have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our then-existing stockholders. For example, during third quarter of 2007 we sold preferred stock to AMD, and common stock and warrants to selected institutional investors. The exercise of such preferred rights or warrants by investors could have an adverse effect on the price of our stock. We might need to raise additional financing, which might not be available or might be available only on terms unfavorable to us or our stockholders. Although we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents and short-term investment balances and cash from operations (including $150 million in cash that we received in January 2008 from Intel) will be sufficient to fund our operations, planned capital and research and development expenditures for the next twelve months, it is possible that we may need to raise significant additional funds through public or private equity or debt. A variety of business contingencies could contribute to our need for funds in the future, including the need to: • fund expansion; • develop or enhance our products or technologies; • enhance our operating infrastructure; • respond to competitive pressures; or • acquire complementary businesses or technologies. If we were to raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders would be reduced, and these newly issued securities might have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our then-existing stockholders. For example, in order to raise equity financing, we may decide to sell our stock at a discount to our then current trading price, which may have an adverse effect on our future trading price. We might not be able to raise additional financing on terms favorable to us, or at all. 12 Table of Contents Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, stockholder rights plan and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage or prevent a takeover, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include: • establishing a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board may be elected at one time; • providing that directors may be removed only “for cause” and only with the vote of 662/3% of our outstanding shares; • requiring super-majority voting to amend some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws; • authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that our board could issue to increase the number of shares outstanding and to discourage a takeover attempt; • limiting the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, which requires all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; and • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board or for proposals that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, the stockholder rights plan, which we implemented in 2002, and Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control. Our business is subject to potential tax liabilities, which could change our effective tax rate. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and other foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, we cannot assure you that the final determination of any tax audits and litigation will not be materially different from that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. Should additional taxes be assessed as a result of an audit or litigation, there could be a material effect on our cash, income tax provision and net income in the period or periods for which that determination is made. Additionally, a number of factors may impact our future effective tax rates including: • the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; • the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; • adjustments to deferred tax assets utilized in 2007 to reduce the tax effect of various tax returns; • adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; • increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes; • changes in available tax credits and available net operating loss carryovers; • changes in the valuation of any deferred tax assets and liabilities; • changes in share-based compensation; or • changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws and changes in generally accepted accounting principles. 13 Table of Contents Our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates, and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies. The methods, estimates, and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations (see “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in Item 7 of this Form 10-K). Such methods, estimates, and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that lead us to change them. Changes in those methods, estimates, and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. In particular, the calculation of share-based compensation under SFAS No. 123(R) requires us to use valuation methodologies and a number of assumptions, estimates, and conclusions regarding matters such as expected forfeitures, expected volatility of our share price, the expected dividend rate with respect to our common stock, and the expected exercise behavior of our employees. Under applicable accounting principles, we cannot compare and adjust our expense when we learn about additional information affecting our previous estimates, with the exception of changes in expected forfeitures of share-based awards. Factors may arise over time that leads us to change our estimates and assumptions with respect to future share-based compensation arrangements, resulting in variability in our share-based compensation expense over time. Changes in forecasted share-based compensation expense could affect our cost of revenues; research and development expenses; selling, general and administrative expenses; and our effective tax rate. We may develop or identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. In compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we test our system of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31 of the applicable fiscal year. In our evaluation as of December 31, 2004, we identified six material weaknesses. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, that results in there being a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. The material weaknesses that we had identified affected all of our significant accounts. Certain of those material weaknesses resulted in a restatement of our previously filed financial results for the second quarter of fiscal 2004 and affected the balances of our inventories, other accrued liabilities and cost of revenue accounts. We have remediated all of those material weaknesses in our system of internal control over financial reporting, but our restructuring plan effected workforce reductions in our finance personnel during the second and third quarters of 2007, and we cannot assure you that we will not in the future develop or identify material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 