Item 1A. Risk Factors Our auditors have issued a going concern opinion with respect to our consolidated financial statements although our financial statements are prepared using generally accepted accounting principles applicable to a going concern. The Company has incurred significant losses as a consolidated entity since July 2007, losses that have continued since that time through fiscal 2012. These continuing losses raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, and our auditor's opinion with respect to our financial statements contain a going concern opinion. The accompanying audited consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability and classification of asset carrying amounts or the amount and classification of liabilities that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Because We Have Limited Operating History, it is Difficult to Evaluate Our Business. The Company began its operations as an automotive concern in July 2007 with the acquisition of one automobile auction, ultimately acquiring a second auction. Both those operations have now been discontinued as of July 31, 2012, and the Company is currently without operations. Because of our limited operating history and recent divestiture of core assets, you have very little operating and financial data about us upon which to base an evaluation. You should consider our prospects in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties we may encounter, including those frequently encountered by new companies. If we are unable to execute our plans and grow our business, either as a result of the risks identified in this section or for any other reason, this failure would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, business prospects, and financial condition. We plan to grow through acquisitions or mergers, and investors have little current basis to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the target businesses' operations or our ability to identify and integrate acquired operations into our company. To the extent we complete a business combination with a financially unstable company or an entity in its development stage, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of those entities. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. The purchase of our securities is a purchase of an interest in what should be considered as a high risk venture or in a new or “start-up” venture with all the unforeseen costs, expenses, problems, and difficulties to which such ventures are subject. 6 Table of Contents We plan to grow through acquisitions Because we intend to develop and expand our business through selective acquisitions of or mergers with other businesses, there are significant risks that we may not be successful. We may not be able to identify, acquire or profitably manage additional companies or assets or successfully integrate such additional companies or assets into our Company without substantial costs, delays or other problems. In addition, companies we may acquire may not be profitable at the time of their acquisition or may not achieve levels of profitability that would justify our investment. Acquisitions may involve a number of special risks, including but not limited to: · adverse short-term effects on our reported operating results, · diversion of management's attention, · dependence hiring, training, and retaining key personnel, · risks associated with unanticipated problems or legal liabilities, · amortization of acquired intangible assets, some or all of which could reflect poorly on our operating results and financial reports, · implementation or remediation of controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company at companies that, prior to the acquisition, lacked these controls, procedures and policies; and, · incursion of debt to make acquisitions or for other operating uses. We will seek to implement our acquisition strategy in certain industries that may be considered as mature We may acquire a business in what may be considered a mature industry in which single-digit or low double-digit growth may occur. Most growth for our Company would, accordingly, occur largely through acquisitions. To the extent that competitors are also seeking to grow through acquisitions, we could encounter competition for those acquisitions or a generally increasing price to acquire going concerns. A primary part of the Company’s strategy is to establish revenue through the acquisition of or merger with additional companies or operations. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to identify, acquire, combine with, or profitably manage additional companies or successfully integrate the operations of additional companies into those of the Company without encountering substantial costs, delays or other problems. In addition, there can be no assurance that companies acquired in the future will achieve or maintain profitability that justify liabilities that could materially adversely affect the Company's results of operations or financial condition. The Company may compete for acquisition, merger, and expansion opportunities with companies that have greater resources than the Company. There can be no assurance that suitable acquisition or merger candidates will be available, that purchase terms or financing for acquisitions or mergers will be obtainable on terms acceptable to the Company, that acquisitions or mergers can be consummated, or that acquired businesses can be integrated successfully and profitability into the Company’s operations. Further, the Company's results of operations in fiscal quarters immediately following a material acquisition or merger could be materially adversely affected while the Company integrates the acquired business into its existing structure. The Company will attempt to acquire or merge with business entities that are going and functioning concerns with a trailing history of profitability, but may acquire or merge with certain businesses that have either been unprofitable, have had inconsistent profitability prior to their acquisition or combination therewith, or that have had no operating history. An inability of the Company to improve the profitability of these acquired businesses could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Finally, the Company's acquisition and merger strategy places significant demands on the Company's resources and there can be no assurance that the Company's management and operational systems and structure can be expanded to effectively support the Company's acquisition strategy. If the Company is unable to successfully implement its acquisition and merger strategy, this inability could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations, or financial condition. The Company may face the opportunity to enhance shareholder value by being acquired by another company. Upon any acquisition of the Company, the Company would be subject to various risks, including the replacement of its management by persons currently unknown. There can also be no assurance that, if acquired, new management will be successfully integrated or can profitably manage the Company. In addition, any acquisition or merger of or by the Company may involve immediate dilution to existing shareholders of the Company. No assurances can be given that the Company will be able to or desire to be acquired, or be able to acquire or merge with additional companies. Need for Additional Financing The Company does not have adequate capital or resources to fund its operations and other capital needs for the next six months without new revenue sources or additional capital infusion, and there can be no assurance that such funds will become available in amounts sufficient to meet the obligations of our business. The Company may require additional amounts of capital for its future expansion and working capital, possibly from private placements of its common stock or borrowing, but there can be no assurance that such financing will be available, or that such financing will be available on acceptable terms. 7 Table of Contents Dependence on Key Personnel Our future performance depends in significant part upon the continued service of our Chief Executive Officer, Steven L. Sample. The loss of his services could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. The Company does not presently maintain key man life insurance on Mr. Sample, but may obtain such insurance at the discretion of its board of directors for such term as it may deem suitable or desirable. Our future success may depend on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical, sales and managerial personnel. The competition for such personnel can be intense, and there can be no assurance that we can attract, assimilate or retain highly qualified technical, sales and managerial personnel for favorable compensations in the future. Technological Change Technology, particularly the ability to use the Internet to conduct business and allow several management functions, is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new product and service announcements, introductions and enhancements, and changing customer demands. Our future success will to some degree depend on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies, our ability to adapt its solutions to meet evolving industry standards and our ability to improve continually the performance, features and reliability of its solutions. The failure of the Company to adapt successfully to such changes in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the Company will not experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful implementation of solutions, or that any new solutions or enhancements to existing solutions will adequately meet the requirements of its current and prospective customers and achieve any degree of significant market acceptance. If the Company is unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop and introduce new solutions or enhancements to existing solutions in a timely manner or in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, or if its solutions or enhancements do not achieve a significant degree of market acceptance, the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Competition Any industry served by the Company is likely to be highly competitive across the entire United States and Canada. We will potentially compete with a variety of companies, and as such will be subject to various levels of competition. There is no assurance the Company will be able to adhere to its plans or to engage in any acquisitions or mergers at all. Control The Company is effectively controlled by its CEO and Chairman, Steven L. Sample, who currently owns 48.91% of the Company’s issued and outstanding common stock. Mr. Sample will initially retain effective control over the Company’s operations, including the election of a majority of its board of directors, the issuance of additional shares of equity securities, and other matters of corporate governance, and based upon the Company's current business plan, it is anticipated that Mr. Sample will continue to have substantial influence over, if not effective control of the Company well into future, perhaps even after some potential subsequent issuances by the Company of new common shares for capital raising activities, acquisitions, or merger activities. Management of Growth The Company is continually seeking to identify and acquire viable businesses. As a result, the Company must manage relationships with a growing number of third parties as it seeks to accommodate this goal. The Company's management, personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support the Company’s future operations. The Company's ability to manage its growth effectively will require it to continue to expand its operating and financial procedures and controls, to replace or upgrade its operational, financial and management information systems and to attract, train, motivate, manage and retain key employees. If the Company's executives are unable to manage growth effectively, the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. If successful in acquiring or combining with other operations, the Company anticipates it may inherit a substantial portion of the staff necessary to operate the new entities, but there is no assurance that will happen, or that if it does happen, that the staff will remain employed by the Company for any period of time. We may find that some of the personnel and management of any acquisition target(s) may not be suitable for continued employment, while other suitable candidates may elect to discontinue their employment or affiliation with the Company for various reasons. This can create a burden on the Company’s management as it seeks to fill key positions. Failure of the Company to do so in a timely manner can result in disruption of operations, loss of revenues, and an attendant reduction in profits or even substantial losses. 8 Table of Contents Risks Associated with Expansion The Company desires to acquire or combine with other businesses, perhaps in diverse locations and markets. To date, the Company does not have experience in developing services on a regional or national scale. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to deploy successfully its goods or services in those markets. There are certain risks inherent in doing business in several diverse markets, such as; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, potentially adverse tax consequences, local restrictions, controls relating to inter-company communications and technology, difficulties in staffing and managing distant operations, fluctuations in manpower availability, effects of local competition, weather and climactic trends, and customer preferences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the success of the Company's operations and, consequently, on the Company's business, results of operations, and financial condition. Product and Service Offerings The Company has heretofore primarily been a service business. The Company may acquire or combine with non-service entities, including those involved in manufacturing, distribution, or otherwise. It is important to our future success to expand the breadth and depth of our offerings to be competitive and to enhance our potentials for growth of revenues and profits. Expansion of our categories and offerings in this manner will require significant additional expenditures and could strain our management, financial and operational resources. For example, we may find it prudent to build, outfit, and operate a manufacturing facility where one is not currently available. We cannot be certain that we would be able to do so in a cost-effective or timely manner or that we would be able to offer certain products or services in demand by our customers, or to do so in a quality manner. Furthermore, any new product or service offering that is not favorably received by the Company’s clients could damage our reputation. The lack of market acceptance of new products or services or our inability to generate satisfactory revenues from expanded product or service offerings to offset their costs could harm our business. If we do not successfully expand our sales operations, our revenues may fall below expectations. If we do not successfully expand our operations on an ongoing basis to accommodate increases in demand, we will not be able to fulfill our customers’ needs in a timely manner, which would harm our business. Most of our product or service operations are anticipated to be handled at our facilities, but some services may be performed at offsite locations or by approved vendors or contractors. Any future expansion may cause disruptions in our business and may be insufficient to meet our ongoing requirements. The Company may move into such diverse businesses as sales, manufacturing, marketing, or otherwise, and is not limited to considering only product or service business offerings. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in identifying new businesses, or if it can be successful in acquiring or merging with any new business if identified, Government Regulation and Legal Uncertainties Any new legislation or regulation, or the application of laws or regulations from jurisdictions whose laws do not currently apply to the Company's business could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. Check, Credit Card, and Other Fraud If the Company were to be involved in certain operations, our business could be harmed if we experienced significant credit, wire transfer, draft, check, credit card, or other fraud. If we fail to adequately control fraudulent transactions, our revenues and results of operations could be harmed. The Company may attempt to obtain insurance as partial protections from such potential losses, but while the Company’s exposure to loss in this event may be limited by the purchase of insurance, losses could nonetheless occur. Any losses sustained as a result of fraud or fraudulent activity would adversely affect the Company's business and results of operations, and its financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Liability Claims The Company may face costly liability claims by consumers or other businesses. Any claim of liability by a client, employee, consumer or other entity against us, regardless of merit, could be costly financially and could divert the attention of our management. It could also create negative publicity, which would harm our business. Although we maintain liability insurance, it may not provide protections in the event of certain liability claims, or may not be sufficient to cover a covered claim if one is made. Risks of Low Priced Stocks The Company’s shares were originally traded on the NASDAQ Exchange in 1996 through 2000 as Gibbs Construction under the trading symbol GBSE prior to that entity’s financial difficulties, after which it was moved to the OTC Pink Sheets. The Company’s trading currently remains limited to the OTC Pink Sheets under the trading symbol ACCA. The Company’s securities have been thinly traded, and while a trading market for the Company's common stock could develop further with new operations, there can be no assurance that it will do so. 9 Table of Contents The Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC” or “Commission”) has adopted regulations which define a “penny stock” to be any equity security, such as those of the Company, that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. In the event the Company determined to offer its common stock for sale, or elected to utilize its common stock in an acquisition of merger transaction, it would be required to advise the potential purchasers or parties to any such acquisition or merger transaction of the risks of penny stocks. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require the delivery, prior to any transaction involving a penny stock by a retail customer, of a disclosure schedule prepared by the Securities and Exchange commission relating to the penny stock market. Disclosure is also required to be made about commissions payable to both the broker/dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities. Accordingly, market makers may be less inclined to participate in marketing the Company’s securities, which may have an adverse impact upon the liquidity of the Company’s securities. If the Company were successful in identifying an acquisition or merger target, became successful in actually acquiring or merging with any such target, and was successful in bringing profitable operations to the Company, it would seek to meet the new listing requirements of the NASDAQ Capital market and attempt to return to that Exchange, which listing requirements include minimal capitalization, share price, and other benchmark requirements. There is no assurance the Company can successfully identify any suitable acquisition or merger candidate, or if successful in identifying a candidate that it can be successful in completing any acquisition or merger, or if successful in completing any acquisition or merger that the Company could be successful in meeting the new listing requirements of the NASDAQ, or if successful in meeting those requirements, that the NASDAQ would accept the Company as a member, or that if the Company were successful in achieving a listing on the NASDAQ exchange that its share values would improve. Any attempt to return to the NASDAQ Exchange, even if the Company were successful in meeting the requirements to do so, could take as long as two years or more to complete. No Assurance of Payment of Dividends Should the Company acquire additional operations, and should the operations of the Company become profitable, it is likely that the Company would retain much or all of its earnings in order to finance future growth and expansion. Therefore, the Company does not presently intend to pay dividends, and it is not likely that any dividends will be paid in the foreseeable future. Potential Future Capital Needs Should the Company acquire additional operations, the Company may not be successful in generating sufficient cash from operations or in raising capital in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms to meet its capital needs. The failure to generate sufficient cash flows or to raise sufficient funds may require the Company to delay or abandon some or all of its development and expansion plans or otherwise forego market opportunities, and may make it difficult for the Company to respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations, and financial condition. While the Company may seek to raise capital through the offering of common stock, there can be no assurance that the proceeds in any such offering will be sufficient to permit the Company to implement its proposed business plan or that any assumptions relating to the implementation of such plan will prove to be accurate. To the extent that the proceeds of any such offering are not sufficient to enable the Company to generate meaningful revenues or achieve profitable operations, the inability to obtain additional financing will have a material adverse effect on the Company. There can be no assurance that any such financing will be available to the Company on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or that the Company will be successful in finding new operations. Implementation of Business Plan The Company currently does not have sufficient working capital to pursue our business plan in its entirety as described herein. Our ability to implement our business plan will depend on our ability to obtain sufficient working capital and to execute its business plans. No assurance can be given that we will be able to obtain additional capital, or, if available, that such capital will be available at terms acceptable to us, or that we will be able to generate profit from operations, or if profits are generated, that they will be sufficient to carry out our business plans, or that the plans will not be modified. Limited Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The Company sold its Augusta auction operations, its only revenue producing operations, in the Augusta, Georgia, area on July 31, 2012, and has accounted for those operations as discontinued effective with its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 and on its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the periods ended March 31, June 30, and September 30, 2012. Accordingly, the Company will provide only limited components of its operational information in this report’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and has elected to eliminate certain information and comparative results to prior periods in this report, as they would not be reflective of similar results or provide a proper basis for review. 10 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 