ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Substantial Leverage—Due to our substantial leverage, we may have difficulty operating our business and satisfying our debt obligations. As of December 31, 2008, we have $543.2 million of total liabilities, $325.5 million of total debt and a stockholders' deficit of $43.5 million. While we have reduced our total debt from $407.7 million at the beginning of 2006, our debt remains significant. This substantial leverage may have important consequences for us, including the following: < Our ability to obtain additional or replacement financing for working capital, capital expenditures or other purposes may be impaired, or such financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, particularly in light of the current global market conditions for credit. Our revolving credit facility matures on August 9, 2009, our term loan matures on August 9, 2010 and our 87/8% senior subordinated notes are due on August 1, 2012. < A significant portion of our cash flow from operations is dedicated to the payment of interest expense, which reduces the funds that would otherwise be available to fund operations and future business opportunities. < A substantial decrease in net operating income and cash flows or an increase in expenses may make it difficult for us to meet our debt service requirements or force us to modify our operations. < Our substantial leverage may make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and competitive pressures. The agreements governing our senior credit facilities and the indenture for our 87/8% senior subordinated notes contain restrictions that affect our operations, including our and certain of our subsidiaries' ability to incur indebtedness or make acquisitions or capital expenditures. However, these restrictions do not fully prohibit us or our subsidiaries from incurring additional indebtedness or making certain types of acquisitions. In addition, we have available borrowing capacity under the revolving portion of our existing senior credit facilities of $115.2 million as of December 31, 2008, although the revolving credit fac ility matures on August 9, 2009. If we or any of our subsidiaries incur additional indebtedness, the risks outlined above could worsen. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures and research and product development efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. Our ability to generate cash, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Our historical financial results have been, and we anticipate that our future financial results will be, subject to fluctuations. Our business may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from our operations or future borrowings may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. An inability to pay our debts would require us to pursue one or more alternative strategies, such as selling assets, refinancing or restructuring our indebtedness or selling equity capital. However, alternative strategies may not be feasible at the time or may not prove adequate, which could cause us to default on our obligations and would impair our liquidity. Also, some alternative strategies would require the prior consent of our secured lenders, which we may not be able to obtain. See also "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Oper ations." Restrictive Covenants—The terms of our indebtedness contain a number of restrictive covenants, the breach of which could result in acceleration of payment of our senior credit facilities and our 87/8% senior subordinated notes. The terms of our indebtedness contain a number of restrictive covenants, the breach of which could result in acceleration of our obligations to repay amounts owed under our senior credit facilities and our 87/8% senior subordinated notes. An acceleration of our repayment obligations under our senior credit facilities could result in a payment or distribution of substantially all of our assets to our secured lenders, which would materially impair our ability to operate our business as a going concern. The indenture and our senior credit facilities, among other things, restrict and/or limit our and certain of our subsidiaries' ability to: < borrow money and issue preferred stock; < guarantee indebtedness of others; < pay dividends on our stock; < purchase our stock or the stock of our "restricted subsidiaries", a defined term; < make certain types of investments; < use assets as security in other transactions; < sell certain assets or merge with or into other companies; < enter into sale and leaseback transactions; < enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates; < enter into new businesses; and < make certain payments in respect of subordinated indebtedness. The senior credit facilities also restrict our ability to prepay principal in respect of the 87/8% senior subordinated notes and restrict our ability to engage in any business or operations other than those that are incidental to our ownership of the capital stock of Blount, Inc., our wholly-owned operating subsidiary. In addition, the senior credit facilities require us to maintain certain financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests, which may require that we take actions to reduce debt or to act in a manner contrary to our business objectives. Our ability to meet BLOUNT INTERNATIONAL, INC.6 those financial ratios and tests could be affected by events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance that we will meet those ratios and tests. A breach of any of these covenants could, if uncured, constitute an event of default or a default under the indenture for the notes or the senior credit facilities. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the senior credit facilities, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the senior credit facilities, together with any accrued interest and commitment fees, to be immediately due and payable. If we and certain of our subsidiaries were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under the senior credit facilities could enforce the guarantees from Blount, Inc. and the guarantors and proceed against the collateral securing the senior credit facilities. The assets of Blount, Inc. and the applicable guarantors could be insufficient to repay in full th at indebtedness and our other indebtedness. Assets Pledged as Security on Credit Facilities—The majority of our assets and the capital stock of Blount, Inc. are pledged to secure obligations under our senior credit facilities. The Company and all of its domestic subsidiaries other than Blount, Inc. guarantee Blount, Inc.'s obligations under the senior credit facilities. The obligations under the senior credit facilities are collateralized by a first priority security interest in substantially all of the assets of Blount, Inc. and its domestic subsidiaries, as well as a pledge of all of Blount, Inc.'s capital stock held by Blount International, Inc. and all of the stock of domestic subsidiaries held by Blount, Inc. Blount, Inc. has also pledged 65% of the stock of its non-domestic subsidiaries as additional collateral. Further, our senior credit facilities provide that payments on the 87/8% notes and the guarantees thereof will be blocked in the event of a default under the senior credit facilities. In addition, upon any distribution to Blount, Inc.'s creditors or the creditors of the guarantors in a bankruptcy, liquidation, receivership, administration for the benefit of creditors or reorganization or similar proceeding relating to the property that constitutes security for the senior credit facilities, the lenders under the senior credit facilities will be entitled to be paid in full in cash before any payment may be made with respect to such notes or the guarantees. While Blount International, Inc. and all of Blount, Inc.'s existing domestic subsidiaries guarantee the 87/8% senior subordinated notes, none of Blount, Inc.'s existing foreign subsidiaries guarantee these notes. We will not permit any of our non-guarantor restricted subsidiaries to guarantee or pledge any assets to secure the payment of our senior credit facilities, unless that subsidiary is a guarantor of those notes or that subsidiary becomes a guarantor. Any existing or future non-guarantor subsidiary of Blount International, Inc. that we properly designate as an unrestricted subsidiary or a receivables subsidiary will n ot guarantee those notes. Competition—Competition may result in decreased sales, operating income and cash flow. The markets in which we operate are competitive. We believe that design features, product quality, customer service and price are the principal factors considered by our customers. Some of our competitors may have greater financial resources, lower costs, superior technology or more favorable operating conditions than we do. For example, our competitors are expanding capacity or contracting with suppliers located in China and other low cost manufacturing locations as a means to lower costs. Although we have also established a manufacturing facility in China, international competition from emerging economies may nevertheless be formidable and negatively affect our business. We may not be able to compete successfully with our existing or any new competitors, and the competitive pressures we face may result in decreased sales, operating income and cash flows. Competitors could also obtain knowledge of our proprietary manufacturing techniques and processes and reduce our competitive advantage by copying such techniques and processes. Key Customers—Loss of one or more key customers would substantially decrease our sales. In 2008, $84.4 million (14.1%) of our sales were to one customer (Husqvarna AB) and our top five customers accounted for $138.2 million (23.2%) of our sales. Aside from our top customer, no other customer individually accounted for more than 3.2% of our sales. While we expect these business relationships to continue, the loss of any of these customers, or a substantial portion of their business, would most likely significantly decrease our sales, operating income and cash flows. Key Suppliers and Raw Materials Costs—The loss of a few key suppliers or increases in raw materials costs could substantially decrease our sales or increase our costs. We purchase important materials and parts from a limited number of suppliers that meet our quality criteria. We generally do not operate under long-term written supply contracts with our suppliers. Although alternative sources of supply are available, the sudden elimination of certain suppliers could result in manufacturing delays, an increase in costs, a reduction in product quality and a possible loss of sales in the near term. In 2008, we purchased approximately $14.3 million of raw materials from our largest supplier. Some of these raw materials, in particular cold-rolled strip steel, are subject to price volatility over periods of time. We have not hedged against the price volatility of any raw materials. It has been our experience that raw material price increases are sometimes difficult to recover from our customers in the short term through increased pricing. For example, we estimate that a 10% change in the price of steel would have affected 2008 income from continuing operations before taxes by $8.2 million. BLOUNT INTERNATIONAL, INC.7 Key Employees—The loss of key employees could adversely affect our manufacturing efficiency. Many of our manufacturing processes require a high level of expertise. For example, we build our own complex dies for use in cutting and shaping steel into components for our products. The design and manufacture of such dies are highly dependent on the expertise of key employees. We have also developed numerous proprietary manufacturing techniques that rely on the expertise of key employees. Our manufacturing efficiency and cost could be adversely affected if we are unable to retain these key employees or continue to train them or their replacements. Foreign Sales and Operations—We have substantial foreign sales and operations, which could be adversely affected as a result of changes in local economic or political conditions, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, unexpected changes in regulatory environments or potentially adverse tax consequences. In 2008, approximately 66% of our sales by country of destination occurred outside of the U.S. International sales are subject to inherent risks, including changes in local economic or political conditions, the imposition of currency exchange restrictions, unexpected changes in regulatory environments and potentially adverse tax consequences. Under some circumstances, these factors could result in significant declines in international sales. Some of our sales and expenses are denominated in local currencies that can be affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates in relation to the U.S. Dollar. Historically, our principal exposures have been related to local currency manufacturing costs and expenses in Canada and Brazil, and local currency sales and expenses in Europe. From time to time, we manage some of our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations through derivative products. However, such derivative products mer ely reduce the short-term volatility of currency fluctuations, and do not eliminate their effects over the long-term. Any change in the exchange rates of currencies in jurisdictions into which we sell products or incur expenses could result in a significant decrease in reported sales and operating income. For example, we estimate that a 10% stronger Canadian Dollar in relation to the U.S. Dollar would have reduced our operating income by $5.8 million and a 10% stronger Brazilian Real in relation to the U.S. Dollar would have reduced our operating income by $2.6 million in 2008. We estimate that a 10% weaker Euro in relation to the U.S. Dollar would have reduced our sales by $6.1 million and operating income by $2.2 million in 2008. We estimate that the year-over-year movement of foreign exchange rates reduced our operating income by $5.2 million in 2008. Also, approximately 61% of our foreign sales are denominated in U.S. Dollars. We may see a decline in revenues during periods of a strengthening U.S. Dollar, which can make our prices less competitive in international markets. Furthermore, if the U.S. Dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, as it did during the latter half of 2008, it becomes more costly for foreign customers to pay their U.S. Dollar balances owed. They may have difficulty in repaying these amounts, and in turn, our bad debts expense may increase. In addition, we own substantial manufacturing facilities outside the U.S. As of December 31, 2008, 639,730 square feet, or 44% of the total square feet of our owned facilities, were located outside of the U.S. and 32% of our leased square footage is located outside the U.S. This foreign-based property, plant and equipment is subject to inherent risks for the reasons cited above. Loss of these facilities or restrictions on our ability to use them would have an adverse effect on our manufacturing capabilities, and would result in reduced sales, operating income and cash flows. Weather—Sales of many of our products are affected by weather patterns and the occurrence of natural disasters. Sales of many of our products, such as yard care parts and accessories, including lawnmower blades, are influenced by weather patterns that are clearly outside our control. For example, drought conditions tend to reduce the demand for yard care products. Natural disasters such as hurricanes, typhoons, and ice and wind storms that knock down trees can stimulate demand for our chainsaw-related products. Conversely, a relative lack of severe weather and natural disasters can result in reduced demand for these same products. General Economic Factors—We are subject to general economic factors that are largely out of our control, any of which could, among other things, result in a decrease in sales and net income and an increase in our interest or other expenses. Our business is subject to a number of general economic factors, many of which are largely out of our control, that may, among other effects, result in a decrease in sales and net income and an increase in our interest or other expenses. These include recessionary economic cycles and downturns in customers' business cycles, as well as downturns in the principal regional economies where our operations are located. Economic conditions may adversely affect our customers' business levels and the amount of products that they need. Furthermore, customers encountering adverse economic conditions may have difficulty in paying for our products and actual bad debts may exceed our allowances. Current world-wide economic conditions have contributed to a slowdown in orders for our products and may adversely affect our business results. Current world-wide economic conditions may also adversely affect our suppliers and they may not be able to provide us with the goods and services we need on a timely basis, which could adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products. Our senior credit facility borrowings are at variable interest rates. Increases in interest rates could increase our BLOUNT INTERNATIONAL, INC.8 interest expense payable under the senior credit facilities to levels in excess of what we currently expect. We estimate a one hundred basis point higher average level of interest rates on our variable rate debt would have increased our interest expense in 2008 by $1.5 million. In addition, the global reduction in market values of equity and debt securities has adversely affected the funding status of our defined benefit post-retirement plans. The expense and future funding requirements for these plans may increase in the near term as a result of the reduced values of the plan assets. Finally, terrorist activities, anti-terrorist efforts, war or other armed conflicts involving the U.S. or its interests abroad may result in a downturn in the U.S. and global economies and exacerbate the risks to our business described in this paragraph. Litigation—We may have litigation liabilities that could result in significant costs to us. Our historical and current business operations, including discontinued operations, have resulted in a number of litigation matters, including litigation involving personal injury or death, as a result of alleged design or manufacturing defects of our products. Certain of these liabilities relating to certain of our discontinued operations were retained by us under terms of the relevant divestiture agreements. Some of these product liability suits seek significant or unspecified damages for serious personal injuries for which there are retentions or deductible amounts under our insurance policies. In the future, we may face additional lawsuits, and it is difficult to predict the amount and type of litigation that we may face. Litigation, insurance and other related costs could result in future liabilities that are significant and that could significantly reduce our cash flows and cash balances. See "Business—Legal Proceeding s." Environmental Matters—We face potential exposure to environmental liabilities and costs. We are subject to various U.S. and foreign environmental laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and the cleanup of contaminated sites. Violations of, or liabilities incurred under, these laws and regulations could result in an assessment of significant costs to us, including civil or criminal penalties, claims by third parties for personal injury or property damage, requirements to investigate and remediate contamination and the imposition of natural resource damages. Furthermore, under certain environmental laws, current and former owners and operators of contaminated property or parties who sent waste to the contaminated site can be held liable for cleanup, regardless of fault or the lawfulness of the disposal activity at the time it was performed. This potential exposure t o environmental liabilities and costs can apply to both our current and former operating facilities, including those related to our discontinued operations. Future events, such as the discovery of additional contamination or other information concerning past releases of hazardous substances at ours or others' sites, changes in existing environmental laws or their interpretation and more rigorous enforcement by regulatory authorities may require additional expenditures by us to modify operations, install pollution control equipment, clean contaminated sites or curtail our operations. These expenditures could significantly reduce our net income and cash flows. See "Business—Environmental Matters" and "Business—Legal Proceedings." Dividends—We may not pay dividends on our common stock in the future. We have not paid dividends on our common stock since 1999. We intend to retain future earnings for debt service and for funding growth; therefore, we do not expect to pay any dividends in the near term. In addition, our senior credit facilities and the terms of our 87/8% senior subordinated notes restrict our ability to pay dividends. See "Item 5, Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities." Common Stock Sales—Future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower our stock price. Ownership and control of our common stock is concentrated in a relatively small number of institutional investors. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 65% of our outstanding common stock was owned or controlled by our five largest stockholders. Furthermore, our former majority owner, Lehman Brothers Merchant Banking Partners II, L.P. and its affiliates ("Lehman Brothers"), which controls or manages equity investment funds that currently own 8.9 million shares of our common stock, is currently operating under Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. Lehman Brothers may sell or lose control of the funds that hold these shares, which may result in the sale of a substantial number of the shares those funds own or control in a secondary stock offering or distribution of some or all of the shares to investors in one or more of the investment funds they manage. We may sell additional shares of common stock in subsequent public offerings, o r other stockholders with significant holdings of our common stock may also sell large amounts of shares they own in a secondary or open market stock offering. We may also issue additional shares of common stock to finance future transactions. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition or shares sold by existing stockholders), or the perception that such sales BLOUNT INTERNATIONAL, INC.9 could occur, may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock. Common Stock Price —The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and stockholders could lose all or part of their investment. Volatility in the market price of our common stock may prevent stockholders from being able to sell their shares at or above the price paid for the shares. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly for various reasons that include: < our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industries; < the public's reaction to events and results contained in our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC; < changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts who track our common stock or the stock of other comparable companies; < changes in general conditions in the U.S. and global economies, financial markets or forestry industry, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to such events; < sales of common stock by our largest stockholders, directors and executive officers; and < the other factors described in these "Risk Factors." In addition, in recent years, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industries. The changes in prices frequently appear to occur without regard to the operating performance of these companies. For example, over the two preceding calendar years, our highest closing stock price has exceeded our lowest closing stock price by 104% in 2008 and by 33% in 2007. The price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our company, and these fluctuations could materially reduce our stock price. 