ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our securities is speculative in nature, involves a high degree of risk, and should not be made by an investor who cannot bear the economic risk of its investment for an indefinite period of time and who cannot afford the loss of its entire investment. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and the other information contained elsewhere in this Annual Report before making an investment in our securities. Risks Related to Our Business We currently have no product revenues and will need to raise substantial additional funds in the future. If we are unable to obtain the funds necessary to continue our operations, we will be required to delay, scale back or eliminate one or more of our remaining drug development programs and may not continue as a going concern. We have generated no product revenues to date and will not until, and if, we receive approval from the FDA and other regulatory authorities for any of our four product candidates. We have already spent substantial funds developing our potential products and business, however, and we expect to continue to have negative cash flow from our operations for at least the next several years. As of December 31, 2009, we had $17,996 of cash and cash equivalents. We received additional funding of approximately $2.2 million from a financing transaction in March 2010. We expect that such financing shall be sufficient to fund our operations through the end of 2010. We will still have to raise substantial additional funds to complete the development of our product candidates and to bring them to market. Beyond the capital requirements mentioned above, our future capital requirements will depend on numerous factors, including: · the results of any clinical trials; · the scope and results of our research and development programs; · the time required to obtain regulatory approvals; · our ability to establish and maintain marketing alliances and collaborative agreements; and · the cost of our internal marketing activities. Our history of operating losses and lack of product revenues may make it difficult to raise capital on acceptable terms or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we will be required to delay, scale back or eliminate one or more of our drug development programs or obtain funds through arrangements with collaborative partners or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies or products that we would not otherwise relinquish. Our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm has concluded that our net losses, negative cash flow, accumulated deficit and negative working capital as of December 31, 2009, raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The inclusion of a going concern explanatory paragraph in the report of our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm will make it more difficult for us to secure additional financing or enter into strategic relationships with distributors on terms acceptable to us, if at all, and likely will materially and adversely affect the terms of any financing that we may obtain. We have incurred substantial losses and negative cash flow from operations. We have a history of losses and expect to incur substantial losses and negative operating cash flow for the foreseeable future, and we may never achieve or maintain profitability. We have incurred losses in every period since our inception on August 6, 2001. For the year ended December 31, 2009 and for the period from August 6, 2001 (inception) through December 31, 2009, we incurred net losses applicable to common shares of $2,793,285, and $61,933,435 respectively. Even if we succeed in developing and commercializing one or more of our product candidates, we expect to incur substantial losses for the foreseeable future and may never become profitable. We also expect to continue to incur significant operating and capital expenditures and anticipate that our expenses will increase substantially in the foreseeable future as we: 17 · continue to undertake nonclinical development and clinical trials for our product candidates; · seek regulatory approvals for our product candidates; · implement additional internal systems and infrastructure; · lease additional or alternative office facilities; and · hire additional personnel. We also expect to experience negative cash flow for the foreseeable future as we fund our operating losses and capital expenditures. As a result, we will need to generate significant revenues in order to achieve and maintain profitability. We may not be able to generate these revenues or achieve profitability in the future. Our failure to achieve or maintain profitability could negatively impact the value of our Common Stock. As a result of our continued losses, our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm has included an explanatory paragraph in our financial statements for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, expressing doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. The inclusion of a going concern explanatory paragraph in the report of our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm will make it more difficult for us to secure additional financing or enter into strategic relationships with distributors on terms acceptable to us, if at all, and likely will materially and adversely affect the terms of any financing that we may obtain. If we fail to generate revenues, or if operating expenses exceed our expectations or cannot be adjusted accordingly, we may not achieve profitability and the value of your investment could decline significantly. We have a limited operating history upon which to base an investment decision. We are a development-stage company and have not yet demonstrated any ability to perform the functions necessary for the successful commercialization of any product candidates. The successful commercialization of our product candidates will require us to perform a variety of functions, including: · continuing to undertake nonclinical development and clinical trials; · participating in regulatory approval processes; · formulating and manufacturing products; and · conducting sales and marketing activities. Since inception as Manhattan Research Development, Inc., our operations have been limited to organizing and staffing, and acquiring, developing and securing our proprietary technology and undertaking nonclinical and clinical trials of principal product candidates. These operations provide a limited basis for you to assess our ability to commercialize our product candidates and the advisability of investing in our securities. We have not engaged financial advisors to evaluate the fairness of the consideration being paid to the stockholders and noteholders of Ariston in connection with the Ariston Merger. We can provide no assurance that the fair value of the securities being paid to the stockholders and noteholders of Ariston in the Ariston Merger will not exceed the fair value of the assets acquired. Ariston has approximately $16.5 million indebtedness prior to the Ariston Merger. 18 In connection with the Ariston Merger, the merger subsidiary of the combined company will assume Ariston's indebtedness of approximately $16.5 million. Such indebtedness may negatively impact our ability to raise sufficient additional capital to fund our operations. Ariston may have liabilities that were unknown at the time of the consummation of the Ariston Merger that became liabilities of the Company’s upon consummation of the Ariston Merger. There may be liabilities of Ariston and/or its affiliates that were unknown at the time of the consummation of the Ariston Merger. As a result of the Ariston Merger, any such unknown liabilities may become liabilities of the combined company. In the event any such liabilities become known following the Ariston Merger, they may lead to claims against a subsidiary of the combined company, including but not limited to lawsuits, administrative proceedings, and other claims. Any such liabilities may subject the combined company to increased expenses for attorneys’ fees, fines, litigation expenses, and expenses associated with any subsequent settlements or judgments. There can be no assurances that such unknown liabilities do not exist. To the extent that such liabilities become known following the Ariston Merger, any such liability-related expenses may materially impact the combined company’s financial condition and results of operations. We depend greatly on the intellectual capabilities and experience of our key executives, and the loss of any of them could affect our ability to develop our remaining products. We had only two full-time and two part-time employees as of March 30, 2010. The loss of either Michael G. McGuinness, our Chief Operating and Financial Officer, or Malcolm Morville, Chief Executive Officer of Ariston, could harm us. Mr. McGuinness’ employment agreement with the Company expired in July 2009. Mr. Morville’s employment agreement with Ariston expired upon consummation of the Ariston Merger. Messrs. McGuinness and Morville have been working for the Company and Ariston, respectively, on the same terms and conditions that were set forth in the employment agreements that expired. We cannot predict our success in hiring or retaining the personnel we require for continued operations. We may not obtain the necessary U.S. or worldwide regulatory approvals to commercialize our product candidates. We will need FDA approval to commercialize our product candidates in the U.S. and approvals from the FDA equivalent regulatory authorities in foreign jurisdictions to commercialize our product candidates in those jurisdictions. In order to obtain FDA approval of any of our product candidates, we must first submit to the FDA an IND, which will set forth our plans for clinical testing of our product candidates. In September 2007, the FDA accepted our IND for Topical PTH(1-34). Our remaining two products, Hedrin and the Topical GEL for psoriasis are currently considered pre-clinical. We are unable to estimate the size and timing of the clinical and non clinical trials required to bring our two product candidates to market and, accordingly, cannot estimate the time when development of these product candidates will be completed. When the clinical testing for our product candidates is complete, we will submit to the FDA a NDA demonstrating that the product candidate is safe for humans and effective for its intended use. This demonstration requires significant research and animal tests, which are referred to as nonclinical studies, as well as human tests, which are referred to as clinical trials. Satisfaction of the FDA’s regulatory requirements typically takes many years, depends upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidate and requires substantial resources for research, development and testing. We cannot predict whether our research and clinical approaches will result in drugs that the FDA considers safe for humans and effective for indicated uses. The FDA has substantial discretion in the drug approval process and may require us to conduct additional nonclinical and clinical testing or to perform post-marketing studies. The approval process may also be delayed by changes in government regulation, future legislation or administrative action or changes in FDA policy that occur prior to or during our regulatory review. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals may: 19 · delay commercialization of, and our ability to derive product revenues from, our product candidates; · impose costly procedures on us; and · diminish any competitive advantages that we may otherwise enjoy. Even if we comply with all FDA requests, the FDA may ultimately reject any or all of our future NDAs. We cannot be sure that we will ever obtain regulatory clearance for any of our product candidates. Failure to obtain FDA approval of any of our product candidates will severely undermine our business by reducing our number of salable products and, therefore, corresponding product revenues. In foreign jurisdictions, we must receive approval from the appropriate regulatory authorities before we can commercialize our drugs. Foreign regulatory approval processes generally include all of the risks associated with the FDA approval procedures described above. We have not yet made any determination as to which foreign jurisdictions we may seek approval and have not undertaken any steps to obtain approvals in any foreign jurisdiction. Clinical trials are very expensive, time consuming and difficult to design and implement. Human clinical trials are very expensive and difficult to design and implement, in part because they are subject to rigorous regulatory requirements. The clinical trial process is also time consuming. We estimate that clinical trials of our product candidates will take at least several years to complete. Furthermore, failure can occur at any stage of the trials, and we could encounter problems that cause us to abandon or repeat clinical trials. The commencement and completion of clinical trials may be delayed by several factors, including: · unforeseen safety issues; · determination of dosing issues; · lack of effectiveness during clinical trials; · slower than expected rates of patient recruitment; · inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment; and · inability or unwillingness of medical investigators to follow our clinical protocols. In addition, we or the FDA may suspend our clinical trials at any time if it appears that we are exposing participants to unacceptable health risks or if the FDA finds deficiencies in our IND submissions or the conduct of these trials. The results of our clinical trials may not support our product candidate claims. Even if our clinical trials are completed as planned, we cannot be certain that their results will support our product candidate claims. Success in nonclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and we cannot be sure that the results of later clinical trials will replicate the results of prior clinical trials and nonclinical testing. The clinical trial process may fail to demonstrate that our product candidates are safe for humans or effective for indicated uses. This failure would cause us to abandon a product candidate and may delay development of other product candidates. Any delay in, or termination of, our clinical trials will delay the filing of our NDAs with the FDA and, ultimately, our ability to commercialize our product candidates and generate product revenues. In addition, we anticipate that our clinical trials will involve only a small patient population. Accordingly, the results of such trials may not be indicative of future results over a larger patient population. 20 Physicians and patients may not accept and use our products. Even if the FDA approves our product candidates, physicians and patients may not accept and use them. Acceptance and use of our product will depend upon a number of factors including: · perceptions by members of the health care community, including physicians, about the safety and effectiveness of our drugs; · cost-effectiveness of our product relative to competing products; · availability of reimbursement for our products from government or other healthcare payers; and · effectiveness of marketing and distribution efforts by us and our licensees and distributors, if any. Because we expect sales of our current product candidates, if approved, to generate substantially all of our product revenues for the foreseeable future, the failure of any of these drugs to find market acceptance would harm our business and could require us to seek additional financing. Our product-development program depends upon third-party researchers who are outside our control. We currently are collaborating with several third-party researchers, for the development of our product candidates. Accordingly, the successful development of our product candidates will depend on the performance of these third parties. These collaborators will not be our employees, however, and we cannot control the amount or timing of resources that they will devote to our programs. Our collaborators may not assign as great a priority to our programs or pursue them as diligently as we would if we were undertaking such programs ourselves. If outside collaborators fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our drug-development programs, or if their performance is substandard, the approval of our FDA applications, if any, and our introduction of new drugs, if any, will be delayed. These collaborators may also have relationships with other commercial entities, some of whom may compete with us. If our collaborators assist our competitors at our expense, our competitive position would be harmed. We rely exclusively on third parties to formulate and manufacture our product candidates. We have no experience in drug formulation or manufacturing and do not intend to establish our own manufacturing facilities. We lack the resources and expertise to formulate or manufacture our own product candidates. We intend to contract with one or more manufacturers to manufacture, supply, store and distribute drug supplies for our clinical trials. If any of our product candidates receive FDA approval, we will rely on one or more third-party contractors to manufacture our drugs. Our anticipated future reliance on a limited number of third-party manufacturers, exposes us to the following risks: · We may be unable to identify manufacturers on acceptable terms or at all because the number of potential manufacturers is limited and the FDA must approve any replacement contractor. This approval would require new testing and compliance inspections. In addition, a new manufacturer would have to be educated in, or develop substantially equivalent processes for, production of our products after receipt of FDA approval, if any. · Our third-party manufacturers might be unable to formulate and manufacture our drugs in the volume and of the quality required to meet our clinical needs and commercial needs, if any. · Our future contract manufacturers may not perform as agreed or may not remain in the contract manufacturing business for the time required to supply our clinical trials or to successfully produce, store and distribute our products. 21 · Drug manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA, the Drug Enforcement Agency, and corresponding state agencies to ensure strict compliance with good manufacturing practice and other government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. We do not have control over third-party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. · If any third-party manufacturer makes improvements in the manufacturing process for our products, we may not own, or may have to share, the intellectual property rights to the innovation. We have no experience selling, marketing or distributing products and no internal capability to do so. We currently have no sales, marketing or distribution capabilities. We do not anticipate having the resources in the foreseeable future to allocate to the sales and marketing of our proposed products. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to enter into and maintain such collaborative relationships, the collaborator’s strategic interest in the products under development and such collaborator’s ability to successfully market and sell any such products. We intend to pursue collaborative arrangements regarding the sales and marketing of our products, however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to establish or maintain such collaborative arrangements, or if able to do so, that they will have effective sales forces. To the extent that we decide not to, or are unable to, enter into collaborative arrangements with respect to the sales and marketing of our proposed products, significant capital expenditures, management resources and time will be required to establish and develop an in-house marketing and sales force with technical expertise. There can also be no assurance that we will be able to establish or maintain relationships with third party collaborators or develop in-house sales and distribution capabilities. To the extent that we depend on third parties for marketing and distribution, any revenues we receive will depend upon the efforts of such third parties, and there can be no assurance that such efforts will be successful. In addition, there can also be no assurance that we will be able to market and sell our product in the United States or overseas. If we cannot compete successfully for market share against other drug companies, we may not achieve sufficient product revenues and our business will suffer. The market for our product candidates is characterized by intense competition and rapid technological advances. If our product candidates receive FDA approval, they will compete with a number of existing and future drugs and therapies developed, manufactured and marketed by others. Existing or future competing products may provide greater therapeutic convenience or clinical or other benefits for a specific indication than our products, or may offer comparable performance at a lower cost. If our products fail to capture and maintain market share, we may not achieve sufficient product revenues and our business will suffer. We will compete against fully integrated pharmaceutical companies and smaller companies that are collaborating with larger pharmaceutical companies, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations. Many of these competitors have product candidates that will compete with ours already approved or in development. In addition, many of these competitors, either alone or together with their collaborative partners, operate larger research and development programs and have substantially greater financial resources than we do, as well as significantly greater experience in: · developing drugs; · undertaking nonclinical testing and human clinical trials; · obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of drugs; · formulating and manufacturing drugs; and 22 · launching, marketing and selling drugs. Developments by competitors may render our products or technologies obsolete or non-competitive. Many of the organizations competing with us have substantially greater capital resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities, longer drug development history in obtaining regulatory approvals and greater manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do. These organizations also compete with us to attract qualified personnel, parties for acquisitions, joint ventures or other collaborations. If we fail to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights or secure rights to patents of others, the value of our intellectual property rights would diminish. Our success, competitive position and future revenues will depend in part on our ability and the abilities of our licensors to obtain and maintain patent protection for our products, methods, processes and other technologies, to preserve our trade secrets, to prevent third parties from infringing on our proprietary rights and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. See “Business – Intellectual Property and License Agreements.”. However, with regard to the patents covered by our license agreements and any future patents issued to which we will have rights, we cannot predict: · the degree and range of protection any patents will afford us against competitors including whether third parties will find ways to invalidate or otherwise circumvent our patents; · if and when patents will issue; · whether or not others will obtain patents claiming aspects similar to those covered by our patents and patent applications; or · whether we will need to initiate litigation or administrative proceedings which may be costly whether we win or lose. Our success also depends upon the skills, knowledge and experience of our scientific and technical personnel, our consultants and advisors as well as our licensors and contractors. To help protect our proprietary know-how and our inventions for which patents may be unobtainable or difficult to obtain, we rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements. To this end, we require all of our employees, consultants, advisors and contractors to enter into agreements which prohibit the disclosure of confidential information and, where applicable, require disclosure and assignment to us of the ideas, developments, discoveries and inventions important to our business. These agreements may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure or the lawful development by others of such information. If any of our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information is disclosed, the value of our trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary rights would be significantly impaired and our business and competitive position would suffer. 23 If we infringe the rights of third parties we could be prevented from selling products, forced to pay damages, and defend against litigation, which could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan.. Our business is substantially dependent on the intellectual property on which our product candidates are based. To date, we have not received any threats or claims that we may be infringing on another’s patents or other intellectual property rights. If our products, methods, processes and other technologies infringe the proprietary rights of other parties, we could incur substantial costs and we may have to: · obtain licenses, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; · redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement; · stop using the subject matter claimed in the patents held by others; · pay damages; or · defend litigation or administrative proceedings which may be costly whether we win or lose, and which could result in a substantial diversion of our valuable management resources. Our ability to generate product revenues will be diminished if our drugs sell for inadequate prices or patients are unable to obtain adequate levels of reimbursement. Our ability to commercialize our drugs, alone or with collaborators, will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement will be available from: · government and health administration authorities; · private health maintenance organizations and health insurers; and · other healthcare payers. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products. Healthcare payers, including Medicare, are challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Government and other healthcare payers increasingly attempt to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for drugs. Even if our product candidates are approved by the FDA, insurance coverage may not be available, and reimbursement levels may be inadequate, to cover our drugs. If government and other healthcare payers do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for any of our products, once approved, market acceptance of our products could be reduced. Health care reform and restrictions on reimbursement may limit our returns on potential products. Because our strategy ultimately depends on the commercial success of our products, we assume, among other things, that end users of our products will be able to pay for them. In the United States and other countries, in most cases, the volume of sales of products like those we are developing depends on the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors, including national health care agencies, private health insurance plans and health maintenance organizations. Third-party payors increasingly challenge the prices charged for medical products and services. Accordingly, if we succeed in bringing products to market, and reimbursement is not available or is insufficient, we could be prevented from successfully commercializing our potential products. The health care industry in the United States and in Europe is undergoing fundamental changes as a result of political, economic and regulatory influences. Reforms proposed from time to time include mandated basic health care benefits, controls on health care spending, the establishment of governmental controls over the cost of therapies, creation of large medical services and products purchasing groups and fundamental changes to the health care delivery system. We anticipate ongoing review and assessment of health care delivery systems and methods of payment in the United States and other countries. We cannot predict whether any particular reform initiatives will result or, if adopted, what their impact on us will be. However, we expect that adoption of any reform proposed will impair our ability to market products at acceptable prices. 24 Changes in laws affecting the health care industry could adversely affect our business. In the U.S., there have been numerous proposals considered at the federal and state levels for comprehensive reforms of health care and its cost, and it is likely that federal and state legislatures and health agencies will continue to focus on health care reform in the future. Congress has considered legislation to reform the U.S. health care system by expanding health insurance coverage, reducing health care costs and making other changes. While health care reform may increase the number of patients who have insurance coverage for our products, it may also include cost containment measures that adversely affect reimbursement for our products. Congress has also considered legislation to change the Medicare reimbursement system for outpatient drugs, increase the amount of rebates that manufacturers pay for coverage of their drugs by Medicaid programs and facilitate the importation of lower-cost prescription drugs that are marketed outside the U.S. Some states are also considering legislation that would control the prices of drugs, and state Medicaid programs are increasingly requesting manufacturers to pay supplemental rebates and requiring prior authorization by the state program for use of any drug for which supplemental rebates are not being paid. Managed care organizations continue to seek price discounts and, in some cases, to impose restrictions on the coverage of particular drugs. Government efforts to reduce Medicaid expenses may lead to increased use of managed care organizations by Medicaid programs. This may result in managed care organizations influencing prescription decisions for a larger segment of the population and a corresponding constraint on prices and reimbursement for our products. We operate in a highly regulated industry. As a result, governmental actions may adversely affect our business, operations or financial condition, including: · new laws, regulations or judicial decisions, or new interpretations of existing laws, regulations or decisions, related to health care availability, method of delivery and payment for health care products and services; · changes in the FDA and foreign regulatory approval processes that may delay or prevent the approval of new products and result in lost market opportunity; · changes in FDA and foreign regulations that may require additional safety monitoring, labeling changes, restrictions on product distribution or use, or other measures after the introduction of our products to market, which could increase our costs of doing business, adversely affect the future permitted uses of approved products, or otherwise adversely affect the market for our products; · new laws, regulations and judicial decisions affecting pricing or marketing practices; and · changes in the tax laws relating to our operations. The enactment in the U.S. of health care reform, possible legislation which could ease the entry of competing follow-on biologics in the marketplace, new legislation or implementation of existing statutory provisions on importation of lower-cost competing drugs from other jurisdictions, and legislation on comparative effectiveness research are examples of previously enacted and possible future changes in laws that could adversely affect our business. In addition, the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 included new authorization for the FDA to require post-market safety monitoring, along with an expanded clinical trials registry and clinical trials results database, and expanded authority for the FDA to impose civil monetary penalties on companies that fail to meet certain commitments. We may not successfully manage our growth. Our success will depend upon the expansion of our operations and the effective management of our growth, which will place a significant strain on our management and on our administrative, operational and financial resources. To manage this growth, we must expand our facilities, augment our operational, financial and management systems and hire and train additional qualified personnel. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business may suffer. 25 If we are unable to hire additional qualified personnel, our ability to grow our business may be harmed. We will need to hire additional qualified personnel with expertise in nonclinical testing, clinical research and testing, government regulation, formulation and manufacturing and sales and marketing. We compete for qualified individuals with numerous biopharmaceutical companies, universities and other research institutions. Competition for such individuals is intense, and we cannot be certain that our search for such personnel will be successful. Attracting and retaining qualified personnel will be critical to our success. If we are not successful in integrating Ariston's product development programs, we may not be able to operate efficiently after the Ariston Merger, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Achieving the benefits of the Ariston Merger will depend in part on the successful integration of Ariston's drug development programs and personnel in a timely and efficient manner. The integration process requires coordination of different development, regulatory, and manufacturing teams, and involves the integration of systems, applications, policies, procedures, business processes and operations. If we cannot successfully integrate Ariston's programs, we may not realize the expected benefits of the Ariston Merger. We may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our products in response to product liability lawsuits. The testing and marketing of medical products entail an inherent risk of product liability. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of our products. We currently carry clinical trial insurance in an amount up to $5,000,000, which may be inadequate to protect against potential product liability claims or may inhibit the commercialization of pharmaceutical products we develop, alone or with corporate collaborators. Although we intend to maintain clinical trial insurance during any clinical trials, this may be inadequate to protect us against any potential claims. Even if our agreements with any future corporate collaborators entitle us to indemnification against losses, such indemnification may not be available or adequate should any claim arise. We are controlled by current officers, directors and principal stockholders. Our directors, executive officers and principal stockholders beneficially own approximately 20 percent of our outstanding voting stock and, including shares underlying outstanding options and warrants. In addition, Nordic Biotech Venture Fund has the right to acquire up to 85,714,285 shares of our common stock which would result in Nordic owning approximately 43% of our common stock as of March 23, 2010 (although, as described in Note 18 to our financial statements at and for the Years ended December 231, 2009 and 2008, an anti-dilution calculation with respect to this amount has been disputed by Nordic). Through its stock ownership, its right to acquire additional shares, its substantial control over the management of the Hedrin JV (which includes the ability to terminate our management contract with the Hedrin JV), Nordic has the ability to exert substantial influence over the election of our Board of Directors, the outcome of issues submitted to our stockholders, the development of Hedrin and our ability, as a company, to benefit from the successful development of Hedrin. Even without the exercise of its rights to acquire additional shares of our common stock, our directors, officers and principal stockholders, taken as a whole, have the ability to exert substantial influence over the election of our Board of Directors and the outcome of issues submitted to our stockholders. 26 Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price is, and we expect it to remain, volatile, which could limit investors’ ability to sell stock at a profit. During the last two fiscal years, our stock price has traded at a low of $0.007 in the fourth quarter of 2008 to a high of $0.23 in the first quarter of 2008. The volatile price of our stock makes it difficult for investors to predict the value of their investment, to sell shares at a profit at any given time, or to plan purchases and sales in advance. A variety of factors may affect the market price of our common stock. These include, but are not limited to: · The global economic crisis, which affected stock prices of many companies, and particularly many small pharmaceutical companies like ours; · publicity regarding actual or potential clinical results relating to products under development by our competitors or us; · delay or failure in initiating, completing or analyzing nonclinical or clinical trials or the unsatisfactory design or results of these trials; · achievement or rejection of regulatory approvals by our competitors or us; · announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by our competitors or us; · developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents; · developments concerning our collaborations; · regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; · economic or other crises and other external factors; · period-to-period fluctuations in our revenues and other results of operations; · changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; and · sales of our common stock. We will not be able to control many of these factors, and we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our financial results will not necessarily be indicative of our future performance. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for biotechnology companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that may have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Our Common Stock is not listed on a national exchange and there is a limited market for the Common Stock which may make it more difficult for you to sell your stock. Our Common Stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board under the symbol "MHAN.OB." There is a limited trading market for our Common Stock which negatively impacts the liquidity of our Common Stock not only in terms of the number of shares that can be bought and sold at a given price, but also through delays in the timing of transactions and reduction in security analysts’ and the media’s coverage of us. Accordingly, there can be no assurance as to the liquidity of any markets that may develop for the Common Stock, the ability of holders of our Common Stock to sell the Common Stock, or the prices at which holders may be able to sell the Common Stock. 27 The fact that our common stock is not listed on a national exchange may negatively impact our ability to attract investors and to use our common stock to raise capital to fund our operations. In order to maintain liquidity in our common stock, we depend upon the continuing availability of a market on which our securities may be traded. We need to raise substantial additional funds in the future to continue our operations and the fact that our common stock is not listed on a national exchange may impact our ability to attract investors and to use our common stock to raise sufficient capital to continue to fund our operations. See the Risk Factor “We have no product revenues and will need to raise substantial additional funds in the future. If we are unable to obtain funds necessary to continue our operations, we will be required to delay, scale back or eliminate one or more of our drug development programs” above. If we fail to file periodic reports with the SEC our common stock may be removed from the OTCBB. Pursuant to the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board ("OTCBB") rules relating to the timely filing of periodic reports with the SEC, any OTCBB issuer which fails to file a periodic report (Form 10-Q's or 10-K's) by the due date of such report (as extended by the filing of a Form 12b-25), three (3) times during any twenty-four (24) month period is automatically de-listed from the OTCBB. In the event an issuer is de-listed, such issuer would not be eligible to be re-listed on the OTCBB for a period of one-year, during which time any subsequent late filing would reset the one-year period of de-listing. If the Company is late in its filings three times in any twenty-four (24) month period and is de-listed from the OTCBB, the Common Stock would likely be listed for trading only on the “Pink Sheets,” which generally provide an even less liquid market than the OTCBB. In such event, investors may find it more difficult to trade the Common Stock or to obtain accurate, current information concerning market prices for the Common Stock. There is a risk of market fraud. OTCBB securities are frequent targets of fraud or market manipulation. Not only because of their generally low price, but also because the OTCBB reporting requirements for these securities are less stringent than for listed or Nasdaq traded securities, and no exchange requirements are imposed. Dealers may dominate the market and set prices that are not based on competitive forces. Individuals or groups may create fraudulent markets and control the sudden, sharp increase of price and trading volume and the equally sudden collapse of market prices. Penny stock regulations may impose certain restrictions on marketability of our securities. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted Rule 15g-9 which establishes the definition of a “penny stock,” for the purposes relevant to us, as any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or with an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require: · that a broker or dealer approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks; and · the broker or dealer receives from the investor a written agreement to the transaction, setting forth the identity and quantity of the penny stock to be purchased. In order to approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks, the broker or dealer must: · obtain financial information and investment experience objectives of the person; and · make a reasonable determination that the transactions in penny stocks are suitable for that person and the person has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be capable of evaluating the risks of transactions in penny stocks. 28 The broker or dealer must also deliver, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prescribed by the Commission relating to the penny stock market, which, in highlight form: · sets forth the basis on which the broker or dealer made the suitability determination; and · that the broker or dealer received a signed, written agreement from the investor prior to the transaction. Generally, brokers may be less willing to execute transactions in securities subject to the “penny stock” rules. This may make it more difficult for investors to dispose of our Common Stock and cause a decline in the market value of our stock. Disclosure also must be made about the risks of investing in penny stocks in both public offerings and in secondary trading and about the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and the rights and remedies available to an investor in cases of fraud in penny stock transactions. Finally, monthly statements have to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. We have not paid dividends in the past and do not expect to pay dividends in the future, and any return on investment may be limited to the value of your stock. We have never paid dividends on our Common Stock and do not anticipate paying any dividends for the foreseeable future. You should not rely on an investment in our stock if you require dividend income. Further, you will only realize income on an investment in our stock in the event you sell or otherwise dispose of your shares at a price higher than the price you paid for your shares. Such a gain would result only from an increase in the market price of our Common Stock, which is uncertain and unpredictable. If we are unable to obtain future capital on acceptable terms, this will negatively affect our business operations and current investors. We expect that in the future we will seek additional capital through public or private financings. Additional financing may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If additional capital is raised through the sale of equity, or securities convertible into equity, further dilution to then existing stockholders will result. In addition, certain warrants held by certain of our investors and the Nordic Put contain full-ratchet anti-dilution protection provisions which would result in significant dilution to existing stockholders in the event we are required to raise capital at an effective price per share below $0.07 per common share. If additional capital is raised through the incurrence of debt, our business could be affected by the amount of leverage incurred. For instance, such borrowings could subject us to covenants restricting our business activities, paying interest would divert funds that would otherwise be available to support commercialization and other important activities, and holders of debt instruments would have rights and privileges senior to those of equity investors. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing on a timely basis, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate some of our planned activities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the business. 29 ITEM 