Item 1A. Risk factors Discussion of our business and operations included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be read together with the risk factors set forth below. They describe various risks and uncertainties to which we are or may become subject. These risks and uncertainties, together with other factors described elsewhere in this report, have the potential to affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies or prospects in a material and adverse manner. New risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our financial performance. Each of the risks described below could adversely impact the value of our securities. These statements, like all statements in this report, speak only as of the date of this report (unless another date is indicated), and we undertake no obligation to update or revise the statements in light of future developments. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in commercializing any of the Company’s products or if any of our products are commercialized, that they will be profitable for the Company. The Company has only had a limited operating history and generates limited revenue from operations upon which an evaluation of our prospects can be made. The Company’s prospects must be considered keeping in mind the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered in the establishment of a new business in a constantly changing industry. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to achieve profitable operations in the foreseeable future, if at all. The Company has identified a number of specific risk areas that may affect our operations and results in the future: Company specific risks If we are unable to license or otherwise monetize our intellectual property or generate revenue and profit through those assets, there is a significant risk that our intellectual property monetization strategy will fail. Effective June 1, 2012, we acquired an interest in the ‘088 Patent, entitled “Gaming Device Having a Second Separate Bonusing Event” that we plan to license or otherwise monetize. If our efforts to generate revenue from the ‘088 Patent fail, we will incur significant losses and may be unable to acquire additional intellectual property assets. If this occurs, our patent monetization strategy will likely fail. We plan to commence additional legal proceedings against companies in the gaming industry to enforce our intellectual property rights, and we expect such litigation to be time-consuming and may adversely affect our financial condition and ability to operate our business. To license or otherwise monetize the ‘088 Patent, we have commenced legal proceedings against the owners of gaming devices pursuant to which we allege that such companies infringed on the Patent. Our viability will be highly dependent on the outcome of this litigation, and there is a risk that we may be unable to achieve the results that we desire from such litigation, which failure would harm our overall business. In addition, the potential defendants in the litigation are much larger than us and have substantially more resources, which could make our litigation efforts more difficult. Disputes regarding the assertion of patents and other intellectual property rights are highly complex and technical. Once initiated, we may be forced to litigate against others to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of other parties’ proprietary rights. The defendants or other third parties involved in potential lawsuits may allege defenses and/or file counterclaims in an effort to avoid or limit liability and damages for patent infringement. If such defenses or counterclaims are successful, they may preclude our ability to derive licensing revenue from our patents. A negative outcome of any such litigation, or one or more claims contained within any such litigation, could materially and adversely impact our business. While we believe that the ‘088 Patent is infringed upon by certain companies, there is a risk that a court will find the ‘088 Patent invalid, not infringed or unenforceable and/or that the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (“USPTO”) will either invalidate the ‘088 Patent or materially narrow the scope of their claims during the course of a re-examination. In addition, even with a positive trial court verdict, the ‘088 Patent may be invalidated, found not to be infringed or rendered unenforceable on appeal. This risk may occur in litigations we bring. If this were to occur, it would have a material adverse effect on the viability of the Company and our operations. We believe that certain gaming companies infringe on the ‘088 Patent, but recognize that obtaining and collecting a judgment against such infringers may be difficult or impossible. Patent litigation is inherently risky and the outcome is uncertain. Some of the parties that we believe infringe on the ‘088 Patent are large and well-financed companies with substantially greater resources than us. We believe that these parties would devote a substantial amount of resources in an attempt to avoid or limit a finding that they are liable for infringing on the ‘088 Patent or, in the event liability is found, to avoid or limit the amount of associated damages. In addition there is a risk that these parties may file re-examinations or other proceedings with the USPTO or other government agencies in an attempt to invalidate, narrow the scope or render unenforceable the ‘088 Patent. 5 At this time, we cannot predict the outcome of such litigation or administrative action, and if we are unsuccessful in our litigation efforts for any reason, our business would be significantly harmed. Moreover, in connection with any of our present or future patent enforcement actions, it is possible that a defendant may request and/or a court may rule that we have violated statutory authority, regulatory authority, federal rules, local court rules, or governing standards relating to the substantive or procedural aspects of such enforcement actions. In such event, a court may issue monetary sanctions against us or award attorneys’ fees and/or expenses to one or more of the defendants, which could be material, and if we are required to pay such monetary sanctions, attorneys’ fees and/or expenses, such payment could materially harm our operating results and financial position. In addition, it is difficult in general to predict the outcome of patent enforcement litigation at the trial level. There is a higher rate of appeals in patent enforcement litigation than more standard business litigation. Such appeals are expensive and time-consuming, and the outcomes of such appeals are sometimes unpredictable, resulting in increased costs and reduced or delayed revenue. Finally, we believe that the more prevalent patent enforcement actions become, the more difficult it will be for us to license the ‘088 Patent without engaging in litigation. As a result, we may need to increase the number of our patent enforcement actions to cause infringing companies to license the ‘088 Patent or pay damages for lost royalties. This will adversely affect our operating results due to the high costs of litigation and the uncertainty of the results. New legislation, regulations or court rulings related to enforcing patents could harm our business and operating results. If Congress, the USPTO or the courts implement new legislation, regulations or rulings that impact the patent enforcement process or the rights of patent holders, these changes could negatively affect our business model. For example, limitations on the ability to bring patent enforcement claims, limitations on potential liability for patent infringement, lower evidentiary standards for invalidating patents, increases in the cost to resolve patent disputes and other similar developments could negatively affect our ability to assert our patent or other intellectual property rights. In addition, on September 16, 2011, the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act (or the Leahy-Smith Act), was signed into law. The Leahy-Smith Act includes a number of significant changes to United States patent law. These changes include provisions that affect the way patent applications will be prosecuted and may also affect patent litigation. The USPTO is currently developing regulations and procedures to govern administration of the Leahy-Smith Act, and many of the substantive changes to patent law associated with the Leahy-Smith Act will not become effective until one year or 18 months after enactment. Accordingly, it is too early to tell what, if any, impact the Leahy-Smith Act will have on the operation of our business. However, the Leahy-Smith Act and our implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Further, and in general, it is impossible to determine the extent of the impact of any new laws, regulations or initiatives that may be proposed, or whether any of the proposals will become enacted as laws. Compliance with any new or existing laws or regulations could be difficult and expensive, affect the manner in which we conduct our business and negatively impact our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our acquisitions of additional patent assets may be time consuming, complex and costly, which could adversely affect our operating results. Acquisitions of patent or other intellectual property assets, which are and will be critical to our business plan, are often time consuming, complex and costly to consummate. We may utilize many different transaction structures in such acquisitions and the terms of such acquisition agreements tend to be heavily negotiated. As a result, we expect to incur significant operating expenses and will likely be required to raise capital during the negotiation process even if the acquisition is ultimately not consummated. Even if we are able to acquire particular patent assets, there is no guarantee that we will generate sufficient revenue related to those patent assets to offset the acquisition costs. While we will seek to conduct confirmatory due diligence on the patent assets we are considering for acquisition, we may acquire patent assets from a seller who does not have proper title to those assets. In those cases, we may be required to spend significant resources to defend our interest in the patent assets and, if we are not successful, our acquisition may be invalid, in which case we could lose part or all of our investment in the assets. We may also identify patent or other intellectual property assets that cost more than we are prepared to spend with our own capital resources. We may incur significant costs to organize and negotiate a structured acquisition that does not ultimately result in an acquisition of any patent assets or, if consummated, proves to be unprofitable for us. These higher costs could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, we may acquire patents and technologies that are in the early stages of adoption in the commercial, industrial and consumer markets. Demand for some of these technologies will likely be untested and may be subject to fluctuation based upon the rate at which our licensees will adopt our patents and technologies in their products and services. As a result, there can be no assurance as to whether technologies we acquire or develop will have value that we can monetize. 6 In certain acquisitions of patent assets, we may seek to defer payment or finance a portion of the acquisition price. This approach may put us at a competitive disadvantage and could result in harm to our business. We have limited capital and may seek to negotiate acquisitions of patent or other intellectual property assets to defer, where possible, payments or we may seek to finance a portion of the acquisition price. These types of debt financing or deferred payment arrangements may not be as attractive to sellers of patent assets as it would be to receive the full purchase price for those assets in cash at the closing of the acquisition. As a result, we may not compete effectively against other companies in the market for acquiring patent assets, many of whom have greater cash resources than we have. In addition, any failure to satisfy our debt repayment obligations may result in adverse consequences to our operating results. Any failure to maintain or protect our patent assets or other intellectual property rights could significantly impair our return on investment from such assets and harm our brand, our business and our operating results. Our ability to compete in the intellectual property market largely depends on the superiority, uniqueness and value of our acquired patent assets and other intellectual property. To protect our proprietary rights, we will rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties, and protective contractual provisions. No assurances can be given that any of the measures we undertake to protect and maintain our intellectual property assets will have any measure of success. Following the acquisition of patent assets, we will likely be required to spend significant time and resources to maintain the effectiveness of those assets by paying maintenance fees and making filings with the USPTO. We may acquire patent assets, including patent applications, which require us to spend resources to prosecute the applications with the USPTO. Further, there is a material risk that patent related claims (such as, for example, infringement claims (and/or claims for indemnification resulting therefrom), unenforceability claims, or invalidity claims) will be asserted or prosecuted against us, and such assertions or prosecutions could materially and adversely affect our business. Regardless of whether any such claims are valid or can be successfully asserted, defending such claims could cause us to incur significant costs and could divert resources away from our other activities. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, any of the following or similar occurrences may reduce the value of our intellectual property: • our applications for patents, trademarks and copyrights may not be granted and, if granted, may be challenged or invalidated; • issued trademarks, copyrights, or patents may not provide us with any competitive advantages versus potentially infringing parties; • our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights may not be effective in preventing misappropriation of our technology; or • our efforts may not prevent the development and design by others of products or technologies similar to or competitive with, or superior to those we acquire and/or prosecute. Moreover, we may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights in certain foreign countries where we may do business in the future or from which competitors may operate. If we fail to maintain, defend or prosecute our patent assets properly, the value of those assets would be reduced or eliminated, and our business would be harmed. Weak global economic conditions may cause infringing parties to delay entering into licensing agreements, which could prolong our litigation and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Our business plan depends significantly on worldwide economic conditions, and the United States and world economies have recently experienced weak economic conditions. Uncertainty about global economic conditions poses a risk as businesses may postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and declines in income or asset values. This response could have a material negative effect on the willingness of parties infringing on our technology to enter into licensing or other revenue generating agreements voluntarily. Entering into such agreements is critical to our business plan, and our failure to do so could cause material harm to our business We may be unable to develop our existing or future technology. Our Medicsight CAD system may not deliver the levels of accuracy and reliability needed to make it a successful product in the market place. Additionally, the development of such accuracy and reliability may be indefinitely delayed or may never be achieved. Failure to develop this or other technology could have an adverse material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. 7 The market for Medicsight’s technology is slow to develop, if at all. The market for the Medicsight CAD products may be slower to develop or smaller than estimated or it may be more difficult to build the market than anticipated. The medical community may resist Medicsight CAD products or be slower to accept them than we anticipate. Revenues from Medicsight CAD may be delayed or costs may be higher than anticipated which may result in the Company requiring additional funding. Medicsight’s principal route to market is via commercial distribution partners. These arrangements are generally non-exclusive and have no guaranteed sales volumes or commitments. The partners may be slower to sell our products than anticipated. Any financial, operational or regulatory risks that affect our partners could also affect the sales of our products. In the current economic environment, hospitals and clinical purchasing budgets that are reliant on external debt financing may result in purchasing decisions being delayed. If any of these situations were to occur this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. We may be slow to receive required regulatory approvals from respective government regulators, if we receive them at all. The Medicsight CAD system is subject to regulatory requirements in the USA, Europe, Japan, China and our other targeted markets. Necessary regulatory approvals may not be obtained or may be delayed. We may incur substantial additional costs in obtaining regulatory approvals for our products in our targeted markets. Any delays in obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals increase the risk that our competitors’ products are approved before our own. The failure to obtain these approvals on a timely basis and/or the associated costs could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. The medical imaging market we operate in is highly competitive. There are a number of groups and organizations, such as software companies in the medical imaging field, multi-detector computerized tomography scan (“MDCT”) manufacturers, screening companies and other healthcare providers that may develop a competitive offering to the Medicsight CAD products. In addition, these competitors may have significantly greater resources than us. We cannot make any assurance that they will not attempt to develop such offerings, that they will not be successful in developing such offerings or that any offerings they may develop will not have a competitive edge over Medicsight CAD products. With delayed regulatory approvals and/or disputed clinical claims we may not have a commercial or clinical advantage over competitors’ products. Should a superior offering come to market, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. We are a developing company with limited revenues from operations. We have incurred significant operating losses since inception and generate limited revenues from operations. As a result, we have generated negative cash flows from operations and have an accumulated deficit of $288,447, as of December 31, 2012. We are operating in a developing industry based on a new technology and our primary source of funds to date has been through the issuance of securities and borrowing funds. There can be no assurance that management’s efforts will be successful or that the products we develop and market will be accepted by consumers. If our products are ultimately unsuccessful in the market, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. We face financial risks as we are a developing company. We have incurred significant operating losses since inception and have limited revenue from operations. As a result, we have generated negative cash flows from operations and our cash balances continue to reduce. While we are optimistic and believe appropriate actions are being taken to mitigate this, there can be no assurance that attempts to reduce cash outflows will be successful and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations. The protection of our intellectual property may be uncertain and we may face claims of others. Although we have received patents and have filed patent applications with respect to certain aspects of our technology, we generally do not rely on patent protection with respect to our products and technologies. Instead, we rely primarily on a combination of trade secret and copyright law, employee and third party non-disclosure agreements and other protective measures to protect intellectual property rights pertaining to our products and technologies. Such measures may not provide meaningful protection of our trade secrets, know how or other intellectual property in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure. Others may independently develop similar technologies or duplicate our technologies. In addition, to the extent that we apply for any patents, such applications may not result in issued patents or, if issued, such patents may not be valid or of value. Third parties could, in the future, assert infringement or misappropriation claims against us with respect to our current or future products and technologies, or we may need to assert claims of infringement against third parties. Any infringement or misappropriation claim by us or against us could place significant strain on our financial resources, divert management’s attention from our business and harm our reputation. The costs of prosecuting or defending an intellectual property claim could be substantial and could adversely affect our business, even if we are ultimately successful in prosecuting or defending any such claims. If our products or technologies are found to infringe the rights of a third party, we could be required to pay significant damages or license fees or cease production, any of which could have material adverse effect on our business. If a claim is brought against us, or we ultimately prove unsuccessful on the claims on our merits, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. 8 We may fail to attract and retain qualified personnel. There is intense competition from other companies, research and academic institutions, government entities and other organizations for qualified personnel in the areas of our activities. If we fail to identify, attract, retain and motivate these highly skilled personnel, we may be unable to continue our marketing and development activities, and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. If we do not effectively manage changes in our business, these changes could place a significant strain on our management and operations. To manage our growth successfully, we must continue to improve and expand our systems and infrastructure in a timely and efficient manner. Our controls, systems, procedures and resources may not be adequate to support a changing and growing company. If our management fails to respond effectively to changes and growth in our business, including acquisitions, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. General market risks We may not be able to access credit. We face the risk that we may not be able to access credit, either from lenders or suppliers. Failure to access credit from any of these sources could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Recent global economic trends could adversely affect our business, liquidity and financial results. Recent global economic conditions, including disruption of financial markets, could adversely affect us, primarily through limiting our access to capital and disrupting our clients’ businesses. In addition, continuation or worsening of general market conditions in economies important to our businesses may adversely affect our clients’ level of spending and ability to obtain financing, leading to us being unable to generate the levels of sales that we require. Current and continued disruption of financial markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. We may not be able to maintain effective internal controls. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal accounting controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an on-going basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could cause us to face regulatory action and also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Securities market risks Our stock price and trading volume may be volatile, which could result in losses for our stockholders. The equity markets may experience periods of volatility, which could result in highly variable and unpredictable pricing of equity securities. The market price of our Common stock could change in ways that may or may not be related to our business, our industry or our operating performance and financial condition and could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our Common stock. We cannot predict the potential impact of these periods of volatility on the price of our Common stock. The Company cannot assure you that the market price of our Common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. If our Common stock is delisted from the NYSE MKT LLC, the Company would be subject to the risks relating to penny stocks. If our Common stock were to be delisted from trading on the NYSE MKT LLC and the trading price of the Common stock were below $5.00 per share on the date the Common stock were delisted, trading in our Common stock would also be subject to the requirements of certain rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). These rules require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trades involving a stock defined as a "penny stock" and impose various sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell penny stocks to persons other than established customers and accredited investors, generally institutions. These additional requirements may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in securities that are classified as penny stocks, which could severely limit the market price and liquidity of such securities and the ability of purchasers to sell such securities in the secondary market. A penny stock is defined generally as any non-exchange listed equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. 9 Item 1B. Unresolved staff comments Not applicable. 