ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSOur financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows are subject to many risks, including, but not limited to, those set forth below.Risks Related to the MergerThe Merger is subject to various closing conditions, including regulatory approvals, and other uncertainties and there can be no assurances as to whether and when it may be completed. On February 20, 2014, Emeritus and Brookdale entered into the Merger Agreement, pursuant to which Brookdale Merger Sub Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Brookdale, will merge with and into Emeritus, with Emeritus continuing as the surviving corporation and wholly owned subsidiary of Brookdale. Completion of the Merger is subject to certain closing conditions, including, among other things: (i) shareholder approval from the Emeritus shareholders and Brookdale shareholders, (ii) the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the HSR Act, (iii) absence of legal impediments preventing consummation of the Merger, (iv) the effectiveness of the registration statement on Form S-4 to be filed by Brookdale relating to the shares of Brookdale common stock to be issued in the Merger, (v) approval by the New York Stock Exchange of the listing of shares of Brookdale common stock to be issued to Emeritus shareholders under the Merger Agreement, (vi) the receipt of required regulatory approvals and lender consents, (vii) the delivery of opinions from counsel to each of Emeritus and Brookdale to the effect that the Merger will be treated as a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and (viii) the absence 16Table of Contentsof a material adverse effect with respect to the Company, as well as other conditions to closing as are customary in transactions such as the Merger. A number of the closing conditions are outside of our control and we cannot predict with certainty whether and when any of the required closing conditions will be satisfied or if other uncertainties may arise. In addition, regulatory entities and lenders could impose requirements or obligations as conditions for their approvals which could delay or increase the cost of the Merger and otherwise negatively impact our performance and financial condition. Despite our best efforts, we may not be able to satisfy or receive in a timely fashion the various closing conditions and obtain the necessary approvals, and such failure or delay in completing the Merger may cause uncertainty or other negative consequences that may materially and adversely affect our performance, financial condition, results of operations, price per share of our common stock and perceived acquisition value. Failure to complete the Merger could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. There is no assurance that the conditions to the Merger will be satisfied in a timely manner or at all or that the Merger will occur. Further, there is no assurance that any event, change or other circumstances will not occur that could give rise to the termination of the Merger Agreement. If the Merger is not completed for any reason, we will be subject to several risks, including without limitation, (i) the price of our common stock may decline if the Merger is not completed, to the extent our current stock price reflects a market assumption that the Merger will occur; (ii) we will remain liable for significant transaction costs that would be payable even if the Merger is not completed; (iii) a failed transaction may result in negative publicity and a negative impression of Emeritus in the investment community; (iv) matters related to the Merger have required and may require substantial commitments of time and resources by our management that could otherwise have been devoted to other business opportunities that would have been beneficial to Emeritus; and (v) any disruptions to our business resulting from the announcement and pendency of the Merger, including any adverse changes in our relationships with our residents, employees, vendors, lenders and landlords could continue or accelerate in the event of a failed transaction. For these and other reasons, failure to consummate the Merger could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.If the Merger Agreement is terminated, we may, under certain circumstances, be obligated to pay a termination fee or break-up fee to Brookdale. If the Merger is not completed, in certain circumstances, we would still be liable for significant transaction costs and could also be required to pay a termination fee of $13.5 million, in the event we fail to obtain approval from our shareholders, or a break-up fee of $53.0 million in other specific circumstances, including without limitation, a change in our board’s recommendation to our shareholders or termination to accept an alternative acquisition proposal. Payment of the termination fee or break-up fee may require us to use available cash that would have otherwise been available for general corporate purposes, which could materially and adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. While the Merger is pending, we are subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions that could materially and adversely affect our business. The Merger Agreement includes restrictions on the conduct of our business prior to completing the Merger, subjecting us to a variety of specified limitations absent Brookdale’s prior written consent. These restrictions and other contractual arrangements in the Merger Agreement may delay or prevent us from or limit our ability to exercise business strategies, respond effectively to industry developments, competitive pressures and other business opportunities or to make other changes to our business prior to completion of the Merger or termination of the Merger Agreement. In addition, employees, residents and other persons with whom we have a relationship may have concerns about effects of the Merger, which may cause them to terminate such relationships. It is possible that the persons with whom we have a business relationship may delay or defer certain business decisions or might decide to seek to terminate, change or renegotiate their relationship with us as a result of the Merger. Similarly, current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with us following completion of the Merger, which may materially and adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key employees. If any of these effects were to occur, it could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Merger Agreement and Voting Agreement contain provisions that could discourage or limit our ability to pursue an alternative acquisition proposal to the Merger. The Merger Agreement prohibits Emeritus from initiating, soliciting or knowingly encouraging the submission of, or participating in any discussions or negotiations with respect to certain alternative acquisition proposals with third parties, subject to the exceptions in the Merger Agreement. In addition, our Chairman, Daniel R. Baty, and certain of his affiliates (the “Baty Shareholders”) entered into a voting agreement with Brookdale, pursuant to which the Baty Shareholders agreed to vote in favor of the approval of the Merger Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby, and to vote against any alternative acquisition proposals. These provisions limit our ability to pursue offers from third parties, or may discourage an otherwise interested third party from considering or proposing an alternative 17Table of Contentsacquisition transaction, even one that could result in greater value to our shareholders than the value resulting from the Merger. Although we are permitted in certain circumstances to consider proposals that may lead to a “superior proposal” (as defined in the Merger Agreement), the potential break-up fee may result in a third party offering a lower value to our shareholders or discourage third parties altogether from pursuing an acquisition proposal with respect to Emeritus. Emeritus shareholders cannot be sure of the value of the consideration they will receive as a result of the Merger because the exchange ratio used to determine the number of shares that shareholders receive as a result of the Merger will not be adjusted. Pursuant to the terms of the Merger, at the effective time of the Merger, each issued and outstanding share of Emeritus common stock will be canceled and converted into the right to receive consideration equal to 0.95 of one share of Brookdale common stock. The ratio of the number of shares of Brookdale common stock to be issued in exchange for shares of Emeritus common stock will not be adjusted to reflect any changes in the stock price of either Emeritus or Brookdale. The market price of Brookdale common stock at the time of completion of the Merger may vary significantly from the market price of Emeritus common stock on the date the Merger Agreement was executed or at other later dates, including the date on which Emeritus shareholders will vote on the approval of the Merger Agreement. Because we will not adjust the exchange ratio to reflect any changes in the market price of Emeritus common stock or Brookdale common stock, the market value of the Brookdale common stock issued in connection with the Merger and the Emeritus common stock surrendered in connection with the Merger may be higher or lower than the values of those shares on earlier dates. Stock price changes may result from market reaction to the announcement of the Merger and market assessment of the likelihood that the Merger will be completed, changes in the business, operations or prospects of Emeritus or Brookdale prior to or following the Merger, regulatory considerations, general business, market, industry or economic conditions and other factors both within and beyond the control of Emeritus and Brookdale.Uncertainties regarding Brookdale’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may affect the value of the consideration received by Emeritus shareholders. Under the Merger Agreement, Brookdale is subject to very limited restrictions during the pendency of the Merger, including a restriction prohibiting Brookdale from initiating, soliciting or knowingly encouraging the submission of, or participating in any discussions or negotiations with respect to certain alternative transactions. However, Brookdale is not limited from pursuing certain strategic or financial transactions that do not constitute a “takeover proposal” or that contemplate the purchase of the combined companies following the Merger. As a result, there is a risk that Brookdale’s business may change before or after the completion of the Merger, which may affect the value of Emeritus shares prior to the completion of the Merger and the value of Brookdale common stock held by Emeritus shareholders following the completion of the Merger.If the Merger is completed, the combined companies may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger. Because the consideration payable to our shareholders in the Merger consists solely of shares of Brookdale common stock, realization of the anticipated benefits in the Merger will depend on the ability of Brookdale and Emeritus to successfully integrate their respective businesses and operations. A significant amount of management’s attention and resources will be required to integrate the business, operations and support functions. The integration process may cause an interruption or loss of momentum in the combined companies’ businesses and financial performance. The integration process could also result in additional and unforeseen expenses. There can be no assurance that the contemplated expense savings and synergies anticipated from the Merger will be realized.Shareholder litigation against Emeritus and our directors could delay or prevent the Merger and cause us to incur significant costs and expenses. Transactions such as the Merger are often subject to lawsuits by shareholders. One of the conditions to the closing of the Merger is that no restraining order, injunction, judgment, order or decree shall have been issued by a court or other law, legal restraint or prohibition shall be in effect preventing the Merger. Consequently, any lawsuit with respect to the Merger may prevent the Merger from becoming effective within the expected time frame or at all. If the Merger is prevented or delayed, it could result in substantial costs to Emeritus and Brookdale. In addition, Emeritus will continue to incur significant costs in connection with the lawsuits, including costs associated with the indemnification of our directors and officers.Our executive officers and directors may have interests that are different from, or in addition to, those of our shareholders generally. Emeritus shareholders should be aware that certain of the directors and executive officers of Emeritus may have arrangements that provide them with interests in the Merger transaction that are different from, or in addition to, those of the shareholders of Emeritus, generally. For instance, it is anticipated that in connection with the Merger, Mr. Granger Cobb, who is our current President and Chief Executive Officer and also one of our directors, will be appointed to serve on the Brookdale board of directors. In addition, the Baty Shareholders have entered into a voting agreement, pursuant to which the Baty Shareholders have agreed to vote in favor of the Merger Agreement and against any alternative acquisition transaction. Other interests of our executive officers and directors include direct or indirect ownership of Emeritus common stock, stock options 18Table of Contentsand restricted stock, the acceleration of stock options and restricted stock upon consummation of the Merger, certain arrangements between certain of our executive officers and Brookdale and other interests. Further, certain executives may receive severance and other payments in the event of the Merger or if their employment is terminated following consummation of the Merger. The interests of our directors and executive officers in the proposed Merger will be described in more detail in the proxy statement regarding the proposed Merger that we will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission.Risks Related to our BusinessEmeritus has incurred losses since it began doing business, except for 2005, and may continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. Emeritus was organized and began operations in July 1993 and has operated at a loss since it began doing business, except for 2005. For December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, we recorded losses of $152.6 million, $84.8 million and $71.9 million, respectively. We believe that the historically aggressive growth of our Consolidated Portfolio through acquisitions and developments and related financing activities, as well as our inability (along with most of the assisted living industry) to significantly increase occupancy and rates at our communities, were among the causes of these losses. To date, at many of our communities, we have generally been able to stabilize occupancy and rate structures to levels that have resulted in positive cash flows from operating activities but not overall Company earnings. Our ongoing results of operations may not become profitable in line with our current expectations or may not become profitable at all. If the Company cannot generate sufficient cash flows to cover required interest, principal, and lease payments, it risks defaults on its debt agreements and leases. As of December 31, 2013, we had total debt, including interest, of $1.9 billion, with minimum annual payments of $239.8 million due in 2014, and have both long-term operating and capital lease obligations, including interest, of $8.8 billion requiring minimum payments of an additional $375.5 million in 2014. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows to make such payments as required and we are unable to renegotiate payments or obtain additional equity or debt financing, a lender could foreclose on the communities secured by the respective indebtedness or, in the case of a lease, could terminate our lease, resulting in loss of income and asset value. In some cases, our indebtedness is secured by a particular community and a pledge of our interests in a subsidiary entity that owns that community. In the event of a default, a lender could avoid judicial procedures required to foreclose on real property by foreclosing on our pledge instead, thus accelerating the foreclosure of that community. Furthermore, because of cross-default and cross-collateralization provisions in certain of our mortgage and lease agreements, if we default on one of our payment obligations, we could adversely affect a significant number of our communities. Because the Company is highly leveraged, we may not be able to respond to changing business and economic conditions or continue with selected acquisitions. A substantial portion of our future cash flows will be designated to debt service and lease payments. In the past, we have occasionally been dependent on third-party financing and disposition of assets to fund these obligations in full and we may be required to do so in the future. In addition, we are periodically required to refinance these obligations as they mature. As of December 31, 2013, our total debt, including interest, was $1.9 billion, and our payment obligations, including interest, under long-term operating and capital leases were $8.8 billion. These circumstances could reduce our flexibility and ability to respond to our business needs, including changing business and financial conditions such as increasing interest rates and opportunities to expand our business through selected acquisitions.We may be unable to increase or stabilize our occupancy rates at levels that would result in positive earnings. In previous years, we have been unable to increase our occupancy to levels that would result in net income on a sustained basis. Our historical losses have resulted, in part, from occupancy levels that were lower than anticipated when we acquired or developed our communities. Our occupancy levels may not increase in the future and may never reach levels necessary to achieve net income.We may not find additional funding through public or private financing on acceptable terms. We may not find adequate equity, debt, sale-leaseback or other financing when we need it or on terms acceptable to us. This could affect our ability to finance our operations or refinance our communities to avoid the consequences of default and foreclosure under our existing financing as described elsewhere. In addition, if we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our shareholders may experience dilution in their investment.If we fail to comply with financial covenants contained in our debt instruments, our lenders may accelerate the repayment of the related debt. From time to time, we have failed to comply with certain covenants in our financing and lease agreements relating generally to matters such as cash flow, debt, and lease coverage ratios, and certain other performance standards. In the future, we may be unable to comply with these or other covenants. If we fail to comply with any of these requirements and are not able to obtain waivers, our lenders could accelerate the repayment of the related indebtedness so that it becomes due and 19Table of Contentspayable prior to its stated due date, and/or the lessors could terminate lease agreements. We may be unable to repay or refinance this debt if it becomes due.We self-insure many of our liabilities. In recent years, participants in the long-term care industry have experienced a number of lawsuits alleging negligence, malpractice, or other related legal theories. Many of these suits involve large claims and significant legal costs. We currently face such suits because of the nature of our business and expect to continue to do so in the future. For 267 of the 497 communities in our Consolidated Portfolio, we are self-insured and, as such, prior to October 2013, are responsible for the full loss of any professional liability claims. In October 2013, we purchased a professional liability commercial insurance policy with a retention of $5.0 million per claim and a policy limit of $15.0 million. Professional liability claims incurred subsequent to September 2013 will be subject to this policy, limiting our liability for such claims.Claims against us, regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, may also adversely affect the reputation of our communities, undermine our ability to attract residents or expand our business and would require management to devote time to matters unrelated to the operation of our business. We review our liability insurance annually, but we may not be able to obtain third-party liability insurance coverage in the future or, if available, on acceptable terms.In addition to professional liability claims and claims related to the Merger as discussed above, the Company is at risk for the following:Whistleblower Lawsuits - The Company may be subject to qui tam or “whistleblower” lawsuits under the False Claims Act and comparable federal and state laws for allegedly submitting fraudulent bills for services to the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Qui tam lawsuits typically remain under seal (and, as a result, are usually unknown to the defendant) for some time while the government decides whether or not to intervene on behalf of a private qui tam plaintiff and take the lead in the litigation.Employment-related Lawsuits - The Company’s operations are subject to a variety of federal and state employment-related laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the U.S. Fair Labor Standards Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act, regulations of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the Office of Civil Rights and state attorneys general, federal and state wage and hour laws, and a variety of laws enacted by the federal and state governments that govern these and other employment-related matters. Accordingly, the Company is currently subject to employee-related claims and other lawsuits and proceedings in connection with the Company’s operations, including those related to alleged wrongful discharge, illegal discrimination and violations of equal employment and federal and state wage and hour laws. Minimum Staffing Lawsuits - Various states in which the Company operates have established minimum staffing requirements or may establish minimum staffing requirements in the future. While the Company seeks to comply with all applicable staffing requirements, the regulations in this area are complex and the Company may experience compliance issues from time to time.Ordinary Course Matters - In addition to the matters described above, the Company is subject to various other claims, lawsuits and governmental audits, investigations and proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business.The defense of the foregoing claims, lawsuits and governmental audits, investigations and proceedings, certain of which may allege large amounts of damages and losses, may require the Company to incur significant expense and may necessitate significant time and attention from the Company’s management. Adverse outcomes in such matters, whether as a result of litigation or settlement, may (i) jeopardize the Company’s participation in certain state and federal healthcare programs, (ii) result in citations, civil and criminal penalties (including the loss of the Company’s licenses to operate one or more communities or healthcare activities), recoupment and/or substantial compensatory and punitive damages and attorneys’ fees that may, either individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity, (iii) cause the Company to close or sell one or more of its properties or otherwise modify the way in which the Company conducts its business, (iv) damage the Company’s reputation in various markets, which could adversely affect the Company’s ability to attract residents, patients, and employees, and (v) in the case of “whistleblower” lawsuits brought under the False Claims Act and comparable federal and state laws, result in awards of bounties to private qui tam plaintiffs who successfully bring these lawsuits and to the government programs.We face risks associated with acquisitions. In the past, we have sought selective acquisition opportunities. Under the Merger Agreement, we are subject to a number of restrictions limiting our ability to acquire businesses or assets. To the extent we do 20Table of Contentsidentify and complete any future acquisition opportunities, subject to the restrictions set forth in the Merger Agreement, we will face a number of risks, similar to those encountered in connection with our prior acquisitions of communities. Existing communities available for acquisition may frequently serve or target different market segments than those we presently serve. It may be necessary in these cases to reposition and renovate acquired communities or turn over the existing resident population to achieve a resident care level and income profile that is consistent with our objectives. In some cases in the past, these obstacles have delayed the achievement of acceptable occupancy levels and increased operating and capital expenditures. Even if we try to minimize our risk by targeting assisted living communities with established operations, we may need to make staff and operating management personnel changes to successfully integrate acquired communities into our existing operations. These efforts may not prove to be successful or timely. We also may face unforeseen liabilities attributable to the prior operator of the acquired communities, against whom we may have little or no recourse. We also face risks associated with acquiring ancillary services businesses, especially since we do not have a history of operating such businesses.Competition for the acquisition of strategic assets from buyers that have lower costs of capital than us or lower return expectations than we do could limit our ability to compete for strategic acquisitions and therefore to grow our business effectively. Several real estate investment trusts, or REITs, have similar asset acquisition objectives as we do, along with greater financial resources and lower costs of capital than we are able to obtain. This may increase competition for acquisitions that would be suitable to us, making it more difficult for us to compete and successfully implement our growth strategy. There is significant competition among potential acquirers in the senior living industry, including REITs, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement our growth strategy or complete acquisitions, which could limit our ability to grow our business effectively. Partially as a result of tax law changes enacted through RIDEA, we now compete more directly with the various publicly-traded healthcare REITs for the acquisition of senior housing properties.If the Company is unable to refinance its debt that is scheduled to come due in 2014 on reasonable terms, it may have an adverse effect on the Company and the market price of our common stock. The Company has principal payments on long-term debt of $153.0 million due in 2014, including balloon payments on debt maturing totaling $106.7 million. If the Company is not able to generate sufficient cash flows to make the required payments or refinance this debt on reasonable terms, it may have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock and other adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We expect competition in our industry to increase, which could cause our occupancy rates and resident fees to decline. The senior living industry is highly competitive, and given the relatively low barriers to entry and continuing healthcare cost containment pressures, we expect that our industry will become increasingly competitive in the future. It is possible that market saturation in some locales could have an adverse effect on our communities and their ability to reach and maintain stabilized occupancy levels. Moreover, the senior housing services industry has been subject to pressures that have resulted in the consolidation of many small, local operations into larger regional and national multi-facility operations. We compete with other companies providing assisted living services as well as numerous other companies providing similar service and care alternatives, such as home healthcare agencies, independent living facilities, retirement communities, and skilled nursing facilities. We expect that competition from new market entrants will increase as senior living residences achieve increased market awareness. Some of these competitors may have substantially greater financial resources than we do. Increased competition may limit our ability to attract or retain residents or maintain our existing rate structures. This could lead to lower occupancy rates or lower rate structures in our communities.If development of new senior living facilities outpaces demand, we may experience decreased occupancy, depressed margins, and diminished operating results. In the future, some senior living markets in which we operate could become overbuilt. The barriers to entry in the senior living industry are low. Consequently, the development of new senior living facilities could outpace demand. Overbuilding in the markets in which we operate could thus cause the Company to experience decreased occupancy and depressed margins and could otherwise adversely affect our results of operations. Market forces could undermine our efforts to attract seniors with sufficient resources. We rely on the ability of our residents to pay our fees from their own or family financial resources. We believe that only seniors with income or assets meeting or exceeding the comparable median in the region where our senior living communities are located can afford our fees. The economic recession, slowly recovering housing market, inflation, or other circumstances may undermine the ability of seniors to pay for our services. If we encounter difficulty in attracting seniors with adequate resources to pay for our services, our occupancy rates may decline or we may be forced to lower our rental and service rates. Our labor costs may increase and may not be matched by corresponding increases in rates we charge to our residents. We compete with other providers of assisted living services and long-term care in attracting and retaining qualified and skilled 21Table of Contentspersonnel. We depend on our ability to attract and retain management personnel responsible for the day-to-day operations of each of our communities. If we are unable to attract or retain qualified community management personnel, our results of operations may suffer. In addition, possible shortages of nurses or trained personnel may require us to enhance our wage and benefits packages to compete in the hiring and retention of personnel. We also depend on the available labor pool of semi-skilled and unskilled employees in each of the markets in which we operate. From time to time we are the subject of union organizing activity that, if successful, could impact our labor costs. As a result of these and other factors, our labor costs may increase and may not be matched by corresponding increases in rates we charge to our residents.The geographic concentration of our communities could leave us vulnerable to an economic downturn, regulatory changes or acts of nature in those areas, resulting in a decrease in our revenues or an increase in our costs, or otherwise negatively impacting our results of operations. We have a high concentration of communities in various geographic areas, including the states of Florida, Texas, California, Washington, Oregon and Arizona. As a result of this concentration, the conditions of local economies and real estate markets, changes in governmental rules and regulations, particularly with respect to assisted living communities, acts of nature and other factors that may result in a decrease in demand for senior living services in these states could have an adverse effect on our revenues, costs and results of operations. In addition, given the location of our communities, we are particularly susceptible to revenue loss, cost increase or damage caused by other severe weather conditions or natural disasters such as hurricanes, earthquakes or tornadoes. Any significant loss due to a natural disaster may not be covered by insurance and may lead to an increase in the cost of insurance. Some of our communities generate infectious medical waste due to the illness or physical condition of the residents. The management of infectious medical waste, including handling, storage, transportation, treatment, and disposal, is subject to regulation under various laws, including federal and state environmental laws, as described above under Business—Environmental Matters. These environmental laws set forth the management requirements, as well as permit, record-keeping, notice, and reporting obligations. Each of our communities has an agreement with a waste management company for the proper disposal of all infectious medical waste. The use of such waste management companies does not immunize us from alleged violations of such medical waste laws for operations for which we are responsible even if carried out by such waste management companies, nor does it immunize us from third-party claims for the cost to clean up disposal sites at which such wastes have been disposed. Any finding that we are not in compliance with these environmental laws could adversely affect our business and financial condition. While we are not aware of non-compliance with environmental laws related to infectious medical waste at our communities, these environmental laws are amended from time to time and we cannot predict when and to what extent liability may arise. In addition, because these environmental laws vary from state to state, expansion of our operations to states where we do not currently operate may subject us to additional restrictions on the manner in which we operate our communities. The Chairman of our board of directors, Daniel R. Baty, has personal interests that may conflict with ours. Mr. Baty has engaged in a number of transactions with us, each of which has been approved by a committee of our independent directors. For example, Mr. Baty is the principal owner of Columbia Pacific, a private company engaged in the development and operation of senior living communities and hospitals in India and other parts of Asia. Columbia Pacific and certain of its affiliated partnerships also own assisted living communities, memory care communities, and independent living communities in the United States, some of which we manage under various management agreements. These financial interests and management and financing responsibilities of Mr. Baty with respect to Columbia Pacific and certain of their affiliated partnerships could present conflicts of interest with us, including potential competition for residents in markets where both companies operate and competing demands for the time and efforts of Mr. Baty.Mr. Baty’s potentially competitive activities are limited by a shared opportunities agreement between him and the Company. Under the terms of this agreement, Mr. Baty and Columbia Pacific must immediately present to the Company all investment opportunities in senior living communities and ancillary businesses in the United States, Canada, and China. For transactions in the United States and Canada, we then have the option to participate in the investment opportunity through an ownership interest and/or management contract as set forth in the agreement. For transactions in China, we have the option to invest in the opportunity up to 50% of the equity value and compete for management or consulting services.Mr. Baty financially supports some of our recent transactions and the operations of certain communities that we manage with limited guarantees and through his direct and indirect ownership of such communities; we would be unable to benefit from these transactions and managed communities without this support. As of December 31, 2013, we manage six communities owned by Mr. Baty or Columbia Pacific. Mr. Baty was also the guarantor of a portion of our obligations under a 24-community lease with an entity in which Mr. Baty has an ownership interest. We acquired these properties in February 2007 in a transaction in which the entity affiliated with Mr. Baty provided the Company with financing in the amount of $18.0 million for 22Table of Contentstwo years, which financing was paid off in July 2007. In 2004, Mr. Baty personally guaranteed $3.0 million of our obligations under a long-term lease with Healthcare Property Investors, Inc., an independent REIT, which terminated with the purchase of these communities in August 2007. Also in 2004, Mr. Baty guaranteed our obligations under a long-term lease relating to 20 communities. As part of this arrangement, which, as of December 31, 2013, continues to be in effect for seven of the communities (the “Cash Flow Sharing Communities”), he shares in 50.0% of the positive cash flow (as defined) and is responsible for 50.0% of the cash deficiency for these communities. In 2008, we entered into a 50-50 joint venture with Mr. Baty to purchase the real estate of eight of the Cash Flow Sharing Communities (three of which continue to be jointly owned as of December 31, 2013 and are included in the seven total remaining Cash Flow Sharing Communities), into which Mr. Baty contributed approximately $1.2 million in 2010 related to debt refinancings and $1.1 million in 2009. In 2009, we borrowed $3.2 million from Columbia Pacific to finance the purchases of two communities that we previously managed for Columbia Pacific. We subsequently paid off these loans in January 2011. We believe that we would have been unable to take advantage of these transactions and management opportunities without Mr. Baty’s individual and financial support. The ongoing administration of these transactions, however, could adversely affect these continuing relationships because our interests and those of Mr. Baty may not be congruent at all times. In addition, we cannot guarantee that his support will be available in the future. We may be unable to attract and retain key management personnel. We depend upon, and will continue to depend upon, the services of our senior management. The loss of services of our senior management could adversely affect our business and our results of operations. We also may be unable to attract and retain other qualified executive personnel critical to the success of our business.Our costs of compliance with government regulations may significantly increase in the future. Federal, state, and local authorities heavily regulate the healthcare industry, as described above under Business—Government Regulation. Regulations change frequently, and sometimes require us to make expensive changes in our operations. We cannot predict to what extent legislative or regulatory initiatives will be enacted or adopted or what effect any initiative would have on our business and operating results. Changes in applicable laws and new interpretations of existing laws can significantly affect our operations, as well as our revenues, particularly those from governmental sources, and our expenses. These laws and regulatory requirements could affect our ability to expand into new markets and to expand our services and communities in existing markets. In addition, if any of our presently licensed communities operates outside of its licensing authority, it may be subject to financial or other penalties, including closure of the community and/or liability to residents if injury occurs. Our residential communities are subject to varying degrees of regulation and licensing by local and state health and social service agencies and other regulatory authorities. In addition, our skilled nursing facilities and certain of our senior living communities are subject to extensive federal regulation. Federal, state, and local governments occasionally conduct unannounced investigations, audits, and reviews to determine whether violations of applicable rules and regulations exist. Devoting management and staff time and legal resources to such investigations, as well as any material violation by the Company that is discovered in any such investigation, audit, or review, could strain our resources and affect our results of operations. In addition, regulatory oversight of construction efforts associated with refurbishment could cause us to lose residents and disrupt community operations.We may be unable to satisfy all regulations and requirements or to acquire and maintain any required licenses on a cost-effective basis. We have occasionally received notices of regulatory violations, which we have resolved by paying fines or taking other measures such as limiting our business activities at a particular community until the violation is resolved. Failure to comply with applicable requirements could lead to enforcement action that could materially and adversely affect business and revenues. Loss, suspension, or modification of a license may also cause a default under certain of our leases and financing agreements and/or trigger cross-defaults.The federal and state laws governing assisted living are various and complex. While we endeavor to comply with all laws that regulate the licensure and operation of our communities, it is difficult to predict how our business could be affected if it were subject to an action alleging such violations.The Company is also subject to federal and state regulations regarding government-funded public assistance that prohibit certain business practices and relationships. Because we accept residents who receive financial assistance from governmental sources for their senior living services, we are subject to federal and state regulations that prohibit certain business practices and relationships. Failure to comply with these regulations could prevent reimbursement for our healthcare services under Medicare or Medicaid or similar state reimbursement programs. Our failure to comply with such regulations also could result in substantial financial penalties and/or the suspension or inability to renew our operating licenses. Acceptance of federal or state funds could subject the Company to potential false claims actions or whistleblower claims.23Table of ContentsOur entrance into the home healthcare and rehabilitation services business subjects the Company to additional federal and state laws and regulations and, if the Company fails to comply with these laws and regulations, could subject the Company to substantial financial and other penalties. Substantially all of our skilled nursing and ancillary services, including those provided by NOC, are reimbursed under Medicare programs. These services are subject to enhanced federal and state laws and regulations, including those regarding acquisition and maintenance of provider and supplier numbers, services provided, quality of care, provision of medically necessary items and services, and billing and claims submission. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject the Company to substantial financial and other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our business and revenues.We face possible environmental liabilities at each of our communities. Under various federal, state, and local environmental laws, ordinances, and regulations, as described above under Business—Environmental Matters, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be held liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances, including asbestos materials that could be located on, in, or under our community. These laws and regulations often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. We could face substantial costs of any required remediation or removal of these substances, and our liability typically is not limited under applicable laws and regulations. Our liability could exceed our communities’ value or the value of our assets. We may be unable to sell or rent our communities, or borrow using our communities as collateral, if any of these substances are present or if we fail to remediate them properly. Under these laws and regulations, if we arrange for the disposal of hazardous or toxic substances such as asbestos materials at a disposal site, we also may be liable for the costs of the removal or destruction of the hazardous or toxic substances at the disposal site. In addition to liability for these costs, we could be liable for governmental fines and injuries to persons or properties.Significant reforms to the United States healthcare system could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. The healthcare reforms contained in the ACA will impact us in some manner, including increasing our costs to provide healthcare benefits to our employees. The specific provisions of the ACA will be phased in over time through 2018, unless modifying legislation is passed before some of the provisions become effective. The ACA did not have a material financial impact on our Company in 2013. However, we could see significant cost increases beginning in 2014 when certain additional provisions of the legislation are required to be implemented.The ACA creates a series of robust transparency and reporting requirements for skilled nursing facilities, including requirements to disclose information on organizational structures, financial, clinical and other related data as well as information on officers, directors, trustees or managing employees. Skilled nursing facilities are required to certify to the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General that the information submitted is accurate and current. In addition, a primary goal of healthcare reform is to reduce costs, which includes reductions in the reimbursement paid to us and other healthcare providers. Although 80.4% of our 2013 community and ancillary services revenues came from private pay sources, these healthcare reforms or other similar healthcare reforms could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity.Changes in the reimbursement rates or methods or timing of payment from third-party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, or the implementation of other measures to reduce reimbursement for our services and products could result in a reduction in our revenues and operating margins or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations, and liquidity. We depend on reimbursement from third-party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, for a portion of our revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2013, we derived approximately 19.6% of our community and ancillary services revenues from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Nearly all of NOC’s services are reimbursed by Medicare. The Medicare and Medicaid programs are highly regulated and subject to frequent and substantial changes.There are continuing efforts to reform governmental healthcare programs, both as part of the ACA enacted in 2010 and otherwise, that could result in major changes in the healthcare delivery and reimbursement system on a national and state level. Reforms or other changes to the payment systems may be proposed or could be adopted by Congress or Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”). This could result in attempts to reduce or eliminate payments for federal and state healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. Moreover, uncertain economic conditions are also adversely affecting the budgets of individual states and of the federal government.The Budget Control Act of 2011, enacted on August 2, 2011, increased the United States debt ceiling in connection with deficit reductions over the next ten years. The Budget Control Act of 2011 also established a 12-member joint committee of Congress known as the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction. The goal of the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction was to 24Table of Contentspropose legislation to reduce the United States federal deficit by $1.5 trillion for fiscal years 2012-2021. Since such legislation was not enacted by December 23, 2011, approximately $1.2 trillion in domestic and defense spending reductions were scheduled to automatically begin on January 1, 2013, split evenly between domestic and defense spending. The American Taxpayer Relief Act, effective January 1, 2013, delayed until March 1, 2013 the mandatory sequestration cuts mandated by the Budget Control Act of 2011. On April 1, 2013, the mandated 2.0% reduction in Medicare payments went into effect. Although we can offset a portion of Medicare cuts through targeted expense reductions, the expense reductions did not fully offset the revenue decrease.In 2013, CMS issued a rule to update Medicare payment rates for home health agencies. The rule results in rebasing adjustments over a four-year period beginning in 2014. CMS estimates that net payments to home health agencies will decrease by approximately 1.5% in 2014.Although we cannot predict what other reform proposals will be adopted or finally implemented, healthcare reform and regulations, such as those described above, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity through, among other things, decreasing funds available for our services or increased operating costs.In addition to the risks described above, investing in Emeritus common stock involves the following risks.We may experience volatility in the market price of Emeritus common stock due to the lower trading volume and lower public ownership of Emeritus common stock. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and is likely to continue to be highly volatile. For example, our closing stock price ranged from $18.41 per share to $30.56 per share during 2013. Many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to significantly rise and fall, including:•reaction to the proposed Merger;•fluctuations in the price of Brookdale common stock;•fluctuations in our results of operations;•changes in our business, operations, or prospects;•changes in the regulatory environment;•sales of Emeritus common stock by affiliates;•the hiring or departure of key personnel;•announcements or activities by our competitors;•proposed acquisitions by us or our competitors;•financial results that fail to meet public market analysts’ expectations and changes in stock market analysts’ recommendations regarding us, other healthcare companies, or the healthcare industry in general;•adverse judgments or settlements obligating us to pay damages;•acts of war, terrorism, or national calamities;•industry, domestic and international market and economic conditions; and•decisions by investors to de-emphasize investment categories, groups, or strategies that include our Company or industry.In addition, the stock market periodically experiences significant price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations are often unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of Emeritus common stock. When the market price of a company’s stock drops significantly, shareholders may institute securities class action litigation against that company. Any litigation against us could cause us to incur substantial costs, divert our time and attention and other resources, or otherwise harm our business.Future sales of shares by existing shareholders could cause our stock price to decline. As of December 31, 2013, the Company has outstanding approximately 48,118,623 shares of common stock, of which our executive officers and directors and affiliates controlled by them beneficially own 6,829,560 shares. As discussed above, in connection with the Merger Agreement, the Baty Shareholders entered into a voting agreement pursuant to which Mr. Baty and certain of his affiliates agreed not to sell or transfer any shares of Emeritus common stock held by them, subject to certain exceptions. As of December 31, 2013, options for a total of 3,989,814 shares of common stock were outstanding under our equity incentive plans, of which a total of 2,825,370 shares were then exercisable. Of the shares exercisable, 1,022,308 shares were exercisable at a price in excess of our stock trading price as of December 31, 2013. All of the shares issuable on exercise of such vested options are eligible for sale in the public market. If our executive officers, directors, or significant shareholders sell, or indicate 25Table of Contentsan intention to sell, substantial amounts of Emeritus common stock in the public market, the trading price of our stock could decline.In addition, subject to the restrictions in the Merger Agreement, we may issue equity securities in the future, including securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or other equity securities, including sales of shares in connection with any future acquisitions, could be substantially dilutive to our shareholders. These sales may have a harmful effect on prevailing market prices for our common stock and our ability to raise additional capital in the financial markets at a time and price favorable to us. Moreover, to the extent that we issue restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights, options, or warrants to purchase our common stock in the future and those stock appreciation rights, options, or warrants are exercised or as the restricted stock units vest, our shareholders may experience further dilution. In 2013, 2012 and 2011, we issued a total of 371,725, 366,172, and 435,000 shares, respectively, of restricted stock to certain of our executive officers, respectively, which pursuant to their terms will vest over four years if specified Company annual performance criteria are met. In addition, in May 2013, we issued a total of 24,787 shares of restricted stock to our non-employee directors, which pursuant to their terms will vest on the day immediately prior to the annual shareholders meeting that follows the date of grant. Under the Merger Agreement, any in-the-money stock options or shares of restricted stock that have not yet vested will accelerate and the holders will receive shares of Brookdale common stock based on the ratios set forth in the Merger Agreement.Holders of our shares of common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle holders to purchase a pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, such sales or offerings could result in increased dilution to our shareholders. Our certificate of incorporation provides that we have authority to issue 100,000,000 shares of common stock and 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock. As of December 31, 2013, 48,118,623 shares of common stock and no shares of preferred or other capital stock were issued and outstanding.If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock may depend in part on any research reports that securities or industry analysts publish about the Company or our business. We currently have limited research coverage by securities and industry analysts. Lack of research coverage could negatively impact the market for our stock. In the event additional securities or industry analysts do initiate coverage of our Company and one or more of these analysts downgrade our common stock or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our common stock price would likely decline.We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any dividends on our common stock. We currently expect to retain any future earnings to finance the operation and expansion of our business. Future dividend payments will depend on our results of operations, financial condition, capital expenditure plans and other obligations and circumstances, and will be at the sole discretion of our board of directors. Some of our existing leases and lending arrangements contain provisions that restrict our ability to pay dividends, and we anticipate that the terms of future leases and debt financing arrangements may contain similar restrictions. Therefore, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Our issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect holders of our common stock. Subject to the limitations set forth in the Merger Agreement, our board of directors is authorized to issue preferred stock without any action on the part of our holders of common stock. Our board of directors also has the power, without shareholder approval, to set the terms of any such series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights, preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends, or if we liquidate, dissolve, or wind up our business, and other terms. If we issue preferred stock in the future that has preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the rights of holders of our common stock, or the price of our common stock, could be adversely affected.Antitakeover provisions of Washington law, our restated articles of incorporation and our restated bylaws may prevent or delay an acquisition of us that shareholders may consider favorable or may prevent or delay attempts to replace or remove our board of directors. Our restated articles of incorporation and restated bylaws contain provisions, such as the right of our directors to issue preferred stock from time to time with voting, economic, and other rights superior to those of our common stock without the consent of our shareholders, and prohibitions on cumulative voting in the election of directors, all of which could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. In addition, our restated articles of incorporation provide for our board of directors to be divided into three classes serving staggered terms of three years each, permit removal of directors only for cause by the holders of not less than two-thirds of the shares entitled to elect the director 26Table of Contentswhose removal is sought, and require two-thirds shareholder approval of certain matters, including business combination transactions not approved by our incumbent board of directors and the amendment of our restated bylaws. Furthermore, our restated bylaws require advance notice of shareholder proposals and nominations and impose restrictions on the persons who may call special shareholder meetings. In addition, Chapter 23B.19 of the Washington Business Corporation Act prohibits certain business combinations between us and certain significant shareholders unless certain conditions are met. These provisions may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our Company even if this change of control would benefit our shareholders.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED SEC STAFF COMMENTSNone.