Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors Commodity Price Levels May Affect Demand for Our Products Demand for many of our products depends primarily on the level of worldwide oil and gas exploration activity. That activity, in turn, depends primarily on prevailing oil and gas prices and availability of seismic data. Historically, the markets for oil and gas have been volatile, and those markets are likely to continue to be volatile. Oil and gas prices are subject to wide fluctuation in response to changes in the supply of and demand for oil and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. These factors include the level of consumer demand, weather conditions, domestic and foreign governmental regulations, price and availability of alternative fuels, political conditions and hostilities in the Middle East and other significant oil-producing regions, increases and decreases in foreign supply of oil and gas, prices of foreign imports and overall economic conditions. Any unexpected material changes in oil and gas prices or other market trends that adversely impacts seismic exploration activity would likely affect the demand for our products and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and liquidity. Our New Products May Not Achieve Market Acceptance Management’s outlook and assumptions are based on various macro-economic factors and internal assessments, and actual market conditions could vary materially from those assumed. In recent years, we have incurred significant expenditures to fund our research and development efforts, and we intend to continue those expenditures in the future. However, research and development is by its nature speculative, and we cannot assure 8 Index to Financial Statements you that these expenditures will result in the development of new products or services or that any new products and services we have developed recently or may develop in the future will be commercially marketable or profitable to us. In particular, we have incurred substantial expenditures to develop seismic products for reservoir characterization applications. In addition, we try to use some of our capabilities, particularly our cable manufacturing capabilities, to supply products to new markets. Further, we have incurred substantial expense and expended significant effort to develop our thermal solutions products. We cannot assure you that we will realize our expectations regarding acceptance of and revenues generated by our new products and services in existing or new markets. We May Experience Fluctuations in Quarterly Results of Operations Historically, the rate of new orders for our products has varied substantially from quarter to quarter. Moreover, we typically operate, and expect to continue to operate, on the basis of orders in hand for our products before we commence substantial manufacturing “runs.” The nature of our order backlog generally does not allow us to predict with any accuracy demand for our products more than approximately three months in advance. Thus, our ability to replenish orders and the completion of orders, particularly large orders for deepwater reservoir characterization projects, can significantly impact our operating results and cash flow for any quarter, and results of operations for any one quarter may not be indicative of results of operations for future quarters. These periodic fluctuations in our operating results could adversely affect our stock price. We Have a Relatively Small Public Float, and Our Stock Price May Be Volatile We have approximately 4.3 million shares outstanding held by non-affiliates. This small float results in a relatively illiquid market for our common stock. Our daily trading volume for the year ended September 30, 2006 averaged approximately 42,000 shares, which is relatively small, though higher than in prior years due to the sale by OYO Corporation, through OYO Corporation U.S.A., of 1,700,000 shares of our common stock during fiscal years 2006 and 2005. Our small float and daily trading volumes have in the past caused, and may in the future result in, significant volatility in our stock price. Our Credit Risk Could Increase If Our Customers Face Difficult Economic Circumstances We believe that our allowances for bad debts are adequate in light of known circumstances. However, we cannot assure you that additional amounts attributable to uncollectible receivables and bad debt write-offs will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. Many of our seismic contractor customers are not well capitalized and as a result cannot always pay our invoices when due. We have in the past incurred write-offs in our accounts receivable due to customer credit problems. We have found it necessary from time to time to extend trade credit, including on promissory notes, to long-term customers and others where some risks of non-payment exist. Although industry conditions have improved, some of our customers continue to experience liquidity difficulties, which increase those credit risks. An increase in the level of bad debts and any deterioration in our credit risk could adversely affect the price of our stock. Our Industry Is Characterized By Rapid Technological Development and Product Obsolescence Our instruments and equipment in both of our business segments are constantly undergoing rapid technological improvement. Our future success depends on our ability to continue to: • improve our existing product lines, • address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers, • maintain a reputation for technological leadership, • maintain market acceptance of our products, 9 Index to Financial Statements • anticipate changes in technology and industry standards, • respond to technological developments on a timely basis, and • develop new markets for our products and capabilities. Current competitors or new market entrants may develop new technologies, products or standards that could render our products obsolete. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in developing and marketing, on a timely and cost effective basis, product enhancements or new products that respond to technological developments, that are accepted in the marketplace or that comply with new industry standards. We Operate in Highly Competitive Markets The markets for most of our products are highly competitive. Many of our existing and potential competitors have substantially greater marketing, financial and technical resources than we do. Additionally, at least two competitors in our seismic business segment currently offer a broader range of instruments and equipment for sale than we do and market this equipment as “packaged” data acquisition systems. We do not currently offer for sale such a complete “packaged” data acquisition system. Further, certain of our competitors offer financing arrangements to customers on terms that we may not be able to match. In addition, new competitors may enter the market and competition could intensify. As to our thermal solutions products, we compete with other printing solutions, including inkjet and laser printing technologies, many of which are provided by large companies with significant resources. We cannot assure you that sales of our products will continue at current volumes or prices if current competitors or new market entrants introduce new products with better features, performance, price or other characteristics than our products. Competitive pressures or other factors also may result in significant price competition that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We Have a Limited Market for Our Products In our seismic business segment, we market our traditional products to contractors and large, independent and government-owned oil and gas companies. We estimate that, based on published industry sources, fewer than 30 seismic contracting companies are currently operating worldwide (excluding those operating in Russia and the former Soviet Union, India, the People’s Republic of China and certain Eastern European countries, where seismic data acquisition activity is difficult to verify). We estimate that fewer than 20 seismic contractors are engaged in marine seismic exploration. Due to these market factors, a relatively small number of customers, some of whom are experiencing financial difficulties, have accounted for most of our sales. From time to time these seismic contractors have sought to vertically integrate and acquire our competitors, which has influenced their supplier decisions before and after such transactions. The loss of a small number of these customers could materially and adversely impact sales of our seismic products. We Cannot Be Certain of the Effectiveness of Patent Protection We hold and from time to time apply for certain patents relating to some of our seismic data acquisition and other products. We also own several patents which relate to the development of dry thermal film. We cannot assure you that our patents will prove enforceable or free of challenge, that any patents will be issued for which we have applied or that competitors will not develop functionally similar technology outside the protection of any patents we have or may obtain. Our Foreign Subsidiaries and Foreign Marketing Efforts Face Additional Risks and Difficulties Net sales outside the United States accounted for approximately 64.6% of our net sales during fiscal year 2006 and are again expected to represent a substantial portion of our net sales for fiscal year 2007 and subsequent 10 Index to Financial Statements years. Substantially all of our sales from the United States are made in U.S. dollars, though from time to time we make sales in foreign currencies. As a result, we may be subject to foreign currency fluctuations on our sales. In addition, net assets reflected on the balance sheets of our Russian, Canadian and United Kingdom subsidiaries are booked in foreign currencies and are subject to currency fluctuations. Consequently, significant foreign currency fluctuations could adversely impact our results of operations. Foreign sales are subject to special risks inherent in doing business outside of the U.S., including the risk of war, terrorist activities, civil disturbances, embargo and government activities and foreign attitudes about conducting business activities with the U.S., all of which may disrupt markets. A portion of our manufacturing is conducted through our subsidiary OYO-GEO Impulse, which is based in Ufa, Bashkortostan, Russia. Our business could be directly affected by political and economic conditions in Bashkortostan and in Russia generally. Boycotts, protests, governmental sanctions and other actions in the region could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. The risk of doing business in Russia and other economically or politically volatile areas could adversely affect our operations and earnings. Foreign sales are also generally subject to the risk of compliance with additional laws, including tariff regulations and import and export restrictions. Sales in certain foreign countries require prior United States government approval in the form of an export license. We cannot assure you that we will not experience difficulties in connection with future foreign sales. Also due to foreign laws and restrictions, should we experience substantial growth in certain foreign markets, for example in Russia, we may not be able to transfer cash balances to the United States to assist with debt servicing or other obligations. We Rely on a Key Supplier for a Significant Portion of Our Dry Thermal Film While we currently manufacture dry thermal film, we also purchase a large quantity of dry thermal film from a distributor. Except for the film produced by us and sold to us by this distributor, we know of no other source for dry thermal film that performs well in our thermal imaging equipment. If we are unable to economically manufacture dry thermal film internally or our distributor were to discontinue supplying dry thermal film or were unable to supply dry thermal film in sufficient quantities to meet our requirements, our ability to compete in the thermal imaging marketplace could be impaired, which could adversely affect our financial performance. We Have Been Subject to Control by a Principal Stockholder In August 2005, our single largest stockholder, OYO Corporation, a Japanese corporation, through its wholly owned subsidiary, OYO Corporation U.S.A., sold 1,400,000 shares of our common stock in a secondary offering. During fiscal year 2006, pursuant to a privately negotiated transaction, OYO Corporation U.S.A sold 300,000 shares to a former director who in turn sold the shares to non-affiliates. At September 30, 2006, OYO Corporation owned indirectly in the aggregate approximately 20.1% of our common stock. Accordingly, OYO Corporation, through its wholly owned subsidiary OYO Corporation U.S.A., is able to exercise substantial influence over our management, operations and affairs. In addition, we currently have, and may continue to have, a variety of contractual relationships with OYO Corporation and its affiliates. These relationships could further enable OYO Corporation to indirectly exert substantial influence on our operations. Our Success Depends Upon a Limited Number of Key Personnel Our success depends on attracting and retaining highly skilled professionals. A number of our employees are highly skilled engineers and other professionals. In addition, our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of the members of our senior management. If we fail to continue to attract and retain such professionals, our ability to compete in the industry could be adversely affected. 11 Index to Financial Statements A General Downturn in the Economy in Future Periods May Adversely Affect Our Business A general downturn in the economy in future periods could adversely affect our business in ways that we cannot predict. Any economic downturn may adversely affect the demand for oil and gas generally or cause volatility in oil and gas commodity prices and, therefore, adversely affect the demand for our services to the oil and gas industry and related service and equipment. It could also adversely affect the demand for consumer products, which could in turn adversely affect our thermal solutions business. To the extent these factors adversely affect other seismic companies in the industry, there could be an oversupply of products and services and downward pressure on pricing for seismic products and services, which could adversely affect us. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 In response to several high profile cases of accounting irregularities, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the “Act,” was enacted into law on July 30, 2002. Under current legislation, we are required to comply with the annual requirements of Section 404 of the Act with respect to our internal controls over financial reporting effective for our fiscal year ended September 30, 2006. The Act, and rules promulgated thereunder, as well as NASDAQ listing standards addressing corporate governance issues, endeavor to provide greater accountability and promote investor confidence by imposing specific corporate governance requirements, by requiring more stringent controls and certifications by corporate management and by ultimately imposing new auditor attestations. The Act and NASDAQ rules affect how audit committees, corporate management and auditors of publicly traded companies carry out their respective responsibilities and interact with each other and mandate composition of audit committees by independent directors. The Act has resulted in higher expenses for publicly traded companies, including us, as a result of higher audit and review fees, higher legal fees, higher director fees and higher internal costs to document, test and potentially remediate internal control deficiencies. The Act, together with the financial scandals and difficult economic environment of recent years, has also led to substantially increased premiums for director and officer liability insurance. These increased expenses affect smaller public companies, like us, disproportionately from their effects on companies with larger revenue and operating income bases with which to absorb such increased costs. With respect to the internal controls requirement flowing from the Act, we have devoted substantial efforts and incurred significant expenses in fiscal years 2005 and 2006 in documenting, testing and remediating potential deficiencies in our internal controls system. We have added internal resources and hired outside experts to help us with respect to these matters. We expect to incur substantial expenses in the future to maintain and audit our internal control documentation and procedures. 