Risk Factors Commodity Price Levels May Affect Demand for Our Products Demand for many of our products depends primarily on the level of worldwide oil and gas exploration activity. That activity, in turn, depends primarily on prevailing oil and gas prices and availability of seismic data. During periods of improved energy commodity prices, the capital spending budgets of oil and natural gas operators tend to expand, which results in increased demand for our products. Conversely, in periods when these energy commodity prices deteriorate, the demand for our products generally weakens. Historically, the markets for oil and gas have been volatile. During the last 18 months, there has been substantial volatility and a decline in oil and natural gas prices, which are subject to wide fluctuation in response to changes in the supply of and demand for oil and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. These factors include the level of consumer demand, weather conditions, domestic and foreign governmental regulations, price and availability of alternative fuels, political conditions and hostilities in the Middle East and other significant oil-producing regions, increases and decreases in foreign supply of oil and gas, prices of foreign imports and overall economic conditions. Any unexpected material changes in oil and gas prices or other market trends that adversely impact seismic exploration activity would likely affect the demand for our products and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and liquidity. Our New Products May Not Achieve Market Acceptance Management’s outlook and assumptions are based on various macro-economic factors and internal assessments, and actual market conditions could vary materially from those assumed. In recent years, we have incurred significant expenditures to fund our research and development efforts, and we intend to continue those expenditures in the future. However, research and development is by its nature speculative, and we cannot assure you that these expenditures will result in the development of new products or services or that any new products and services we have developed recently or may develop in the future will be commercially marketable or profitable to us. In particular, we have incurred substantial expenditures to develop our wireless nodal seismic data acquisition systems, as well as other seismic products for reservoir characterization applications. In addition, we try to use some of our capabilities, particularly our cable manufacturing capabilities, to supply products to new markets. Further, we have incurred substantial expense and expended significant effort to develop our thermal solutions products. We cannot assure you that we will realize our expectations regarding acceptance of and revenues generated by our new products and services in existing or new markets. We May Experience Fluctuations in Quarterly Results of Operations Historically, the rate of new orders for our products has varied substantially from quarter to quarter. Moreover, we typically operate, and expect to continue to operate, on the basis of orders in-hand for our products before we commence substantial manufacturing “runs.” The short-term nature of our order backlog generally does not allow us to predict with any accuracy demand for our products more than approximately three months in advance. Thus, our ability to replenish orders and the completion of orders, particularly large orders for deepwater reservoir characterization projects, can significantly impact our operating results and cash flow for any quarter, and results of operations for any one quarter may not be indicative of results of operations for future quarters. These periodic fluctuations in our operating results could adversely affect our stock price. 7 Index to Financial Statements We Have a Relatively Small Public Float, and Our Stock Price May Be Volatile We have approximately 4.0 million shares outstanding held by non-affiliates. This small float results in a relatively illiquid market for our common stock. Our daily trading volume for the year ended September 30, 2009 averaged approximately 42,000 shares. Our small float and daily trading volumes have in the past caused, and may in the future result in, significant volatility in our stock price. Our Credit Risk Could Increase If Our Customers Face Difficult Economic Circumstances We believe that our allowances for bad debts are adequate in light of known circumstances. However, we cannot assure you that additional amounts attributable to uncollectible receivables and bad debt write-offs will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. Many of our seismic customers are not well capitalized and as a result cannot always pay our invoices when due. We have in the past incurred write-offs in our accounts receivable due to customer credit problems. We have found it necessary from time to time to extend trade credit, including on promissory notes, to long-term customers and others where some risks of non-payment exist. With the recent global financial crisis and a tightening of commercial credit availability, some of our customers relying on credit markets as the source of funds for their capital spending may experience significant liquidity difficulties, which increase those credit risks. An increase in the level of bad debts and any deterioration in our credit risk could adversely affect the price of our stock. Our Industry Is Characterized By Rapid Technological Development and Product Obsolescence Our instruments and equipment in both of our business segments are constantly undergoing rapid technological improvement. Our future success depends on our ability to continue to: • improve our existing product lines, • address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers, • maintain a reputation for technological leadership, • maintain market acceptance of our products, • anticipate changes in technology and industry standards, • respond to technological developments on a timely basis, and • develop new markets for our products and capabilities. Current competitors or new market entrants may develop new technologies, products or standards that could render our products obsolete. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in developing and marketing, on a timely and cost effective basis, product enhancements or new products that respond to technological developments, that are accepted in the marketplace or that comply with new industry standards. We Operate in Highly Competitive Markets The markets for most of our products are highly competitive. Many of our existing and potential competitors have substantially greater marketing, financial and technical resources than we do. Additionally, at least two competitors in our seismic business segment currently offer a broader range of instruments and equipment for sale than we do. Further, certain of our competitors offer financing arrangements to customers on terms that we may not be able to match. In addition, new competitors may enter the market and competition could intensify. As to our thermal solutions products, we compete with other printing solutions, including inkjet and laser printing technologies, many of which are provided by large companies with significant resources. We cannot assure you that sales of our products will continue at current volumes or prices if current competitors or new market entrants introduce new products with better features, performance, price or other characteristics than our products. Competitive pressures or other factors may also result in significant price competition that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 8 Index to Financial Statements We Have a Limited Market for Our Seismic Products In our seismic business segment, we market our traditional products to seismic service contractors and to large, independent and government-owned oil and gas companies. We estimate that, based on published industry sources, fewer than 50 seismic contracting companies are currently operating worldwide (excluding those operating in Russia and the former Soviet Union, India, the People’s Republic of China and certain Eastern European countries, where seismic data acquisition activity is difficult to verify). We estimate that fewer than 20 seismic contractors are engaged in marine seismic exploration. Due to these market factors, a relatively small number of customers, some of whom are experiencing financial difficulties, have accounted for most of our sales. From time to time these seismic contractors have sought to vertically integrate and acquire our competitors, which has influenced their supplier decisions before and after such transactions. The loss of a small number of these customers could materially and adversely impact sales of our seismic products. We Cannot Be Certain of the Effectiveness of Patent Protection We hold and from time to time apply for certain patents relating to some of our seismic data acquisition and other products. We also own several patents which relate to the development of dry thermal film. We cannot assure you that our patents will prove enforceable or free of challenge, that any patents will be issued for which we have applied or that competitors will not develop functionally similar technology outside the protection of any patents we have or may obtain. Our Foreign Subsidiaries and Foreign Marketing Efforts Face Additional Risks and Difficulties Based on customer billing data, net sales outside the United States accounted for approximately 56.7% of our net sales during fiscal year 2009; however, we believe the percentage of sales outside the United States is much higher as many of our products are first delivered to a domestic location and ultimately shipped to a foreign location. We again expect net sales outside of the United States to represent a substantial portion of our net sales for fiscal year 2010 and subsequent years. Substantially all of our sales from the United States are made in U.S. dollars, though from time to time we may make sales in foreign currencies. As a result, we may be subject to foreign currency fluctuations on our sales. In addition, net assets reflected on the balance sheets of our Russian, Canadian and United Kingdom subsidiaries are booked in foreign currencies and are subject to currency fluctuations. Consequently, significant foreign currency fluctuations could adversely impact our results of operations. Foreign sales are subject to special risks inherent in doing business outside of the United States, including the risk of war, terrorist activities, civil disturbances, embargo and government activities and foreign attitudes about conducting business activities with the United States, all of which may disrupt markets. A portion of our manufacturing is conducted through our subsidiary OYO-GEO Impulse, which is based in the Russian Federation. Our business could be directly affected by political and economic conditions in the Russian Federation. Boycotts, protests, governmental sanctions and other actions in the region could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. The risk of doing business in the Russian Federation and other economically or politically volatile areas could adversely affect our operations and earnings. Foreign sales are also generally subject to the risk of compliance with additional laws, including tariff regulations and import and export restrictions. Sales in certain foreign countries require prior U.S. government approval in the form of an export license. We cannot assure you that we will not experience difficulties in connection with future foreign sales. Also due to foreign laws and restrictions, should we experience substantial growth in certain foreign markets, for example in the Russian Federation, we may not be able to transfer cash balances to the United States to assist with debt servicing or other obligations. Our subsidiaries in the Russian Federation and in Canada together reported operating losses of $3.3 million in fiscal year 2009 primarily due to difficult seismic market conditions. These market conditions are influenced by macro-economic conditions such as the world-wide economic crisis, credit availability, crude oil and natural 9 Index to Financial Statements gas commodity price volatility and other factors impacting world-wide energy exploration activities. In addition, other factors contributed to these difficult conditions such as high tax regimes, the over-supply of natural gas as recently seen in North America, intense competitive pricing pressures, and reduced demand by our Houston-based operations for products manufactured by our Russian subsidiary. We cannot assure you that these conditions will improve in the near term or that these subsidiaries will not experience these difficult market conditions again in the future, and these subsidiaries may generate future operating losses, asset impairments charges, or closure if we are unable to stabilize their operations. Unfavorable Currency Exchange Rate Fluctuations Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations The reporting currency for our financial statements is the U.S. dollar. However, certain of our subsidiaries are located in countries other than the United States. The assets, liabilities, revenues and costs of these foreign subsidiaries are denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars. To prepare our consolidated financial statements, we must translate those assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars at then-applicable exchange rates. Consequently, increases and decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar versus these other currencies will affect the amount of these items in our consolidated financial statements, even if their value has not changed in their original currency. These translations could result in significant changes to our results of operations from period to period. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2009, approximately 10.0% of our consolidated revenues related to the operations of our foreign subsidiaries. We Rely on a Key Supplier for a Significant Portion of Our Dry Thermal Film While we currently manufacture dry thermal film, we also purchase a large quantity of dry thermal film from a distributor located in the United States. Except for the film produced by us and sold to us by this distributor, we know of no other source for dry thermal film that performs well in our thermal imaging equipment. If we are unable to economically manufacture dry thermal film internally or our distributor were to discontinue supplying dry thermal film or were unable to supply dry thermal film in sufficient quantities to meet our requirements, our ability to compete in the thermal imaging marketplace could be impaired, which could adversely affect our financial performance. We Have Been Subject to Control by a Principal Stockholder At September 30, 2009, OYO Corporation owned indirectly in the aggregate approximately 21.5% of our common stock. Accordingly, OYO Corporation, through its wholly owned subsidiary OYO Corporation U.S.A., is able to exercise substantial influence over our management, operations and affairs. In addition, we currently have, and may continue to have, a variety of contractual relationships with OYO Corporation and its affiliates. These relationships could further enable OYO Corporation to indirectly exert substantial influence on our operations. Our Success Depends Upon a Limited Number of Key Personnel Our success depends on attracting and retaining highly skilled professionals. A number of our employees are highly skilled engineers and other professionals. In addition, our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of the members of our senior management. If we fail to continue to attract and retain such professionals, our ability to compete in the industry could be adversely affected. A General Downturn in the Economy in Future Periods May Adversely Affect Our Business The current downturn in the economy, and any economic slowdown in future periods, could adversely affect our business in ways that we cannot predict. During times of economic slowdown, our customers may reduce their capital expenditures and defer or cancel pending projects. Such developments occur even among customers 10 Index to Financial Statements that are not experiencing financial difficulties. Any economic downturn may adversely affect the demand for oil and gas generally or cause volatility in oil and gas commodity prices and, therefore, adversely affect the demand for our services to the oil and gas industry and related service and equipment. It could also adversely affect the demand for consumer products, which could in turn adversely affect our thermal solutions business. To the extent these factors adversely affect other seismic companies in the industry, there could be an oversupply of products and services and downward pressure on pricing for seismic products and services, which could adversely affect us. Additionally, bankruptcies or financial difficulties among our customers could reduce our cash flows and adversely impact our liquidity and profitability. Global Capital and Credit Market Issues Could Negatively Affect Our Liquidity and Increase Our Costs of Borrowing United States and global credit markets have recently experienced significant dislocations and liquidity disruptions which have caused the spreads on prospective debt refinancings to widen considerably. These circumstances materially impacted liquidity in the debt markets, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive, and in certain cases have resulted in the unavailability of certain types of debt financing. Events affecting the credit markets have also had an adverse effect on other financial markets in the United States, which may make it more difficult or costly in the future for us to borrow additional funds. Our business could also be negatively impacted if our suppliers or customers experience disruptions resulting from tighter capital and credit markets or a slowdown in the general economy. Any of these risks could increase our interest expense, or impair our ability to fund our operations or expand our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 