ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following important factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and presented elsewhere by us from time to time. We may be unable to integrate our operations successfully and realize all of the anticipated benefits of the mergers with CipherTrust and CyberGuard. Our mergers with CipherTrust and CyberGuard involve the integration of companies that previously have operated independently, which is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. The difficulties of combining the companies’ operations include, among other things: • Coordinating geographically disparate organizations, systems and facilities; • Integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds; • Consolidating corporate and administrative functions; • Consolidating research and development, and manufacturing operations; • Coordinating sales and marketing functions; • Retaining key employees; and • Preserving the research and development, collaboration, distribution, marketing, promotion and other important relationships of the companies. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of the combined company’s business and the loss of key personnel. The diversion of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the merger and the integration of the two companies’ operations could harm the business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects of the combined company after the mergers. We believe that the operation integration of CyberGuard is essentially complete. However, as of December 31, 2006, we have only twelve months of combined operations, and we may, in the future, encounter again any or all of the difficulties in operation integration we have faced in the period since the merger with CyberGuard, particularly due to the ongoing integration of CipherTrust. We expect the integration of CipherTrust to be completed in 2007. We have experienced operating losses in the past and may experience operating losses in the future. In 2006 we incurred operating profit of $769,000 in the quarter ended March 31, 2006 and operating losses of $2.7 million, $6.3 million, and $9.5 million in the quarters ended June 30, 2006, September 30, 2006, and December 31, 2006, respectively. In 2005 we had continuing operating profit, although we have incurred operating losses in the past. If we are unable to attain operating profits in the future, our stock price may decline, which could cause you to lose part or all of your investment. In 2006 we were cash flow positive, however, we have experienced negative cash flow in the past and may experience negative cash flow in the future. If, at that time, sources of financing are not available, we may not have sufficient cash to satisfy working capital requirements. We believe that we have sufficient financial resources to satisfy our working capital requirements for at least the next twelve months. We may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain an additional credit facility at that time or sooner if our plans change or if we expend cash sooner than anticipated. Any additional financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Our failure to obtain financing at that time could result in our insolvency and the loss to investors of their entire investment in our common stock. If we fail to meet the borrowing requirements under our credit agreement, we may be unable to obtain necessary short-term financing and if we default on a secured loan, material assets of ours could be subject to forfeiture. We currently are party to a senior secured credit facility with a syndicate of banks led by Citigroup and UBS Investment Bank which provides us with a $90.0 million term loan facility, a $20.0 million revolving 17 Table of Contents credit facility and a swingline loan sub-facility. As of December 31, 2006, we had $88.0 million of outstanding indebtedness. Of this indebtedness, approximately $28.0 million bears interest at rates that fluctuate with changes in certain prevailing interest rates. An increase in interest rates would have a negative impact on our earnings due to an increase in interest expense. As is typical for credit facilities of this sort, the credit agreement for such credit facility imposes certain restrictions on us, including limitations on additional indebtedness, capital expenditures, restricted payments, the incurrence of liens, transactions with affiliates and sales of assets. In addition, the credit agreement requires us to comply with certain financial covenants, including maintaining leverage and interest coverage ratios and capital expenditure limitations. We can offer no assurances that we will be able to comply with such financial covenants when a loan is needed or continue to comply with such covenants when a loan is outstanding. If we fail to satisfy these covenants or if we are unable to meet the conditions for borrowing under our credit agreement when funds are required, we could be prevented from meeting our payment obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditional and operating results. Further, our obligations under the credit agreement are secured by substantially all of our material assets, including real and personal property, inventory, accounts, intellectual property and other intangibles. If we default under our credit agreement for any reason and are unable to cure the default pursuant to the terms of the credit agreement, our lenders could take possession of any and all of our assets in which they hold a security interest, including intellectual property, and dispose of those assets to the extent necessary to pay off our debts, which could materially harm our business. Our significant stockholders could have significant influence over us. Warburg Pincus beneficially owns 100% of the outstanding shares of Secure Computing Series A Preferred Stock convertible into approximately 5.7 million shares or 7.0% of Secure Computing common stock on a fully diluted basis. The shares of Series A Preferred Stock are convertible into shares of our common stock at the holder’s option, at a rate determined by dividing the aggregate liquidation preference of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock to be converted by $12.75. This liquidation preference, and the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock, accretes at the rate of 5% per year, compounded semi-annually over time. Subject to certain exceptions and limitations, the liquidation preference shall accrete for 54 months from the date of issuance, giving Warburg Pincus approximately 6.7 million shares, or 8.2% of our company on a fully accreted basis. Also, Warburg Pincus holds a warrant to purchase 1,000,000 shares of common stock at an initial per share exercise price of $13.85. Additionally, Warburg Pincus is entitled to nominate a member to our board of directors and the consent of the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock is required for certain corporate actions. Jay Chaudhry, Vice Chairman of the Board and Chief Strategy Officer, beneficially owns 5,252,636 shares of Secure Computing common stock, or 6.4% of Secure Computing common stock on a fully diluted basis. Richard Scott, a member of our Board of Directors, beneficially owns 3,977,431 shares of Secure Computing common stock, or 4.9% of Secure Computing common stock on a fully diluted basis. Accordingly, Warburg Pincus, Jay Chaudhry, and Richard Scott could significantly influence the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the stockholders for approval. The interests of Warburg Pincus, Jay Chaudhry, and Richard Scott may differ from the interests of other stockholders. Holders of our Series A Preferred Stock have rights that are senior to those of our Common Stock. Holders of our Series A Preferred Stock are entitled to receive benefits not available to holders of our common stock. These benefits include, but are not limited to, the following: • beginning July 2010, shares of Series A Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive semi-annual dividends equal to 5.0% of the Series A Preferred Stock liquidation preference per year, which dividend may be paid in cash or added to the Series A Preferred Stock liquidation preference; • each share of Series A Preferred Stock has an initial liquidation preference of $100 and the liquidation preference accretes daily at an annual rate of 5.0%, compounded semi-annually; 18 Table of Contents • upon a change of control of our company, Warburg Pincus may elect to (i) convert the shares of Series A Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock and receive the consideration due to the holders of Common Stock upon conversion, or (ii) cause us to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock for cash at the liquidation preference then in effect; • if a change of control occurs within 5 years of the issuance of the Series A Preferred Stock, the liquidation preference shall be an amount equal to the liquidation preference then in effect plus a premium of (i) 15% if the change of control occurs prior to the first anniversary of the issuance of the Series A Preferred Stock, (ii) 10% if the change of control occurs after the first anniversary of the issuance of the Series A Preferred Stock but prior to the second anniversary of the issuance of the Series A Preferred Stock, (iii) 5% if the change of control occurs after the second anniversary of the issuance of the Series A Preferred Stock but prior to the fourth anniversary of the issuance of the Series A Preferred Stock or (iv) 1% if the change of control occurs after the fourth anniversary of the issuance of the Series A Preferred Stock but prior to the fifth anniversary of the issuance of the Series A Preferred Stock; • holders of Series A Preferred Stock have rights to acquire additional shares of our capital stock or rights to purchase property in the event of certain grants, issuances or sales; • the conversion price of the Series A Preferred Stock, which initially was $13.51 per share, is subject to customary broad-based weighted average anti-dilution adjustments and other customary adjustments upon the issuance of shares of Common Stock below the conversion price, such as the issuance of shares and options to purchase shares in the CipherTrust acquisition, which resulted in an adjustment to the conversion price of the Series A Preferred Stock to $12.75; • the approval of holders of majority of the Series A Preferred Stock is separately required to (i) approve changes to our certificate of incorporation or bylaws that adversely affect Warburg Pincus’s rights, (ii) adopt any stockholder rights plan that would dilute the economic or voting interest of Warburg Pincus, (iii) incur certain debt, distribute assets, pay dividends or repurchase securities, (iv) create or issue any equity security with rights senior to or on parity with the Series A Preferred Stock, (v) increase the size of our board of directors above nine members and (vi) take any action that adversely affects the rights, preferences and privileges of the Series A Preferred Stock; and • for so long as Warburg Pincus and its affiliates owns at least 50% of its shares of Series A Preferred Stock, the holders of Series A Preferred Stock will have the right, voting as a separate class, to appoint one member to our board of directors. The potential increase in sales from our relationships with various vendors of communications, security, and network management products or managed services may be reduced by requirements to provide volume price discounts and other allowances and significant costs incurred in customizing our products. Although we do not intend that such relationships be exclusive, we may be required to enter into an exclusive relationship or forego a significant sales opportunity. To the extent we become dependent on actions by such parties, we could be adversely affected if the parties fail to perform as expected. To minimize our risk, we often set minimum quotas with our customers as a condition of exclusivity. Competition from companies producing enterprise gateway security products could reduce our sales and market share. The market for enterprise gateway security products is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change. We believe that competition in this market is likely to persist and to intensify as a result of increasing demand for security products. Each of our individual products competes with a different group of competitors and products. Because the market for our products is highly competitive, it may be difficult to significantly increase our market share or our market share may actually decline. Our customers’ purchasing decisions are based heavily upon the quality of the security our products provide, the ease of installation and management, the ability to increase the numbers of individuals using our software simultaneously, and the flexibility of our software. If a competitor can offer our customers a better 19 Table of Contents solution in these areas or others and we are unable to rapidly offer a competitive product, we may lose customers. Competitors with greater resources could offer new solutions rapidly and at relatively low costs which could lead to increased price pressure, reduced margins, and a loss of market share. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, marketing, technical, and other competitive resources than we have. Our larger actual and potential competitors may be able to leverage an installed customer base and/or other existing or future enterprise-wide products, adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products than we can. Additionally, we may lose product sales to these competitors because of their greater name recognition and reputation among potential customers. Our future potential competitors could include developers of operating systems or hardware suppliers not currently offering competitive enterprise gateway security products, including Microsoft, Sun Microsystems, Inc., IBM, Computer Associates, and Hewlett Packard. If any of those potential competitors begins to offer enterprise-wide security systems as a component of its hardware, demand for our solutions could decrease. Ultimately, approaches other than ours may dominate the market for enterprise gateway security products. In the future, we may also face competition from our competitors and other parties that develop or acquire enterprise gateway security products based upon approaches that we employ. There are no guarantees that our approach will dominate the market for enterprise gateway security products. While we believe that we do not compete against manufacturers of other classes of security products, such as encryption, due to the complementary functions performed by such other classes, our customers may perceive such other companies as our competitors. Consolidation among competitors may erode our market share. Current and potential competitors have established, or may in the future establish, cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase the ability of their products to address the needs of our prospective customers. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. If this were to occur, it could materially and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. The trend toward multi-function security solutions may result in a consolidation of the market around a smaller number of vendors that are able to provide the necessary breadth of products and services. In the event that we are unable to internally develop all of the products needed for a complete, secure e-business solution, we may need to acquire such technology or be acquired by a larger entity. However, there can be no assurance that, in the event that we are not able to internally develop all of the products needed for an enterprise-wide security solution, we will be able to acquire or merge with other entities on terms favorable to us and our stockholders. The pricing policies of our competitors may impact the overall demand for our products and services and therefore, impacting our profitability. Some of our competitors are capable of operating at significant losses for extended periods of time, enabling them to sell their products and services at a lower price. If we do not maintain competitive pricing, the demand for our products and/or services, as well as our market share, may decline, having an adverse effect on our business. From time to time, in responding to competitive pressures we lower the price of our products and services. When this happens, if we are unable to reduce our component costs or improve operating efficiencies, our margins could be adversely affected. Other vendors may include products similar to ours in their hardware or software and render our products obsolete. In the future, vendors of hardware and of operating systems or other software may continue to enhance their products or bundle separate products to include functions that are currently provided primarily by enterprise gateway security software. If network security functions become standard features of computer hardware or of operating system software or other software, our products may become obsolete and unmarketable, particularly if the quality of these security features is comparable to that of our products. Furthermore, even if the enterprise gateway security and/or management functions provided as standard features 20 Table of Contents by hardware providers or operating systems or other software is more limited than that of our products, our customers might accept this limited functionality in lieu of purchasing additional software. Sales of our products would suffer materially if we were then unable to develop new enterprise gateway security and management products to further enhance operating systems or other software and to replace any obsolete products. If an OEM customer reduces or delays purchases, our revenue may decline and/or our business could be adversely affected. We currently have formed relationships with several OEMs including Cisco, Blue Coat, McAfee, Computer Associates, F5 Networks, Inc. and Network Appliance. If we fail to sell to such OEMs in the quantities expected, or if any OEM terminates our relationship, this could adversely affect our reputation, the perception of our products and technology in the marketplace and the growth of our business, and your investment in our common stock may decline in value. Technology in the enterprise gateway security market is changing rapidly, and if we fail to develop new products that are well accepted, our market share will erode. To compete successfully, we must enhance our existing products and develop and introduce new products in a timely manner. Our net sales and operating results could be materially affected if we fail to introduce new products on a timely basis. The rate of new enterprise gateway security product introductions is substantial and security products have relatively short product life cycles. Our customer requirements and preferences change rapidly. Our net sales and operating results will be materially affected if the market adopts, as industry standards, solutions other than those we employ. Denial of our patent applications or invalidation or circumvention of our patents may weaken our ability to compete in the enterprise gateway security market. While we believe that our pending applications relate to patentable devices or concepts, there can be no assurances that any pending or future patent applications will be granted. There is also the risk that a current or future patent, regardless of whether we are an owner or a licensee of such patent, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. In addition, there are no assurances that the rights granted under a patent or under licensing agreements will provide competitive advantages to us. If another party alleges that we infringe its patents or proprietary rights, we may incur substantial litigation costs. Other than a claim made by Finjan Software Ltd., we are not aware of any third party claims that we or our products have infringed a patent or other proprietary rights. However, the computer technology market is characterized by frequent and substantial intellectual property litigation. Intellectual property litigation is complex and expensive, and the outcome of such litigation is difficult to predict. In the event that a third party were to make a claim of infringement against us, we could be required to devote substantial resources and management time to the defense of such claim, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Disclosure of our trade secrets or proprietary information may undermine our competitive advantages. There can be no assurances that the confidentiality agreements protecting our trade secrets and proprietary expertise will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known to or independently developed by competitors. If the use of public switched networks such as the Internet does not continue to grow, our market and ability to sell our products and services may be limited. Our sales also depend upon a robust industry and infrastructure for providing access to public switched networks, such as the Internet. If the infrastructure or complementary products necessary to take these networks into viable commercial marketplaces are not developed or, if developed, these networks do not become and continue to be viable commercial marketplaces, our net sales and operating results could suffer. Our reliance on third party manufacturers of hardware components and subassemblies that are used in our appliances and SafeWord token product lines could cause a delay in our ability to fill orders. We currently purchase the hardware components for our appliance and Safeword token product lines from several major suppliers. Delays in receiving components would harm our ability to deliver our products on a timely basis and net sales and operating results could suffer. 21 Table of Contents Our product lines are not diversified beyond providing enterprise gateway security solutions to our customers, and any drop in the demand for enterprise gateway security products would materially harm our business. Substantially all of our revenue comes from sales of enterprise gateway security products and related services. We expect this will continue for the foreseeable future. As a result, if for any reason our sales of these products and services are impeded, our net sales and operating results will be significantly reduced. Our stock price is highly volatile, which may cause our investors to lose money and may impair our ability to raise money, if necessary. The price of our common stock, like that of many technology companies, has fluctuated widely. During 2006, our stock price ranged from a per share high of $15.29 to a low of $4.82. Fluctuation in our stock price may cause our investors to lose money and impair our ability to raise additional capital, if necessary. Factors that may affect stock price volatility include: • Unexpected fluctuations in operating results; • Our competitors or us announcing technological innovations or new products; • General economic conditions and weaknesses in geographic regions of the world; • Threat of terrorist attacks or acts of war in the U.S. or abroad; • Developments with respect to our patents or other proprietary rights or those of our competitors; • Our ability to successfully execute our business plan and compete in the enterprise gateway security industry; • Relatively low trading volume; • Product failures; and • Analyst reports and media stories. If our products fail to function properly or are not properly designed, our reputation may be harmed, and customers may make product liability and warranty claims against us. Our customers rely on our enterprise gateway security products to prevent unauthorized access to their networks and data transmissions. These customers include major financial institutions, defense-related government agencies protecting national security information, and other large organizations. These customers use our products to protect confidential business information with commercial value far in excess of our net worth. Therefore, if our products malfunction or are not properly designed, we could face warranty and other legal claims, which may exceed our ability to pay. We seek to reduce the risk of these losses by attempting to negotiate warranty disclaimers and liability limitation clauses in our sales agreements. However, these measures may ultimately prove ineffective in limiting our liability for damages. In addition to any monetary liability for the failure of our products, an actual or perceived breach of network or data security at one of our customers could harm the market’s perception of our products and our business. The harm could occur regardless of whether that breach is attributable to our products. We also face the more general risk of bugs and other errors in our software. Software products often contain undetected errors or bugs when first introduced or as new versions are released, and software products or media may contain undetected viruses. Errors or bugs may also be present in software that we license from third parties and incorporate into our products. Errors, bugs, or viruses in our products may result in loss of or delay in market acceptance, recalls of hardware products incorporating the software, or loss of data. Our net sales and operating results could be materially reduced if we experience delays or difficulties with new product introductions or product enhancements. If we lose a significant customer, we will realize smaller profits. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of customers. For example, our top five customers made up 10% of our sales in 2006. If we lose any of these customers or if our revenues from any of these customers are reduced, and we fail to replace the customer or fail to increase sales from other customers, we will incur smaller profits. 22 Table of Contents If we fail to collect amounts due from our customers on a timely basis, our cash flow and operating results may suffer. Because the timing of our revenues is difficult to predict and our expenses are often difficult to reduce in the short run, management of our cash flow is very important to us. Like most companies, we anticipate that a portion of the amounts owed to us will never be paid. However, if our actual collection of amounts owed to us is less than we have estimated, we will have less cash to fund our operations than we anticipated, and our financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, collection of amounts due us from sales to international customers generally takes longer than for other sales. Therefore, if our sales to international customers increase as a percentage of our total revenue, the average number of days it takes for us to collect amounts due from our customers may increase. If there is an increase in the time required for us to collect amounts due us, we will have less cash to fund our operations than we anticipated. This in turn could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. We have taken and may from time to time take various forms of action to manage the amounts due us from customers and grant customer discounts in exchange for earlier payment. Quarterly net sales and operating results depend on the volume and timing of orders received, which may be affected by large individual transactions and which sometimes are difficult to predict. Our quarterly operating results may vary significantly depending on a number of other factors, including: • The timing of the introduction or enhancement of products by us or our competitors; • The size, timing, and shipment of individual orders; • Market acceptance of new products; • Changes in our operating expenses; • Personnel departures and new hires and the rate at which new personnel become productive; • Mix of products sold; • Changes in product pricing; • Development of our direct and indirect distribution channels; • Costs incurred when anticipated sales do not occur; and • General economic conditions. Sales of our products generally involve a significant commitment of capital by customers, with the attendant delays frequently associated with large capital expenditures. For these and other reasons, the sales cycle for our products is typically lengthy and subject to a number of significant risks over which we have little or no control. We are often required to ship products shortly after we receive orders, and consequently, order backlog, if any, at the beginning of any period has in the past represented only a small portion, if any, of that period’s expected revenue. As a result, our product sales in any period substantially depends on orders booked and shipped in that period. We typically plan our production and inventory levels based on internal forecasts of customer demand, which are highly unpredictable and can fluctuate substantially. If customer demand falls below anticipated levels, it could seriously harm our operating results. In addition, our operating expenses are based on anticipated revenue levels, and a high percentage of our expenses are generally fixed in the short term. Based on these factors, a small fluctuation in the timing of sales can cause operating results to vary significantly from period to period. The Internet may become subject to increased regulation by government agencies. Due to the increasing popularity and use of the Internet, it is possible that a number of laws and regulations may be adopted with respect to the Internet, covering issues such as user privacy, pricing and characteristics, and quality of products 23 Table of Contents and services. In addition, the adoption of laws or regulations may slow the growth of the Internet, which could in turn decrease the demand for our products and increase our cost of doing business or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents, share rights agreement, and Delaware law could discourage a takeover or future financing. The terms of our certificate of incorporation and share rights agreement permit our Board of Directors to issue up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock and determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges, and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. The Board may authorize the issuance of additional preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could materially weaken the voting power or other rights of the holders of our common stock. The issuance of preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Further, provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws, such as a classified board and limitations on the ability of stockholders to call special meetings, and provisions of our share rights agreement could delay or make more difficult a merger, tender offer, proxy contest, or other takeover attempts. The ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel to develop our products and manage our business is extremely important, and our failure to do so could harm our business. We believe our success depends to a large extent upon a number of key technical and management employees. We may be unable to achieve our sales and operating performance objectives unless we can attract and retain technically qualified and highly skilled engineers and sales, consulting, technical, financial, operations, marketing, and management personnel. These personnel are particularly important to our research and development efforts and, as such, we employ a large number of technical personnel holding advanced degrees and special professional certification. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and we expect it to remain so for the foreseeable future. We may not be successful in retaining our existing key personnel and in attracting and retaining the personnel we require. Our operating results and our ability to successfully execute our business plan will be adversely affected if we fail to retain and increase our key employee population. Our international operations subject us to risks related to doing business in foreign countries. International sales are a substantial portion of our business. Although all of our sales are payable in U.S. dollars as of December 31, 2006, several factors could make it difficult for customers from foreign countries to purchase our products and services or pay us for obligations already incurred. Such factors include: • Severe economic decline in one of our major foreign markets; and • Substantial decline in the exchange rate for foreign currencies with respect to the U.S. dollar. A decline in our international sales or collections of amounts due us from customers could materially affect our operations and financial conditions. For fiscal year 2006, 39% of our total revenue came from international sales compared to 38% in 2005. A very large drop in our sales or collections of amounts due us in these specific countries as a result of recession or other economic or political disturbances would likely harm our net sales and operating results. In addition, we face a number of general risks inherent in doing business in international markets including, among others: • Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • Tariffs and other trade barriers; • Legal uncertainty regarding liability; • Threat of terrorist attacks or acts of war; 24 Table of Contents • Political instability; • Potentially greater difficulty in collecting amounts due us; • Longer periods of time to collect amounts due us; and • A higher rate of piracy of our products in countries with a high incidence of software piracy. 