Item 1A. Risk Factors Liquidity. As of December 31, 2006, we had a cash balance of $227,000, accounts receivable of $3.0 million and negative working capital. In March 2007, we renegotiated our line of credit which makes available through March 2008, a $2.5 million line of credit. At December 31, 2006, there were no borrowings on the line of credit. In January 2007, we received $2.8 million in cash for the sale of the TK Soda Assets to Kemper. Although we believe that our cash flow from operating activities, cash provided from the sale of the TK Soda Assets, tighter management of capital spending and cash management in combination with various financing options, including the line of credit and capital asset leasing, should provide adequate working capital to meet our needs, there is no guarantee that these measures will be sufficient to meet our cash operating and investing needs. Beverage Competition. The domestic market in which our craft beers compete is highly competitive for many reasons, including the continuing proliferation of new beers and brew-pubs, efforts by regional craft brewers to expand their distribution, the introduction of fuller-flavored products by certain major national brewers, and underutilized craft brewing capacity. Additionally, a recent change in Washington State law will make it easier for out-of-state brewers to ship directly to retailers rather than shipping through distributors, which could increase competition and create pricing pressure for companies such as ours that use traditional distribution channels. We anticipate that intensifying competition from craft beer and imported beer producers and excess capacity in the craft beer segment may adversely impact our operating margins. In addition, the larger national brewers have developed brands to compete directly with craft beers. These national competitors have advantages such as lower production costs, larger marketing budgets, greater financial and other resources and more developed and extensive distribution networks than we do. There can be no assurance that we will be able to grow our volumes or be able to maintain our selling prices in existing markets or as we enter new markets. Alehouse Restaurant Competition. The restaurant industry is highly competitive. There are a substantial number of restaurant operations that compete directly and indirectly with us, many of which have significantly greater financial resources, higher revenues and greater economies of scale. The restaurant business is often affected by changes in consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns, national and regional economic, demographic trends, the cost and availability of raw materials, labor and energy, purchasing power, governmental regulations and 11 Table of Contents local competitive factors. Any change in these or other related factors could adversely affect our restaurant operations. Access to Markets. Most of our independent distributors are also distributors of national brewers. Any actions by national brewers may have the effect of reducing distribution options for our products. In addition, many independent distributors are moving towards consolidation to improve profit margins. Although we have not yet been negatively impacted by such events, it is possible that we could effectively be denied access to a market or markets by the tactics of the national brewers and further consolidation of independent distributors. In the states that comprise the majority of our sales, we have the option to distribute our products directly to retailers. However, there is no assurance that self-distribution can be done in an economic manner over large territories. Government Regulations, Policies and Audits. We could be adversely affected by changes in and compliance with governmental policies and regulations with respect to our products, including the adoption by the TTB of more restrictive application of the excise tax rules. Our business is highly regulated at the federal, state and local levels, and our brewery and restaurant operations require various licenses, permits and approvals. The loss or revocation of any existing licenses, permits or approvals, or the failure to obtain any additional licenses, permits or approvals in new jurisdictions where we intend to do business could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. Further, federal regulations prohibit, among other things, the payment of slotting allowances to retailers for beer products. These regulations have the effect of preventing competitors with greater financial resources from excluding smaller brewers from retailers. If these regulations were repealed or substantially modified, there would likely be a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Retention of Management Personnel. Our success is dependent in large part on the continued employment and performance of key executive and managerial personnel and our ability to attract and retain additional highly qualified personnel. We compete for key personnel with other companies. Our ability to maintain and expand our business may be impaired if we are unable to retain our current key personnel, hire or retain other qualified personnel in the future, or if our key personnel decide to join a competitor or otherwise compete with us. Stock Price Volatility. The trading price of our common stock may be highly volatile. Our common stock price could be subject to fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including: • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • conditions or trends in the craft beer, specialty beer or specialty restaurant markets; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant gains or losses of distributors, or new products, or other developments; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • additions or departures of key personnel; • failure by us to maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting which could result in our inability to accurately report our financial results; • sales of a large number of shares of our common stock; • adverse litigation; • unfavorable legislative or regulatory decisions; and • general market conditions. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the target of securities class action litigation. We may become the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert management attention, which could seriously harm our business. 12 Table of Contents Selling Prices. Although historically we have been able to pass on price increases, the future selling prices we charge for our craft beer and other specialty beverages may decrease from historical levels due to increasing competitive pressures, which may adversely affect our revenues. We have and will continue to participate in price promotions with our wholesalers to their retail customers. Management believes that the number and frequency of our promotions may increase during 2007. Increased costs associated with these promotions may adversely affect our operating results. Variability of Margins and Operating Results. We anticipate that our operating margins will fluctuate and may decline as a result of many factors, including (i) lower sales volumes and selling prices, (ii) increased depreciation and other fixed and semi-fixed operating costs as a percent of sales during periods when our breweries are producing below designed capacity, (iii) increased raw material and packaging costs, (iv) changes in product mix and packaging, (v) increased transportation costs, (vi) increased sales from alehouse operations which may have a lower gross margin (as a percentage of net sales) than beer sales, and (vii) increased selling and promotional costs incurred as we protect our business in existing markets. We pay federal excise taxes on all beer sales and pay state excise taxes on beer sales occurring in various states at various tax rates. Increases in federal or state excise taxes and the impact of an increasing average federal excise tax rate as production increases may also cause a decline in our gross margins. Seasonality. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Historically, sales have been higher during the summer months. As a result, our quarterly and annual operating results and comparable sales may fluctuate significantly as a result of seasonality and other factors. Accordingly, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any year and comparable sales for any particular future period may decrease. Public Safety and Health. Our breweries and alehouses are subject to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, as well as other state laws and other regulations. We are also subject to “dram shop” laws in most states where we currently operate. These laws generally provide a person injured by an intoxicated person the right to recover damages from an establishment which wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to such person. We carry liquor liability coverage as part of our existing comprehensive general liability insurance, which we believe is consistent with coverage carried by other entities in the restaurant industry. However, a judgment against us under a “dram shop” statute in excess of our liability coverage could have a material adverse effect on us. Additionally, multi-unit foodservice operations such as ours can also be substantially affected by adverse publicity resulting from food quality, illness, injury, health concerns or operating issues stemming from a single restaurant. We attempt to manage these factors, but the occurrence of any one of these factors could cause the entire Company, beverage and alehouse operations, to be adversely affected. Inclement Weather. Inclement weather conditions can impact customer traffic at our alehouses and cause the temporary underutilization of our seating capacity and adversely affect our operating results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 