ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information included in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating the Company’s business and future prospects. The risk factors described below are not necessarily exhaustive and you are encouraged to perform your own investigation with respect to the Company and its business. You should also read the other information included in this Form 10-K, including the financial statements and related notes. 21 The Company’s indebtedness, the current global recession, and disruption in the domestic and global financial markets could have an adverse effect on the Company’s operating results and financial condition. As of December 31, 2008, the outstanding principal amount of the Company’s indebtedness to Sovereign was approximately $9.9 million. This level of indebtedness, coupled with the widely reported domestic and global recession, the associated low levels of energy prices, and the unprecedented levels of disruption and continuing relative illiquidity in the credit markets may, if continued for an extended period, have several important and adverse consequences on the Company’s business and operations. For example, any one or more of these factors could (i) make it difficult for the Company to service or refinance its existing indebtedness; (ii) increase our vulnerability to additional adverse changes in economic and industry conditions; (iii) require the Company to dedicate a substantial portion or all of our cash flow from operations and proceeds of any debt or equity issuances or asset sales to pay or provide for our indebtedness; (iv) limit our ability to respond to changes in our businesses and the markets in which we operate; (v) place us at a disadvantage to our competitors that are not as highly leveraged; or (vi) limit our ability to borrow money or raise equity to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, investments, general corporate activity or other financing needs. The Company continues to closely monitor the recent disruption in the global financial and credit markets, as well as the recent significant decline in the market prices for oil and natural gas. As these events unfold, the Company will continue to evaluate and respond to any impact on Company operations. The Company has and will continue to adjust and reduce its drilling plans and capital expenditures as necessary. However, external financing in the capital markets is currently not available, and without adequate capital resources, the Company’s drilling and other activities may be limited and the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. Additionally, in light of the current distressed state of the credit markets and the pricing for oil and natural gas, our ability to enter into future beneficial relationships with third parties for our exploration and production activities may be limited, and as a result, may have an adverse effect on our current operational strategy and related business initiatives. Agreements governing the Company’s indebtedness may limit the Company’s ability to execute capital spending or to respond to other initiatives or opportunities as they may arise. Because the availability of borrowings by the Company under the terms of the Company’s amended and restated credit facility with Sovereign is subject to an upper limit of the borrowing base as determined by the lender’s calculated estimated future cash flows from the Company’s oil and natural gas reserves, the Company expects that the recent sharp decline in the pricing for these commodities, if continued for any extended period, would very likely result in a reduction in the Company’s borrowing base. A reduction in the Company’s borrowing base could be significant and as a result, would not only reduce the capital available to the Company but may also require repayment of principal to the lender under the terms of the facility. 22 Additionally, the terms of the Company’s amended and restated credit facility with Sovereign restricts the Company’s ability to incur additional debt. The credit facility contains covenants and other restrictions customary for oil and gas borrowing base credit facilities, including limitations on debt, liens, dividends, voluntary redemptions of debt, investments, and asset sales. In addition, the credit facility requires that the Company maintain compliance with certain financial tests and financial covenants. If future debt financing is not available to the Company when required as a result of limited access to the credit markets or otherwise, or is not available on acceptable terms, the Company may be unable to invest needed capital for drilling and exploration activities, take advantage of business opportunities, respond to competitive pressures or refinance maturing debt, or be forced to sell some of the Company’s assets on an untimely basis or under unfavorable terms, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating results and financial condition. The Company’s Borrowing Base under its Credit Facility may be reduced by Sovereign Bank. The borrowing base under the Company’s revolving credit facility with Sovereign Bank will be determined from time to time by the lender, as specified in the credit facility, consistent with its customary natural gas and crude oil lending practices. Reductions in estimates of the Company’s natural gas and crude oil reserves under the parameters established by the lender could result in a reduction in the Company’s borrowing base, which would reduce the amount of financial resources available under the Company’s revolving credit facility to meet its capital requirements. Such a reduction could be the result of lower commodity prices or production, inability to drill or unfavorable drilling results, changes in natural gas and crude oil reserve engineering, the lenders' inability to agree to an adequate borrowing base or adverse changes in the lenders' practices regarding estimation of reserves. If cash flow from operations or the Company’s borrowing base decrease for any reason, the Company’s ability to undertake exploration and development activities could be adversely affected. As a result, the Company’s ability to replace production may be limited. In addition, if the borrowing base under the Company’s Sovereign Bank revolving credit facility is reduced, it would be required to pay down its borrowings under the revolving credit facility so that outstanding borrowings do not exceed the reduced borrowing base. This could further reduce the cash available to the Company for capital spending and, if the Company did not have sufficient capital to reduce its borrowing level, could cause the Company to default under its revolving credit facility with Sovereign Bank. The Company’s Credit Facility with Sovereign Bank Is Subject to Variable Rates of Interest, Which Could Negatively Impact the Company. 23 Borrowings under the Company’s credit facility with Sovereign Bank of Dallas, Texas (“Sovereign Bank”) are at variable rates of interest and expose the Company to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, the Company’s debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and its net income and cash flows would decrease. The Company’s credit facility agreement contains certain financial covenants based on the Company’s performance. If the Company’s financial performance results in any of these covenants being violated, Sovereign Bank may choose to require repayment of the outstanding borrowings sooner than currently required by the agreement. Declines In Oil or Gas Prices Have and Will Materially Adversely Affect the Company’s Revenues. The Company’s financial condition and results of operations depend in large part upon the prices obtainable for the Company’s oil and natural gas production and the costs of finding, acquiring, developing and producing reserves. As seen in 2008, prices for oil and natural gas are subject to extreme fluctuations in response to changes in supply, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond the Company’s control. These factors include worldwide political instability (especially in the Middle East and other oil-producing regions), the foreign supply of oil and gas, the price of foreign imports, the level of drilling activity, the level of consumer product demand, government regulations and taxes, the price and availability of alternative fuels, speculating activities in the commodities markets and the overall economic environment. During 2008, the price for oil was extremely volatile. In July 2008, the price of oil reached a record high of $147 per barrel and by December 2008 had declined to approximately $35 per barrel. The Company’s operations are substantially adversely impacted as oil prices decline. Lower prices dramatically affect the Company’s revenues from its drilling operations. Further, drilling of new wells, development of the Company’s leases and acquisitions of new properties are also adversely affected and limited. As a result, the Company’s potential revenues from operations as well as the Company’s proved reserves may substantially decrease from levels achieved during the period when oil prices were much higher. There can be no assurances as to the future prices of oil or gas. A substantial or extended decline in oil or gas prices will continue to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations, quantities of oil and gas that may be economically produced, and access to capital. Oil and natural gas prices have historically been and are likely to continue to be volatile. This volatility makes it difficult to estimate with precision the value of producing properties in acquisitions and to budget and project the return on exploration and development projects involving the Company’s oil and gas properties. In addition, unusually volatile prices often disrupt the market for oil and gas properties, as buyers and sellers have more difficulty agreeing on the purchase price of properties. Risks in Rates of Oil and Gas Production, Development Expenditures, and Cash Flows May Have a Substantial Impact on the Company’s Finances. 24 Projecting the effects of commodity prices on production, and timing of development expenditures include many factors beyond the Company’s control. The future estimates of net cash flows from the Company’s proved reserves and their present value are based upon various assumptions about future production levels, prices, and costs that may prove to be incorrect over time. Any significant variance from assumptions could result in the actual future net cash flows being materially different from the estimates, which would have a significant impact on the Company’s financial position. The recent decline in oil prices in 2008 and the volatility of oil prices makes these projections even more difficult. The Company has a History of Significant Losses. During the early stages of the development of its oil and gas business the Company has had a history of significant losses from operations, in particular its development of the Swan Creek Field, and has an accumulated deficit of $ 26,476,148 as of December 31, 2008. Although management has substantially reduced its cash operating expenses, these losses have had a material adverse impact on the operations of the Company’s business. The Company was profitable in 2006 and 2007. In 2008, the Company’s had an operating profit before ceiling test write down of $4,777,179, but due to a non-cash ceiling write-down limitation of $11,608,397, ($7,661,397 net of tax effects) the Company recorded a net income of $169,662. In the event the Company experiences losses in the future it may curtail the Company’s development activities or force the Company to sell some of its assets in an untimely fashion or on less than favorable terms. The Company’s Oil and Gas Operations Involve Substantial Costs and are Subject to Various Economic Risks. The Company’s oil and gas oil and gas operations are subject to the economic risks typically associated with exploration, development and production activities, including the necessity of significant expenditures to locate and acquire new producing properties and to drill exploratory and developmental wells. In conducting exploration and development activities, the presence of unanticipated pressure or irregularities in formations, miscalculations or accidents may cause the Company’s exploration, development and production activities to be unsuccessful. This could result in a total loss of the Company’s investment in such well(s) or property. In addition, the cost and timing of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain. The Company’s Failure to Find or Acquire Additional Reserves Will Result in the Decline of the Company’s Reserves Materially From Their Current Levels. 25 The rate of production from the Company’s Kansas oil and Tennessee oil and natural gas properties generally declines as reserves are depleted. Except to the extent that the Company acquires additional properties containing proved reserves, conducts successful exploration and development drilling, or successfully applies new technologies or identifies additional behind-pipe zones or secondary recovery reserves, the Company’s proved reserves will decline materially as production from these properties continues. The Company’s future oil and natural gas production is therefore highly dependent upon the level of success in acquiring or finding additional reserves or other alternative sources of production. The current decline in oil prices and any prolonged decline of these prices will adversely impact the Company’s future reserves since the Company is less likely to acquire additional producing properties during such periods. The lower oil prices have a chilling effect on new drilling and development as such activities become far less likely to be profitable. Thus, any acquisition of new properties poses a greater risk to the Company’s financial condition as such acquisitions may be commercially unreasonable. In addition, the Company’s drilling for oil and natural gas may involve unprofitable efforts not only from dry wells but also from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net reserves to be commercially profitable after deducting drilling, operating, and other costs. In addition, wells that are profitable may not achieve a targeted rate of return. The Company relies on seismic data and other technologies in identifying prospects and in conducting exploration activities. The seismic data and other technologies used do not allow the Company to know conclusively prior to drilling a well whether oil or natural gas is present or may be produced economically. The ultimate costs of drilling, completing, and operating a well can adversely affect the economics of a project. Further drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of numerous factors, including unexpected drilling conditions, title problems, pressure or irregularities in formations, equipment failures or accidents, adverse weather conditions, environmental and other governmental requirements and the cost of, or shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs, equipment, and services. The Company’s Reserve Estimates May Be Subject to Other Material Downward Revisions. The Company’s oil reserve estimates or gas reserve estimates may be subject to material downward revisions for additional reasons other than the factors mentioned in the previous risk factor entitled “The Company’s Failure to Find or Acquire Additional Reserves Will Result in the Decline of the Company’s Reserves Materially from Their Current Levels.” While the future estimates of net cash flows from the Company’s proved reserves and their present value are based upon assumptions about future production levels, prices, and costs that may prove to be incorrect over time, those same assumptions, whether or not they prove to be correct, may cause the Company to make drilling or developmental decisions that will result in 26 some or all of the Company’s proved reserves to be removed from time to time from the proved reserve categories previously reported by the Company. This is particularly so if the price of oil declines sharply as it did during the period from December 2008 through January 2009. This may occur because economic expectations or forecasts, together with the Company’s limited resources, may cause the Company to determine that drilling or development of certain of its properties may be delayed or may not foreseeably occur, and as a result of such decisions any category of proved reserves relating to those yet undrilled or undeveloped properties may be removed from the Company’s reported proved reserves. Consequently, the Company’s proved reserves of oil or of gas, or both, may be materially revised downward from time to time. As an example, the Company’s proved Swan Creek gas reserves have been revised downward in the past few years as a result of removal of portions of the Company’s reported gas reserves from the “proved undeveloped category (“PUD”) and the “proved developed nonproducing” (“PDNP”) categories because of the Company’s determination that additional drilling or development of Swan Creek may not occur in the foreseeable future based on the Company’s determination that the economic returns from such drilling or development would not be favorable when compared to the costs and anticipated results of such activity. Although that particular revision at this time will not have a significant impact on overall results of operations in view of the relatively small portion of the Company’s current business and assets founded in natural gas (as opposed to oil where reserves have been materially revised upward in the same period), other revisions in gas reserves, or in oil reserves, in the future may be significant and materially reduce oil or gas reserves. In addition, the Company may elect to sell some or all of its oil or gas reserves in the normal course of the Company’s business. Any such sale would result in all categories of those proved oil or gas reserves that were sold no longer being reported by the Company. There is Risk that the Company may be Required to Write-Down the Carrying Value of its Natural Gas and Crude Oil Properties. The Company uses the full cost method to account for its natural gas and crude oil operations. Accordingly, the Company capitalizes the cost to acquire, explore for and develop natural gas and crude oil properties. Under full cost accounting rules, the net capitalized cost of natural gas and crude oil properties may not exceed a "ceiling limit" which is based upon the present value of estimated future net cash flows from proved reserves, discounted at 10%. If net capitalized costs of natural gas and crude oil properties exceed the ceiling limit, the Company must charge the amount of the excess, net of any tax effects, to earnings. This is called a "ceiling limitation write-down." This charge does not impact cash flow from operating activities, but does reduce the Company’s stockholders' equity and earnings. The risk that the Company will be required to write-down the carrying value of natural gas and crude oil properties increases when natural gas and crude oil prices are low. In addition, write-downs may occur if the Company experiences substantial downward adjustments to its estimated proved reserves. An expense recorded in one period may not be reversed in a subsequent period even though higher natural gas and crude oil prices may have increased the ceiling applicable to the subsequent period. 27 In 2008, the Company did incur a ceiling limitation write-down net of tax effects in the amount of $7.7 million due to the dramatically lower year-end oil prices in 2008 as compared to 2007 and the resulting significant downward adjustment of the Company’s estimated proved reserves. The effect of the ceiling write-down resulted in the Company recording net income of $169,662 in 2008 of despite having an operating profit in 2008 of $4,777,179 before the write down. In light of recent declines in oil prices and forecasts that such prices may continue at lower levels we cannot assure you that the Company will not experience similar ceiling limitation write-downs in the future. Use of the Company’s Net Operating Loss Carryforwards may be Limited. At December 31, 2008, the Company had, subject to the limitations discussed in this risk factor, substantial amounts of net operating loss carryforwards for U.S. federal income tax purposes. These loss carryforwards will eventually expire if not utilized. In addition, as to a portion of the U.S. net operating loss carryforwards, the amount of such carryforwards that the Company can use annually is limited under U.S. tax laws. Uncertainties exist as to both the calculation of the appropriate deferred tax assets based upon the existence of these loss carryforwards, as well as the future utilization of the operating loss carryforwards under the criteria set forth under FASB Statement No. 109. In addition, limitations exist upon use of these carryforwards in the event of a change in control of the Company occurs. There are risks that the Company may not be able to utilize some or all of the remaining carryforwards, or that deferred tax assets that were previously booked based upon such carryforwards may be written down or reversed based on future economic factors that may be experienced by the Company. The effect of such write downs or reversals, if they occur, may be material and substantially adverse. Shortages of Oil Field Equipment, Services and Qualified Personnel Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Results of Operations. The demand for qualified and experienced field personnel to drill wells and conduct field operations, geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other professionals in the oil and natural gas industry can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with oil and natural gas prices, causing periodic shortages. The Company does not own any drilling rigs and is dependent upon third parties to obtain and provide such equipment as needed for the Company’s drilling activities. There have also been shortages of drilling rigs and other equipment when oil prices have risen and as a result the demand for rigs and equipment increased along with the number of wells being drilled. These factors also cause significant increases in costs for equipment, services and personnel. Higher oil and natural gas prices generally stimulate increased demand and result in increased prices for drilling rigs, crews and associated supplies, equipment and services. These shortages or price increases could adversely affect the Company’s profit margin, cash flow, and operating results or restrict the Company’s ability to drill wells and conduct ordinary operations. 28 The Company has Significant Costs to Conform to Government Regulation of the Oil and Gas Industry. The Company’s exploration, production, and marketing operations are regulated extensively at the federal, state and local levels. The Company is currently in compliance with these regulations. In order to maintain its compliance, the Company has made and will have to continue to make substantial expenditures in its efforts to comply with the requirements of environmental and other regulations. Further, the oil and gas regulatory environment could change in ways that might substantially increase these costs. Hydrocarbon-producing states regulate conservation practices and the protection of correlative rights. These regulations affect the Company’s operations and limit the quantity of hydrocarbons it may produce and sell. In addition, at the federal level, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission regulates interstate transportation of natural gas under the Natural Gas Act. Other regulated matters include marketing, pricing, transportation and valuation of royalty payments. The Company also has Significant Costs Related to Environmental Matters. The Company’s operations are also subject to numerous and frequently changing laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. The Company owns or leases, and has owned or leased, properties that have been leased for the exploration and production of oil and gas and these properties and the wastes disposed on these properties may be subject to the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Federal Water Pollution Control Act and similar state laws. Under such laws, the Company could be required to remove or remediate wastes or property contamination. Laws and regulations protecting the environment have generally become more stringent and, may in some cases, impose “strict liability” for environmental damage. Strict liability means that the Company may be held liable for damage without regard to whether it was negligent or otherwise at fault. Environmental laws and regulations may expose the Company to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by others or for acts that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time they were performed. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the imposition of administrative, civil and criminal penalties. The Company’s ability to conduct continued operations is subject to satisfying applicable regulatory and permitting controls. The Company’s current permits and authorizations and ability to get future permits and authorizations may be susceptible, on a going forward basis, to increased scrutiny, greater complexity resulting in increased costs or delays in receiving appropriate authorizations. 29 Insurance Does Not Cover All Risks. Exploration for and production of oil and natural gas and the Company’s transportation and other activities can be hazardous, involving unforeseen occurrences such as blowouts, cratering, fires and loss of well control, which can result in damage to or destruction of wells or production facilities, injury to persons, loss of life, or damage to property or to the environment. Although the Company maintains insurance against certain losses or liabilities arising from its operations in accordance with customary industry practices and in amounts that management believes to be prudent, insurance is not available to the Company against all operational risks. The Company’s Methane Extraction from Non-conventional Reserves Operations Involve Substantial Costs and are Subject to Various Economic, Operational, and Regulatory Risks. The Company’s operations in projects involving the extraction of methane gas from non-conventional reserves such as landfill gas streams, require investment of substantial capital and are subject to the risks typically associated with capital intensive operations, including risks associated with the availability of financing for required equipment, construction schedules, air and water environmental permitting, and locating transportation facilities and customers for the products produced from those operations which may delay or prevent startup of such projects. After startup of commercial operations, the presence of unanticipated pressures or irregularities in constituents of the raw materials used in such projects from time to time, miscalculations or accidents may cause the Company’s project activities to be unsuccessful. Although the technologies to be utilized in such projects is believed to be effective and economical, there are operational risks in the use of such technologies in the combination to be utilized by the Company as a result of both the combination of technologies and the early stages of commercial development and use of such technologies for methane extraction from non-conventional sources such as those to be used by the Company. These risks could result in a total or partial loss of the Company’s investment in such projects. The economic risks of such projects include the marketing risks resulting from price volatility of the methane gas produced from such projects, which is similar to the price volatility of natural gas. These projects are also subject to the risk that the products manufactured may not be accepted for transportation in common carrier gas transportation facilities although the products meet specified requirements for such transportation, or may be accepted on such terms that reduce the returns of such projects to the Company. These projects are also subject to the risk that the product manufactured may not be accepted by purchasers thereof from time to time and the viability of such projects would be dependent upon the Company’s ability to locate a replacement market for physical delivery of the gas produced from the project. 30 The Company Faces Significant Competition With Respect to Acquisitions or Personnel. The oil and gas business is highly competitive. In seeking any suitable oil and gas properties for acquisition, or drilling rig operators and related personnel and equipment, the Company is a small entity with limited financial resources and may not be able to compete with most other companies, including large oil and gas companies and other independent operators with greater financial and technical resources and longer history and experience in property acquisition and operation. The Company Depends on Key Personnel, Whom it May Not be Able to Retain or Recruit. Jeffrey R. Bailey, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, other members of present management and certain Company employees have substantial expertise in the areas of endeavor presently conducted and to be engaged in by the Company. To the extent that their services become unavailable, the Company would be required to retain other qualified personnel. The Company does not know whether it would be able to recruit and hire qualified persons upon acceptable terms. The Company does not maintain “Key Person” insurance for any of the Company’s key employees. The Company’s Operations are Subject to Changes in the General Economic Conditions. Virtually all of the Company's operations are subject to the risks and uncertainties of adverse changes in general economic conditions, the outcome of pending and/or potential legal or regulatory proceedings, changes in environmental, tax, labor and other laws and regulations to which the Company is subject, and the condition of the capital markets utilized by the Company to finance its operations. Being a Public Company Significantly Increases the Company’s Administrative Costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and listing requirements subsequently adopted by the American Stock Exchange in response to Sarbanes-Oxley, have required changes in corporate governance practices, internal control policies and audit committee practices of public companies. Although the Company is a relatively small public company these rules, regulations, and requirements for the most part apply to the same extent as they apply to all major publicly traded companies. As a result, they have significantly increased the Company’s legal, financial, compliance and administrative costs, and have made certain other activities more time consuming and costly, as well as requiring substantial time and attention of our senior management. 31 The Company expects its continued compliance with these and future rules and regulations to continue to require significant resources. These rules and regulations also may make it more difficult and more expensive for the Company to obtain director and officer liability insurance in the future, and could make it more difficult for it to attract and retain qualified members for the Company’s Board of Directors, particularly to serve on its audit committee. The Company’s Chairman of the Board Beneficially Owns A Substantial Amount of the Company’s Common Stock And Has Significant Influence over the Company’s Business. Peter E. Salas, the Chairman of the Company’s Board of Directors, is the sole shareholder and controlling person of Dolphin Management, Inc., the general partner of Dolphin Offshore Partners, L.P., which is the Company’s largest shareholder. At December 31, 2008, Mr. Salas, directly and through Dolphin owned 21,057,492 shares of the Company’s common stock and had options granting him the right to acquire an additional 75,000 shares of common stock. His ownership and voting control over approximately 35.6% of the Company’s common stock gives him significant influence on the outcome of corporate transactions or other matters submitted to the Board of Directors or shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of the Company’s assets. Shares Eligible for Future Sale may Depress the Company’s Stock Price. As of March 2, 2009, the Company had 59,350,661 shares of common stock outstanding of which 21,727,379 shares were held by affiliates and, in addition, options to purchase 2,9310,000 shares of unissued common stock were granted under the Tengasco, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan (of which options to purchase 2,244,000 shares were vested at March 2, 2009). All of the shares of common stock held by affiliates are restricted or controlled securities under Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). The shares of the common stock issuable upon exercise of the stock options have been registered under the Securities Act. Sales of shares of common stock under Rule 144 or another exemption under the Securities Act or pursuant to a registration statement could have a material adverse effect on the price of the common stock and could impair the Company’s ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. Future Issuance of Additional Shares of the Company’s Common Stock could cause Dilution of Ownership Interests and Adversely Affect Stock Price. The Company may in the future issue previously authorized and unissued securities, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of its current stockholders. 32 The Company is currently authorized to issue a total of 100,000,000 shares of common stock with such rights as determined by the Board of Directors. Of that amount, approximately 59 million shares have been issued. The potential issuance of the approximately 41 million remaining authorized but unissued shares of common stock may create downward pressure on the trading price of the Company’s common stock. The Company may also issue additional shares of its common stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for common stock for raising capital or other business purposes. Future sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of the Company’s common stock. The Company may Issue Shares of Preferred Stock With Greater Rights than Common Stock. Subject to the rules of The American Stock Exchange, the Company’s charter authorizes the board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock and set the terms of the preferred stock without seeking any further approval from holders of the Company’s common stock. Any preferred stock that is issued may rank ahead of the Company’s common stock in terms of dividends, priority and liquidation premiums and may have greater voting rights than the Company’s common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 