Risk Factors. There are risks associated with an investment in our securities, including: The beauty business is highly competitive, and if we are unable to compete effectively our results will suffer. We face vigorous competition from companies throughout the world, including multinational consumer product companies. Some of these competitors have greater resources than we do. Competition in the beauty business is based on pricing of products, innovation, perceived value, service to the consumer, promotional activities, advertising, special events, new product introductions, electronic commerce initiatives and other activities. It is difficult for us to predict the timing and scale of our competitors’ actions in these areas. Also, the trend toward consolidation in the retail trade, particularly in developed markets such as the United States and Western Europe, has resulted in us becoming increasingly dependent on key retailers, including large-format retailers, who have increased their bargaining strength. Our ability to compete also depends on the continued strength of our brands, our ability to attract and retain key talent, the efficiency of our manufacturing facilities and distribution network, and our ability to protect our intellectual property. Our failure to continue to compete effectively in countries around the world could have an adverse impact on our business. Our inability to anticipate and respond to market trends and changes in consumer preferences could adversely affect our financial results. Our continued success depends on our ability to anticipate, gauge and react in a timely and cost-effective manner to changes in consumer tastes for skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care products as well as to where and how consumers shop for those products. We must continually work to develop, produce and market new products, maintain and enhance the recognition of our brands, achieve a favorable mix of products, and refine our approach as to how and where we market and sell our products. While we devote considerable effort and resources to shape, analyze and respond to consumer preferences, we recognize that consumer tastes cannot be predicted with certainty and can change rapidly. If we are unable to anticipate and respond to trends in the market for cosmetics products and changing consumer demands, our financial results will suffer. A general economic downturn or sudden disruption in business conditions may affect consumer purchases of discretionary items, which could adversely affect our financial results. The general level of consumer spending is affected by a number of factors, including general economic conditions, inflation, interest rates, energy costs, and consumer confidence generally, all of which are beyond our control. Consumer purchases of discretionary items tend to decline during recessionary periods, when disposable income is lower, and may impact sales of our products. In addition, sudden disruptions in business conditions, for example, as a consequence of events such as the outbreak of SARs in 2003 or those that are currently taking place in the Middle East, or as a result of a terrorist attack similar to the events of September 11, 2001 in the United States or the July 2005 events in the United Kingdom, including further attacks, retaliation and the threat of further attacks or retaliation can have a short and, sometimes, long-term impact on consumer spending. Events that impact consumers’ willingness to travel may impact our travel retail business, which is a significant contributor to our overall results. A downturn in the economies in which we sell our products or a sudden disruption of business conditions in those economies could adversely affect our sales. Changes in laws, regulations and polices that affect our business could adversely affect our financial results. Our business is subject to numerous laws, regulations and policies. Changes in the laws, regulations and policies that affect, or will affect, our business, including changes in accounting standards, tax laws and regulations, trade rules and customs regulations, and the outcome and expense of legal or regulatory proceedings, and any action we may take as a result could adversely affect our financial results. 12 We are subject to risks related to our international operations. We operate on a global basis, with approximately 51% of our fiscal 2005 net sales generated outside the United States. We maintain offices in over 30 countries and have key operational facilities located outside the United States that manufacture goods for sale throughout the world. Foreign operations are subject to many risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to: • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which can affect our results of operations; the value of our foreign assets; the relative prices at which we and foreign competitors sell products in the same markets; and the cost of certain items required in our operations; • changes in foreign laws, regulations and policies, including restrictions on trade, import and export license requirements, and tariffs and taxes, as well as changes in United States laws and regulations relating to foreign trade and investment; and • geopolitical conditions, such as terrorist attacks, war or other military action. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. A disruption in operations could adversely affect our business and financial results. As a company engaged in manufacturing and distribution on a global scale, we are subject to the risks inherent in such activities, including industrial accidents, environmental events, strikes and other labor disputes, disruptions in logistics or information systems, loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites, product quality control, safety, licensing requirements and other regulatory issues, as well as natural disasters and other external factors over which we have no control. If such an event were to occur, it could have an adverse affect on our business and financial results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. As of the filing of this annual report on Form 10-K, there were no unresolved comments from the Staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission. 