Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of or that we currently believe to be immaterial also may become important factors that affect us. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Weakening economic conditions, including the recent downturn in financial markets and reduced consumer spending, may adversely affect our ability to grow or maintain our business. Our ability to grow or maintain our business may be adversely affected by weakening economic conditions, including the effect of wavering consumer confidence, rising unemployment, tight credit markets, declines in financial markets, falling home prices and other factors. In particular, the recent economic downturn could result in the following: • Fewer Subscriber Additions and Increased Churn. We could continue to face fewer gross subscriber additions and increased churn due to, among other things: (i) the downturn in the housing market in the United Stares combined with lower discretionary spending; (ii) increased price competition for our products and services; and (iii) the potential loss of retailers, who generate a significant portion of our new subscribers, because many of them are small businesses that are more susceptible to the negative effects of a weak economy. In particular, subscriber churn may increase with respect to subscribers who purchase our lower tier programming packages and who may be more sensitive to deteriorating economic conditions. • Lower ARPU. Our ARPU could be negatively impacted by more aggressive introductory offers. Furthermore, due to lower levels of disposable income, our customers may downgrade to lower cost programming packages and elect not to purchase premium services or pay per view movies. • Higher Subscriber Acquisition and Retention Costs. Our profits may be adversely affected by increased subscriber acquisition and retention costs necessary to attract and retain subscribers in a more difficult economic environment. • Increased Impairment Charges. We may be more likely to incur impairment charges or losses related to our debt and equity investments due to the significant deterioration of the overall debt and equity markets. A prolonged downturn could further reduce the value of certain assets including, among other things, satellites and FCC licenses, and thus increase the possibility of impairment charges related to these investments as well. If we do not improve our operational performance and customer satisfaction, our gross subscriber additions may decrease and our subscriber churn may increase. If we are unable to improve our operational performance and customer satisfaction, we may experience a decrease in gross subscriber additions and an increase in churn, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In order to improve our operations, we have made and expect that we will continue to make material investments in staffing, training, information technology systems, and other initiatives, primarily in our call center and in-home service businesses. We cannot, however, be certain that our increased spending will ultimately be successful in yielding operational improvements. In the meantime, we may continue to incur higher costs as a result of both our operational inefficiencies and increased spending. 17 Table of Contents If declines in DISH Network gross subscriber additions, increases in subscriber churn and higher subscriber acquisition and retention costs continue, our financial performance will be further adversely affected. During the fourth quarter of 2008, we experienced a net loss of 102,000 DISH Network subscribers. We believe this net loss resulted from weaker economic conditions, aggressive subscriber acquisition and retention promotions by our competition, heavy marketing by our competition, the growth of fiber-based and Internet-based video providers, signal theft and other forms of fraud, and operational inefficiencies at DISH Network. We have not always met our own standards for performing high quality installations, effectively resolving customer issues when they arise, answering customer calls in an acceptable timeframe, effectively communicating with our customer base, reducing calls driven by the complexity of our business, improving the reliability of certain systems and customer equipment, and aligning the interests of certain third party retailers and installers to provide high quality service. Most of these factors have affected both gross new subscriber additions as well as existing subscriber churn. Our future gross subscriber additions and subscriber churn may continue to be negatively impacted by these factors, which could in turn adversely affect our revenue growth and results of operations. We may incur increased costs to acquire new and retain existing subscribers. Our subscriber acquisition costs could increase as a result of increased spending for advertising and the installation of more HD and DVR receivers, which are generally more expensive than other receivers. Meanwhile, retention costs may be driven higher by a faster rate of upgrading existing subscribers’ equipment to HD and DVR receivers. Additionally, certain of our promotions allow consumers with relatively lower credit scores to become subscribers and these subscribers typically churn at a higher rate. Our subscriber acquisition costs and our subscriber retention costs can vary significantly from period to period and can cause material variability to our net income (loss) and free cash flow. Any material increase in subscriber acquisition or retention costs from current levels could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. We face intense and increasing competition from satellite television providers, cable television providers, telecommunications companies, and companies that provide/facilitate the delivery of video content via the internet. Our business is focused on providing pay-TV services and we have traditionally competed against satellite and cable television providers. Many of these competitors offer video services bundled with broadband and video services, HD offerings and video on demand services that consumers may find attractive. In addition, DirecTV’s satellite receivers and services are offered through a significantly greater number of consumer electronics stores than ours. As a result of this and other factors, our services are less known to consumers than those of DirecTV. Due to this relative lack of consumer awareness and other factors, we are at a competitive marketing disadvantage compared to DirecTV. DirecTV also offers exclusive programming that may be attractive to prospective subscribers, and may have access to discounts on programming not available to us. Competition has intensified in recent quarters with the rapid growth of fiber-based pay-TV services offered by telecommunications companies such as Verizon and AT&T. These telecommunications companies are upgrading their older copper wire telephone lines with high-bandwidth fiber optic lines in larger markets. These fiber optic lines provide significantly greater capacity, enabling the telecommunications companies to offer substantial HD programming content. In addition, the upcoming transition from analog to digital delivery will allow broadcasters to provide improved signal quality, offer additional channels including content broadcast in HD, and explore new business opportunities such as mobile video. We also expect to face increasing competition from companies who distribute/facilitate video services to consumers over the Internet. This growth of viable video alternatives over the Internet could negatively impact consumer demand for our products and services. 18 Table of Contents This increasingly competitive environment may require us to increase subscriber acquisition and retention spending or accept lower subscriber acquisitions and higher subscriber churn. We may be required to make substantial additional investments in order to maintain competitive HD programming offerings. We believe that the availability and extent of HD programming has become and will continue to be a significant factor in consumer’s choice among pay-TV providers. Other pay-TV providers may have more successfully marketed and promoted their HD programming packages and may also be better equipped to increase their HD offerings to respond to increasing consumer demand for this content. We may be required to make substantial additional investments in infrastructure to respond to competitive pressure to deliver additional HD programming, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively with HD program offerings from other pay-TV providers. In particular, in recent quarters, our capital expenditures have increased because we have made significant efforts to expand our HD capability and provide more of our subscribers with HD set top boxes. Technology in our industry changes rapidly and could cause our services and products to become obsolete. Our operating results are dependent to a significant extent upon our ability to continue to introduce new products and services on a timely basis and to reduce costs of our existing products and services. We may not be able to successfully identify new product or service opportunities or develop and market these opportunities in a timely or cost-effective manner. The success of new product development depends on many factors, including proper identification of customer need, cost, timely completion and introduction, differentiation from offerings of competitors and market acceptance. Technology in the pay-TV industry changes rapidly as new technologies are developed, which could cause our services and products to become obsolete. We and our suppliers may not be able to keep pace with technological developments. If the new technologies on which we intend to focus our research and development investments fail to achieve acceptance in the marketplace, our competitive position could be impaired causing a reduction in our revenues and earnings. We may also be at a competitive disadvantage in developing and introducing complex new products and technologies because of the substantial costs we may incur in making these products or technologies available across our installed base of over 13 million subscribers. For example, our competitors could be the first to obtain proprietary technologies that are perceived by the market as being superior. Further, after we have incurred substantial research and development costs, one or more of the technologies under our development, or under development by one or more of our strategic partners, could become obsolete prior to its introduction. In addition, delays in the delivery of components or other unforeseen problems in our DBS system may occur that could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate revenue, offer new services and remain competitive. Technological innovation is important to our success and depends, to a significant degree, on the work of technically skilled employees. We rely on EchoStar Corporation to design and develop set-top boxes with advanced features and functionality. If EchoStar is unable to attract and retain appropriately technically skilled employees, our competitive position could be materially and adversely affected. We may need additional capital, which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all, in order to continue investing in our business and to finance acquisitions and other strategic transactions. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to among other things, continue investing in our business, construct and launch new satellites, and to pursue acquisitions and other strategic transactions. Recent developments in the financial markets such as the scarcity of capital have made it more difficult for non-investment grade borrowers of high yield indebtedness to access capital markets at acceptable terms or at all. The recent reduction in our stock price combined with the instability in the equity markets has made it difficult for us to raise equity financing without incurring substantial dilution to our existing shareholders. In addition, weak market conditions may limit our ability to generate sufficient internal cash to fund these investments, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other strategic transactions. We cannot predict with any certainty whether or not we will be impacted by the current adverse credit market. As a result, these conditions make it difficult for us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities because we may not have access to funding sources necessary for us to pursue organic and strategic business development opportunities. 19 Table of Contents A portion of our investment portfolio is invested in securities that have experienced limited or no liquidity in recent months and may not be immediately accessible to support our financing needs. A portion of our investment portfolio is invested in asset backed securities, auction rate securities, mortgage backed securities, special investment vehicles, and strategic investments and as a result a portion of our portfolio has restricted liquidity. Liquidity in the markets for these investments has been impaired in the past year and these market conditions have adversely affected our liquidity. In addition, certain of these securities have defaulted or have been materially downgraded causing us to record impairment charges. If the credit ratings of these securities further deteriorate or the lack of liquidity in the marketplace becomes prolonged, we may be required to record further impairment charges. Moreover, the current significant volatility of domestic and global financial markets has greatly affected the volatility and value of our marketable investment securities. To the extent we require access to funds, we may need to sell these securities under unfavorable market conditions, record further impairment charges and fall short of our financing needs. AT&T’s termination of its distribution agreement with us may reduce subscriber additions and increase churn if we are not able to develop alternative distribution channels. Our distribution relationship with AT&T was a substantial contributor to our gross and net subscriber additions over the past several years, accounting for approximately 17% of our gross subscriber additions for the year ended December 31, 2008 and 19% of our gross subscriber additions in the fourth quarter. This distribution relationship ended on January 31, 2009. AT&T has entered into a new distribution relationship with DirecTV. It may be difficult for us to develop alternative distribution channels that will fully replace AT&T and if we are unable to do so, our gross and net subscriber additions may be further impaired, our subscriber churn may increase, and our results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, approximately one million of our current subscribers were acquired through our distribution relationship with AT&T and subscribers acquired through this channel have historically churned at a higher rate than our overall subscriber base. Although AT&T is not permitted to target these subscribers for transition to another pay-TV service and we and AT&T are required to maintain bundled billing and cooperative customer service for these subscribers, these subscribers may still churn at higher than historical rates following termination of the AT&T distribution relationship. As technology changes, and in order to remain competitive, we may have to upgrade or replace subscriber equipment and make substantial investments in our infrastructure. Our competitive position depends in part on our ability to offer new subscribers and upgrade existing subscribers with more advanced equipment, such as receivers with DVR and HD technology. Furthermore, the increase in demand for HD programming requires investments in additional satellite capacity. We may not be able to pass on to our subscribers the entire cost of these upgrades and infrastructure investments. We rely on EchoStar to design and develop all of our new set-top boxes and certain related components, and to provide transponder capacity, digital broadcast operations and other services for us. Our business would be adversely affected if EchoStar ceases to provide these services to us and we are unable to obtain suitable replacement services from third parties. EchoStar is our sole supplier of digital set-top boxes and digital broadcast operations. In addition, EchoStar is a key supplier of other satellite services to us. Because purchases from DISH Network are made pursuant to contracts that generally expire on January 1, 2010, EchoStar will have no obligation to supply digital set-top boxes and satellite services to us after that date. Equipment, transponder leasing and digital broadcast operation costs may increase beyond our current expectations. We may be unable to renew agreements for these services with EchoStar on acceptable terms or at all. EchoStar’s inability to develop and produce, or our inability to obtain, equipment with the latest technology, or our inability to obtain transponder capacity and digital broadcast operations and other services from third parties, could affect our subscriber acquisition and churn and cause related revenue to decline. 20 Table of Contents Furthermore, any transition to a new supplier of set-top boxes could result in increased costs, resources and development and customer qualification time. Any reduction in our supply of set-top boxes could significantly delay our ability to ship set-top boxes to our subscribers and potentially damage our relationships with our subscribers. We rely on one or a limited number of vendors, and the inability of these key vendors to meet our needs could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have contracted with a limited number of vendors to provide certain key products or services to us such as information technology support, billing systems, and security access devices. Our dependence on these vendors makes our operations vulnerable to such third parties’ failure to perform adequately. In addition, we have historically relied on a single source for certain items. If these vendors are unable to meet our needs because they are no longer in business or because they discontinue a certain product or service we need, our business, financial position and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our inability to develop alternative sources quickly and on a cost-effective basis could materially impair our ability to timely deliver our products to our subscribers or operate our business. Furthermore, our vendors may request changes in pricing, payment terms or other contractual obligations between the parties which could cause us to make substantial additional investments. Our programming signals are subject to theft, and we are vulnerable to other forms of fraud that could require us to make significant expenditures to remedy. Increases in theft of our signal, or our competitors’ signals, could in addition to reducing new subscriber activations, also cause subscriber churn to increase. We use security access devices in our receiver systems to control access to authorized programming content. Our signal encryption has been compromised in the past and may be compromised in the future even though we continue to respond with significant investment in security measures, such as security access device replacement programs and updates in security software, that are intended to make signal theft more difficult. It has been our prior experience that security measures may be only effective for short periods of time or not at all and that we remain susceptible to additional signal theft. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in reducing or controlling theft of our programming content. During the third quarter of 2008, we began implementing a plan to replace our existing security access devices to re-secure our system, which is expected to take approximately nine to twelve months to complete. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in reducing or controlling theft of our programming content and we may incur additional costs in the future if our security access device replacement plan is not effective. We are also vulnerable to other forms of fraud. While we are addressing certain fraud through a number of actions, including terminating more than 60 retailers for violating DISH Network business rules, there can be no assurance that we will not continue to experience fraud which could impact our subscriber growth and churn. The current economic downturn may create greater incentive for signal theft and other forms of fraud, which could lead to higher subscriber churn and reduced revenue. We depend on third parties to solicit orders for DISH Network services that represent a significant percentage of our total gross subscriber acquisitions. A number of our retailers are not exclusive to us and may favor our competitors’ products and services over ours based on the relative financial arrangements associated with selling our products and those of our competitors. Furthermore, some of these retailers are significantly smaller than we are and may be more susceptible to current uncertain economic conditions that will make it more difficult for them to operate profitably. Because our retailers receive most of their incentive value at activation and not over an extended period of time, our interests in obtaining and retaining subscribers through good customer service may not always be aligned with our retailers. It may be difficult to better align our interests with our resellers’ because of their capital and liquidity constraints. Loss of one or more of these relationships could have an adverse effect on our subscriber base and certain of our other key operating metrics because we may not be able to develop comparable alternative distribution channels. 21 Table of Contents We depend on others to provide the programming that we offer to our subscribers and, if we lose access to this programming, our subscriber losses and subscriber churn may increase. We depend on third parties to provide us with programming services. Our programming agreements have remaining terms ranging from less than one to up to ten years and contain various renewal and cancellation provisions. We may not be able to renew these agreements on favorable terms or at all, and these agreements may be canceled prior to expiration of their original term. If we are unable to renew any of these agreements or the other parties cancel the agreements, we cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain substitute programming, or that such substitute programming would be comparable in quality or cost to our existing programming. In addition, the loss of programming could increase our subscriber churn. We also expect programming costs to continue to increase. We may be unable to pass programming costs on to our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our competitors may be able to leverage their relationships with programmers so that they are able to reduce their programming costs and offer exclusive content that will place them at a competitive advantage to us. The cost of programming represents a large percentage of our overall costs. Certain of our competitors own directly or are affiliated with companies that own programming content that may enable them to obtain lower programming costs. Unlike our larger cable and satellite competitors, we have not made significant investments in programming providers. Furthermore, our competitors offer exclusive programming that may be attractive to prospective subscribers. We depend on the Cable Act for access to programming from cable-affiliate programmers at cost-effective rates. We purchase a large percentage of our programming from cable-affiliated programmers. The Cable Act’s provisions prohibiting exclusive contracting practices with cable affiliated programmers were extended for another five-year period in September 2007. Cable companies have appealed the FCC’s decision. We cannot predict the outcome or timing of that litigation. Any change in the Cable Act and the FCC’s rules that permit the cable industry or cable-affiliated programmers to discriminate against competing businesses, such as ours, in the sale of programming could adversely affect our ability to acquire cable-affiliated programming at all or to acquire programming on a cost-effective basis. Further, the FCC generally has not shown a willingness to enforce the program access rules aggressively. As a result, we may be limited in our ability to obtain access (or nondiscriminatory access) to programming from programmers that are affiliated with the cable system operators. In addition, affiliates of certain cable providers have denied us access to sports programming they feed to their cable systems terrestrially, rather than by satellite. To the extent that cable operators deliver additional programming terrestrially in the future, they may assert that this additional programming is also exempt from the program access laws. These restrictions on our access to programming could materially and adversely affect our ability to compete in regions serviced by these cable providers. We face increasing competition from other distributors of foreign language programming that may limit our ability to maintain our foreign language programming subscriber base. We face increasing competition from other distributors of foreign language programming, including programming distributed over the Internet. There can be no assurance that we will maintain subscribers in our foreign-language programming services. In addition, the increasing availability of foreign language programming from our competitors, which in certain cases has resulted from our inability to renew programming agreements on an exclusive basis or at all, could contribute to an increase in our subscriber churn. Our agreements with distributors of foreign language programming have varying expiration dates, and some agreements are on a month-to-month basis. There can be no assurance that we will be able to grow or maintain our foreign language programming subscriber base. 22 Table of Contents Our local programming strategy faces uncertainty because we may not be able to obtain necessary retransmission consents from local network stations. SHVIA generally gives satellite companies a statutory copyright license to retransmit local broadcast channels by satellite back into the market from which they originated, subject to obtaining the retransmission consent of the local network station. If we fail to reach retransmission consent agreements with broadcasters we cannot carry their signals. This could have an adverse effect on our strategy to compete with cable and other satellite companies which provide local signals. While we have been able to reach retransmission consent agreements with most local network stations in markets where we currently offer local channels by satellite, roll-out of local channels in additional cities will require that we obtain additional retransmission agreements. We cannot be sure that we will secure these agreements or that we will secure new agreements on acceptable terms upon the expiration of our current retransmission consent agreements. We are subject to significant regulatory oversight and changes in applicable regulatory requirements could adversely affect our business. DBS operators are subject to significant government regulation, primarily by the FCC and, to a certain extent, by Congress, other federal agencies and international, state and local authorities. Depending upon the circumstances, noncompliance with legislation or regulations promulgated by these entities could result in the suspension or revocation of our licenses or registrations, the termination or loss of contracts or the imposition of contractual damages, civil fines or criminal penalties any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. You should review the regulatory disclosures under the caption “Item 1. Business — Government Regulation — FCC Regulation under the Communication Act” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have made a substantial investment in certain 700 MHz wireless licenses and will be required to make significant additional investments in order to commercialize these licenses and recoup our investment. We paid $712 million to acquire certain 700 MHz wireless licenses, which were granted to us by the FCC in February 2009. We will be required to make significant additional investments or partner with others to commercialize these licenses and satisfy FCC build-out requirements. We expect to invest significant additional amounts to develop services and infrastructure to effectively utilize the spectrum and provide services to our customers. We will also need to comply with the technical and operational rules and regulations adopted by the FCC for this spectrum, including specific build-out requirements. Part or all of our licenses can be terminated for failure to satisfy these requirements. Specifically, we will be required to meet interim build-out benchmarks by June 2013. Failure to meet an interim benchmark requirement will cause a two year reduction in our license term (from 10 years to 8 years) and may result in enforcement action, including forfeitures, and the loss of right to operate in any unserved areas. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop and implement a business model that will realize a return on these investments and profitably deploy the spectrum represented by the 700 MHz licenses. Furthermore, the fair values of wireless licenses may vary significantly in the future. In particular, valuation swings could occur if: • consolidation in the wireless industry allows or requires wireless carriers to sell significant portions of their wireless spectrum holdings, which could in turn reduce the value of our spectrum holdings; or • a sudden large sale of spectrum by one or more wireless providers occurs. In addition, the fair value of wireless licenses could decline as a result of the FCC’s pursuit of policies, including auctions, designed to increase the number of wireless licenses available in each of our markets. If the fair value of our 700 MHz licenses were to decline significantly, the value of our 700 MHz licenses could be subject to non-cash impairment charges. We assess potential impairments to our indefinite-lived intangible assets, including our 700 MHz licenses annually to determine whether there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment condition may exist. Estimates of the fair value of our 700 MHz licenses are based primarily on 23 Table of Contents available market prices, including successful bid prices in FCC auctions and selling prices observed in wireless license transactions. We have substantial debt outstanding and may incur additional debt that could have a dilutive effect on our outstanding equity capital or future earnings. As of December 31, 2008, our total debt, including the debt of our subsidiaries, was $5.008 billion. Our debt levels could have significant consequences, including: • requiring us to devote a substantial portion of our cash to make interest and principal payments on our debt, thereby reducing the amount of cash available for other purposes. As a result, we would have limited financial and operating flexibility in responding to changing economic and competitive conditions; • limiting our ability to raise additional debt because it may be more difficult for highly leveraged issuers such as us to obtain debt financing on attractive terms; and • placing us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. In addition, we may incur substantial additional debt in the future. The terms of the indentures relating to our senior notes permit us to incur additional debt. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the risks we now face could intensify. If we are unsuccessful in defending Tivo’s litigation against us, we could be prohibited from offering DVR technology that would in turn put us at a significant disadvantage to our competitors. During 2008, Tivo filed a motion for contempt alleging that our next-generation DVRs continue to infringe a patent held by Tivo. If we are unsuccessful in defending against Tivo’s motion for contempt or any subsequent claim that our alternative technology infringes Tivo’s patent, we could be prohibited from distributing DVRs or could be required to modify or eliminate certain user-friendly DVR features that we currently offer to consumers. In that event we would be at a significant disadvantage to our competitors who could offer this functionality and, while we would attempt to provide that functionality through other manufacturers, the adverse affect on our business could be material. We could also have to pay substantial additional damages. We have limited owned and leased satellite capacity and satellite failures could adversely affect our business. Operation of our subscription television service requires that we have adequate satellite transmission capacity for the programming we offer. Moreover, current competitive conditions require that we continue to expand our offering of new programming, particularly by expanding local HD coverage and offering more HD national channels. While we generally have had in-orbit satellite capacity sufficient to transmit our existing channels and some backup capacity to recover the transmission of certain critical programming, our backup capacity is limited. In the event of a failure or loss of any of our satellites, we may need to acquire or lease additional satellite capacity or relocate one of our other satellites and use it as a replacement for the failed or lost satellite. Such a failure could result in a prolonged loss of critical programming or a significant delay in our plans to expand programming as necessary to remain competitive and thus have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our owned and leased satellites are subject to risks related to launch that could limit our ability to utilize these satellites. Satellite launches are subject to significant risks, including delay, launch failure and incorrect orbital placement. Certain launch vehicles that may be used by us have either unproven track records or have experienced launch failures in the past. The risks of launch delay and failure are usually greater when the launch vehicle does not have a track record of previous successful flights. Launch failures result in significant delays in the deployment of satellites because of the need both to construct replacement satellites, which can take more than three years, and to obtain other launch opportunities. Such significant delays could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. If we were unable to obtain launch insurance, or obtain launch insurance at rates we 24 Table of Contents deem commercially reasonable, and a significant launch failure were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues and fund future satellite procurement and launch opportunities. In addition, the occurrence of future launch failures may materially and adversely affect our ability to insure the launch of our satellites at commercially reasonable premiums, if at all. Please see further discussion under the caption “We currently have no commercial insurance coverage on the satellites we own” below. Our owned and leased satellites are subject to significant operational and atmospheric risks that could limit our ability to utilize these satellites. Satellites are subject to significant operational risks while in orbit. These risks include malfunctions, commonly referred to as anomalies, that have occurred in our satellites and the satellites of other operators as a result of various factors, such as satellite manufacturers’ errors, problems with the power systems or control systems of the satellites and general failures resulting from operating satellites in the harsh environment of space. Although we work closely with the satellite manufacturers to determine and eliminate the cause of anomalies in new satellites and provide for redundancies of many critical components in the satellites, we may experience anomalies in the future, whether of the types described above or arising from the failure of other systems or components. Any single anomaly or series of anomalies could materially and adversely affect our operations and revenues and our relationship with current customers, as well as our ability to attract new customers for our multi-channel video services. In particular, future anomalies may result in the loss of individual transponders on a satellite, a group of transponders on that satellite or the entire satellite, depending on the nature of the anomaly. Anomalies may also reduce the expected useful life of a satellite, thereby reducing the channels that could be offered using that satellite, or create additional expenses due to the need to provide replacement or back-up satellites. You should review the disclosures relating to satellite anomalies set forth under Note 7 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Meteoroid events pose a potential threat to all in-orbit satellites. The probability that meteoroids will damage those satellites increases significantly when the Earth passes through the particulate stream left behind by comets. Occasionally, increased solar activity also poses a potential threat to all in-orbit satellites. Some decommissioned spacecraft are in uncontrolled orbits which pass through the geostationary belt at various points, and present hazards to operational spacecraft, including our satellites. We may be required to perform maneuvers to avoid collisions and these maneuvers may prove unsuccessful or could reduce the useful life of the satellite through the expenditure of fuel to perform these maneuvers. The loss, damage or destruction of any of our satellites as a result of an electrostatic storm, collision with space debris, malfunction or other event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our owned and leased satellites have minimum design lives of 12 years, but could fail or suffer reduced capacity before then. Our ability to earn revenue depends on the usefulness of our satellites, each of which has a limited useful life. A number of factors affect the useful lives of the satellites, including, among other things, the quality of their construction, the durability of their component parts, the ability to continue to maintain proper orbit and control over the satellite’s functions, the efficiency of the launch vehicle used, and the remaining on-board fuel following orbit insertion. Generally, the minimum design life of each of our satellites is 12 years. We can provide no assurance, however, as to the actual useful lives of the satellites. In the event of a failure or loss of any of our satellites, we may need to acquire or lease additional satellite capacity or relocate one of our other satellites and use it as a replacement for the failed or lost satellite, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A relocation would require FCC approval and, among other things, a showing to the FCC that the replacement satellite would not cause additional interference compared to the failed or lost satellite. We cannot be certain that we could obtain such FCC approval. If we choose to use a satellite in this manner, this use could adversely affect our ability to meet the 25 Table of Contents operation deadlines associated with our authorizations. Failure to meet those deadlines could result in the loss of such authorizations, which would have an adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues. We currently have no commercial insurance coverage on the satellites we own and could face significant impairment charges if one of our satellites fails. Generally, we do not carry launch or in-orbit insurance on the satellites we use. We currently do not carry in-orbit insurance on any of our satellites and do not use commercial insurance to mitigate the potential financial impact of in-orbit failures because we believe that the cost of insurance premiums is uneconomical relative to the risk of satellite failure. If one or more of our in-orbit satellites fail, we could be required to record significant impairment charges. We may have potential conflicts of interest with EchoStar due to our common ownership and management. Questions relating to conflicts of interest may arise between EchoStar and us in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships. Areas in which conflicts of interest between EchoStar and us could arise include, but are not limited to, the following: • Cross officerships, directorships and stock ownership. We have significant overlap in directors and executive officers with EchoStar, which may lead to conflicting interests. For instance, certain of our executive officers, including Charles W. Ergen, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, serve as executive officers of EchoStar. Three of our executive officers provide management services to EchoStar pursuant to a management services agreement between EchoStar and us. These individuals may have actual or apparent conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving or affecting each company. Furthermore, our board of directors includes persons who are members of the board of directors of EchoStar, including Mr. Ergen, who serves as the Chairman of EchoStar and us. The executive officers and the members of our board of directors who overlap with EchoStar have fiduciary duties to EchoStar’s shareholders. For example, there is the potential for a conflict of interest when we or EchoStar look at acquisitions and other corporate opportunities that may be suitable for both companies. In addition, our directors and officers own EchoStar stock and options to purchase EchoStar stock, which they acquired or were granted prior to the Spin-off of EchoStar from us, including Mr. Ergen, who owns approximately 53.0% of the total equity and controls approximately 87.0% of the voting power of EchoStar. These ownership interests could create actual, apparent or potential conflicts of interest when these individuals are faced with decisions that could have different implications for us and EchoStar. • Intercompany agreements related to the Spin-off. We have entered into certain agreements with EchoStar pursuant to which we will provide EchoStar with certain management, administrative, accounting, tax, legal and other services, for which EchoStar will pay us our cost plus a fixed margin. In addition, we have entered into a number of intercompany agreements covering matters such as tax sharing and EchoStar’s responsibility for certain liabilities previously undertaken by us for certain of EchoStar’s businesses. We have also entered into certain commercial agreements with EchoStar pursuant to which EchoStar is, among other things, obligated to sell to us at specified prices, set-top boxes and related equipment. The terms of these agreements were established while EchoStar was a wholly-owned subsidiary of us and were not the result of arm’s length negotiations. The allocation of assets, liabilities, rights, indemnifications and other obligations between EchoStar and us under the separation and other intercompany agreements we entered into with EchoStar in connection with the Spin-off of EchoStar from us do not necessarily reflect what two unaffiliated parties might have agreed to. Had these agreements been negotiated with unaffiliated third parties, their terms may have been more favorable, or less favorable, to us. In addition, conflicts could arise between us and EchoStar in the interpretation or any extension or renegotiation of these existing agreements. • Future intercompany transactions. In the future, EchoStar or its affiliates may enter into transactions with us or our subsidiaries or other affiliates. Although the terms of any such transactions will be established based upon negotiations between EchoStar and us and, when appropriate, subject to the approval of the disinterested directors on our board or a committee of disinterested directors, there can be no assurance that 26 Table of Contents the terms of any such transactions will be as favorable to us or our subsidiaries or affiliates as may otherwise be obtained in arm’s length negotiations. • Business Opportunities. We have retained interests in various U.S. and international companies that have subsidiaries or controlled affiliates that own or operate domestic or foreign services that may compete with services offered by EchoStar. We may also compete with EchoStar when we participate in auctions for spectrum or orbital slots for our satellites. In addition, EchoStar may in the future use its satellites, uplink and transmission assets to compete directly against us in the subscription television business. We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts, and, even if we do so, the resolution may be less favorable to us than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated party. We do not have any agreements with EchoStar that restrict us from selling our products to competitors of EchoStar. We also do not have any agreements with EchoStar that would prevent either company from competing with the other. We rely on key personnel and the loss of their services or the inability to attract and retain them may negatively affect our businesses. We believe that our future success will depend to a significant extent upon the performance of Charles W. Ergen, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer and certain other executives. The loss of Mr. Ergen or of certain other key executives could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although all of our executives have executed agreements limiting their ability to work for or consult with competitors if they leave us, we do not have employment agreements with any of them. Pursuant to a management services agreement with EchoStar entered into at the time of the Spin-off, we have agreed to make certain of our key officers available to provide services to EchoStar. In addition Mr. Ergen also serves as Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of EchoStar. To the extent Mr. Ergen and such other officers are performing services for EchoStar, this may divert their time and attention away from our business and may therefore adversely affect our business. We are controlled by one principal stockholder who is also our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. Charles W. Ergen, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, currently beneficially owns approximately 42.0% of our total equity securities and possesses approximately 58.0% of the total voting power. Mr. Ergen’s beneficial ownership of shares of Class A Common Stock excludes 88,496,990 shares of Class A Common Stock issuable upon conversion of shares of Class B Common Stock currently held by certain trusts established by Mr. Ergen for the benefit of his family. These trusts beneficially own approximately 33.0% of our total equity securities and possess approximately 34.0% of the total voting power. Through his voting power, Mr. Ergen has the ability to elect a majority of our directors and to control all other matters requiring the approval of our stockholders. As a result, DISH Network is a “controlled company” as defined in the Nasdaq listing rules and is, therefore, not subject to Nasdaq requirements that would otherwise require us to have (i) a majority of independent directors; (ii) a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors; (iii) compensation of our executive officers determined by a majority of the independent directors or a compensation committee composed solely of independent directors; and (iv) director nominees selected, or recommended for the Board’s selection, either by a majority of the independent directors or a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors. We are party to various lawsuits which, if adversely decided, could have a significant adverse impact on our business, particularly lawsuits regarding intellectual property. We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims which arise in the ordinary course of business, including among other things, disputes with programmers regarding fees. Many entities, including some of our competitors, have or may in the future obtain patents and other intellectual property rights that cover or affect products or services related to those that we offer. In general, if a court determines that one or more of our products infringes on intellectual property held by others, we may be required to cease developing or marketing those products, to obtain licenses from the holders of the intellectual property at a material cost, or to redesign those products in such a way as to avoid infringing the patent claims. If those intellectual property rights are held by a competitor, we may be 27 Table of Contents unable to obtain the intellectual property at any price, which could adversely affect our competitive position. Please see further discussion under Item 1. Business — Patents and Trademarks of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may pursue acquisitions and other strategic transactions to complement or expand our business which may not be successful and in which we may lose the entire value of our investment. Our future success may depend on opportunities to buy other businesses or technologies that could complement, enhance or expand our current business or products or that might otherwise offer us growth opportunities. We may not be able to complete such transactions and such transactions, if executed, pose significant risks and could have a negative effect on our operations. Any transactions that we are able to identify and complete may involve a number of risks, including: • the diversion of our management’s attention from our existing business to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired or combined business or joint venture; • possible adverse effects on our operating results during the integration process; • a high degree of risk involved in these transactions, which could become substantial over time, and higher exposure to significant financial losses if the underlying ventures are not successful; and • our possible inability to achieve the intended objectives of the transaction. In addition, we may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage our newly acquired operations or employees. We may not be able to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, and this may lead to operational inefficiencies. New acquisitions, joint ventures and other transactions may require the commitment of significant capital that would otherwise be directed to investments in our existing businesses or be distributed to shareholders. Commitment of this capital may cause us to defer or suspend any share repurchases that we otherwise may have made. Our business depends substantially on FCC licenses that can expire or be revoked or modified and applications that may not be granted. If the FCC were to cancel, revoke, suspend or fail to renew any of our licenses or authorizations, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, profitability and cash flows. Specifically, loss of a frequency authorization would reduce the amount of spectrum available to us, potentially reducing the amount of programming and other services available to our subscribers. The materiality of such a loss of authorizations would vary based upon, among other things, the location of the frequency used or the availability of replacement spectrum. In addition, Congress often considers and enacts legislation that could affect us, and FCC proceedings to implement the Communications Act and enforce its regulations are ongoing. We cannot predict the outcomes of these legislative or regulatory proceedings or their effect on our business. We are subject to digital HD “carry-one-carry-all” requirements that cause capacity constraints. In order to provide any full-power analog local broadcast signal in any market today, we are required to retransmit all qualifying analog broadcast signals in that market (“carry-one-carry-all”). The digital transition requires all full-power broadcasters to cease transmission using analog signals and switch over to digital signals by June 12, 2009. The switch to digital will provide broadcasters significantly greater capacity to provide high definition and multi-cast programming. During March 2008, the FCC adopted new digital carriage rules that require DBS providers to phase in carry-one-carry-all obligations with respect to the carriage of full-power broadcasters’ HD signals by February 2013. The carriage of additional HD signals on our DBS system could cause us to experience significant capacity constraints and limit the number of local markets that we can serve. The digital transition has also necessitated resource-intensive efforts by us to transition broadcast signals switching from analog to digital at the hundreds of local facilities we utilize across the nation to receive local channels and transmit them to our uplink facilities. In addition, the FCC is now considering whether to require DBS providers to carry broadcast stations in both standard definition and high definition starting in 2010, in conjunction with the phased-in HD carry-one, carry-all requirements adopted by the FCC. If we were required to carry multiple versions of each broadcast station, we 28 Table of Contents would have to dedicate more of our finite satellite capacity to each broadcast station, which may force us to reduce the number of local markets served and limit our ability to meet competitive needs. We cannot predict the outcome or timing of that proceeding. It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so may be beneficial to our shareholders, because of our capital structure. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company that a shareholder may consider favorable. These provisions include the following: • a capital structure with multiple classes of common stock: a Class A that entitles the holders to one vote per share, a Class B that entitles the holders to ten votes per share, a Class C that entitles the holders to one vote per share, except upon a change in control of our company in which case the holders of Class C are entitled to ten votes per share; • a provision that authorizes the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; • a provision limiting who may call special meetings of shareholders; and • a provision establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by shareholders at shareholder meetings. In addition, pursuant to our certificate of incorporation we have a significant amount of authorized and unissued stock which would allow our board of directors to issue shares to persons friendly to current management, thereby protecting the continuity of its management, or which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of persons seeking to obtain control of us. We cannot assure you that there will not be deficiencies leading to material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. We periodically evaluate and test our internal control over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Although our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2008, if in the future we are unable to report that our internal control over financial reporting is effective (or if our auditors do not agree with our assessment of the effectiveness of, or are unable to express an opinion on, our internal control over financial reporting), investors, customers and business partners could lose confidence in the accuracy of our financial reports, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, investor confidence in our financial results may weaken, and our stock price may suffer. We may face other risks described from time to time in periodic and current reports we file with the SEC. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 29 Table of Contents 