ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS: Every investor or potential investor in Southern Copper Corporation should carefully consider the following risk factors. General Risks Relating to Our Business Our financial performance is highly dependent on the price of copper and the other metals we produce. Our financial performance is significantly affected by the market prices of the metals that we produce, particularly the market prices of copper, molybdenum, zinc and silver. Historically, these prices have been subject to wide fluctuations and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including international economic and political conditions, levels of supply and demand, the availability and costs of substitutes, inventory levels maintained by users, actions of participants in the commodities markets and currency exchange rates. In addition, the market prices of copper and certain other metals have on occasion been subject to rapid short-term changes. The table below provides the sales value of our products as a percentage of our total net sales value. Year Ended December 31, Product 2012 2011 2010 Copper 77.0 % 76.7 % 72.7 % Molybdenum 6.8 % 8.0 % 13.3 % Silver 7.4 % 7.2 % 6.0 % Zinc 2.9 % 3.1 % 4.1 % Other by-products 5.9 % 5.0 % 3.9 % See also historical average price of our products on Item 1 Business caption “Metals prices.” We cannot predict whether metals prices will rise or fall in the future. Future declines in metals prices and, in particular, copper or molybdenum prices, will have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition, and we might, in very adverse market conditions, consider curtailing or modifying certain of our mining and processing operations. Changes in the level of demand for our products could adversely affect our product sales. Our revenue is dependent on the level of industrial and consumer demand for the concentrates and refined and semi-refined metal products we sell. Changes in technology, industrial processes and consumer habits may affect the level of that demand to the extent that changes increase or decrease the need for our metal products. A change in demand, including any change resulting from economic slow-downs or recessions, could impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our actual reserves may not conform to our current estimates of our ore deposits and we depend on our ability to replenish ore reserves for our long-term viability. There is a degree of uncertainty attributable to the calculation of reserves. Until reserves are actually mined and processed, the quantity of ore and grades must be considered as estimates only. The proven and probable ore reserves data included in this report are estimates prepared by us based on evaluation methods generally used in the mining industry. We may be required in the future to revise our reserves estimates based on our actual production. We cannot assure you that our actual reserves conform to geological, metallurgical or other expectations or that the estimated volume and grade of ore will be recovered. Market prices of our metals, increased production costs, reduced recovery rates, short-term operating factors, royalty charges and other factors may render proven and probable reserves uneconomic to exploit and may result in revisions of reserves data from time to time. Reserves data are not indicative of future results of operations. Our reserves are depleted as we mine. We depend on our ability to replenish our ore reserves for our long-term viability. We use several strategies to replenish and increase our ore reserves, including exploration and investment in properties located near our existing mine sites and investing in technology that could extend the life of a mine by allowing us to cost-effectively process ore types that were previously considered uneconomic. Acquisitions may also contribute to increase ore reserves and we review potential acquisition opportunities on a regular basis. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue with our strategy to replenish reserves indefinitely. 15 Table of Contents Our business requires levels of capital expenditures which we may not be able to maintain. Our business is capital intensive. Specifically, the exploration and exploitation of copper and other metal reserves, mining, smelting and refining costs, the maintenance of machinery and equipment and compliance with laws and regulations require significant capital expenditures. We must continue to invest capital to maintain or to increase the amount of copper reserves that we exploit and the amount of copper and other metals we produce. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our production levels to generate sufficient cash, or that we have access to sufficient financing to continue our exploration, exploitation and refining activities at or above present levels. Restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness and the indebtedness of our Minera Mexico subsidiary may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. Our financing instruments and those of our Minera Mexico subsidiary include financial and other restrictive covenants that, among other things, limit our and Minera Mexico’s abilities to incur additional debt and sell assets. If either we or our Minera Mexico subsidiary do not comply with these obligations, we could be in default under the applicable agreements which, if not addressed or waived, could require repayment of the indebtedness immediately. Our Minera Mexico subsidiary is further limited by the terms of its outstanding notes, which also restrict the Company’s applicable incurrence of debt and liens. In addition, future credit facilities may contain limitations on our incurrence of additional debt and liens, on our ability to dispose of assets, or on our ability to pay dividends to our common stockholders. Applicable law restricts the payment of dividends from our Minera Mexico subsidiary to us. Our subsidiary, Minera Mexico, is a Mexican company and, as such, may pay dividends only out of net income that has been approved by the shareholders. Shareholders must also approve the actual dividend payment, after mandatory legal reserves have been created and losses for prior fiscal years have been satisfied. As a result, these legal constraints may limit the ability of Minera Mexico to pay dividends to us, which in turn, may have an impact on our ability to pay stockholder dividends or to service debt. Our operations are subject to risks, some of which are not insurable. The business of mining, smelting and refining copper, zinc and other metals is subject to a number of risks and hazards, including industrial accidents, labor disputes, unusual or unexpected geological conditions, changes in the regulatory environment, environmental hazards and weather and other natural phenomena, including earthquakes. Such occurrences could result in damage to, or destruction of, mining operations resulting in monetary losses and possible legal liability. In particular, surface and underground mining and related processing activities present inherent risks of injury to personnel and damage to equipment. We maintain insurance against many of these and other risks, which may not provide adequate coverage in certain circumstances. Insurance against certain risks, including certain liabilities for environmental damage or hazards as a result of exploration and production, is not generally available to us or other companies within the mining industry. Nevertheless recent environmental legal initiatives have considered future regulations regarding environmental damage insurance. In case such regulations come into force, we will have to analyze the need to obtain such insurance. We do not have, and do not intend to obtain, political risk insurance. These or other uninsured events may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Deliveries under our copper sales agreements can be suspended or cancelled by our customers in certain cases. Under our sales agreements, we or our customers may suspend or cancel delivery of copper during a period of force majeure. Events of force majeure under these agreements include acts of nature, labor strikes, fires, floods, wars, transportation delays, government actions or other events that are beyond the control of the parties. Any suspension or cancellation by our customers of deliveries under our sales contracts that are not replaced by deliveries under new contracts or sales on the spot market would reduce our cash flow and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The copper mining industry is highly competitive. We face competition from other copper mining and producing companies around the world. We cannot assure you that competition will not adversely affect us in the future. 16 Table of Contents In addition, mines have limited lives and, as a result, we must periodically seek to replace and expand our reserves by acquiring new properties. Significant competition exists to acquire properties producing or capable of producing copper and other metals. The mining industry has experienced significant consolidation in recent years, including consolidation among some of our main competitors, as a result of which an increased percentage of copper production is from companies that also produce other products and may, consequently, be more diversified than we are. We cannot assure you that the result of current or future consolidation in the industry will not adversely affect us. Potential changes to international trade agreements, trade concessions or other political and economic arrangements may benefit copper producers operating in countries other than Peru and Mexico, where our mining operations are currently located. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete on the basis of price or other factors with companies that in the future may benefit from favorable trading or other arrangements. Interruptions of energy supply or increases in energy costs and other production costs may adversely affect our results of operations. We require substantial amounts of fuel oil, electricity and other resources for our operations. Fuel, gas and power costs constituted approximately 34.8% and 37.0% of our total production cost in 2012 and 2011, respectively. We rely upon third parties for our supply of the energy resources consumed in our operations. The prices for and availability of energy resources may be subject to change or curtailment, respectively, due to, among other things, new laws or regulations, imposition of new taxes or tariffs, interruptions in production by suppliers, worldwide price levels and market conditions. Disruptions in energy supply or increases in costs of energy resources or increases of other production costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Shortages of water supply, critical parts, equipment and skilled labor may adversely affect our operations and development projects. Our mining operations require significant quantities of water for mining, ore processing and related support facilities. Although each operation currently has sufficient water rights to cover its operational demands, the loss of some or all water rights for any of our mines or operations, in whole or in part, or shortages of water to which we have rights could require us to curtail or shut down mining production and could prevent us from pursuing expansion opportunities. Additionally, we have not yet secured adequate water rights to support all of our announced expansion projects, and our inability to secure those rights could prevent us from pursuing some of those opportunities. In addition, future shortages of critical parts, equipment and skilled labor could adversely affect our operations and development projects. Our results and financial condition are affected by global and local market conditions. We are subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in domestic and global economic and political conditions. Our industry is cyclical by nature and fluctuates with economic cycles, including the current global economic instability. The weakness in the global economy has been marked by, among other adverse factors, lower levels of consumer and corporate confidence, decreased business investment and consumer spending, increased unemployment, reduced income and asset values in many areas, currency volatility and limited availability of credit and access to capital. If the United States and the world-wide economic recovery continues to be weak or deteriorates or if Chinese economic growth weakens, it could have an impact on our business and our financial condition. We cannot predict if the administrative and legislative actions taken in the United States and elsewhere in the world to address this situation will be successful in reducing the severity or duration of the economic instability. The continuation or intensification of the slow global economic recovery and the sovereign debt crisis in Europe or elsewhere may prompt banks to limit or deny lending to us or to our customers, which may have an adverse effect on our liquidity and on our ability to carry out our announced capital investment programs. Additionally, concerns over the slow recovery in the United States and elsewhere in the world may prompt our customers to slow down or reduce the purchase of our products. We may experience longer sales cycles, difficulty in collecting sales proceeds, and lower prices for our products. A change in the demand of our products could impact our results of operations and financial condition. We cannot provide any assurance that any of these events will not 17 Table of Contents have a material adverse effect on market conditions, prices of our securities, our ability to obtain financing, and our results of operations and financial condition. Environmental, health and safety laws, regulatory response to climate change, and other regulations may increase our costs of doing business, restrict our operations or result in operational delays. Our exploration, mining, milling, smelting and refining activities are subject to a number of Peruvian and Mexican laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, as well as certain industry technical standards. Additional matters subject to regulation include, but are not limited to, concession fees, transportation, production, water use and discharge, power use and generation, use and storage of explosives, surface rights, housing and other facilities for workers, reclamation, taxation, labor standards, mine safety and occupational health. We are required to comply with occupational health and safety laws and regulations in Peru and Mexico where our operations are subject to periodic inspections by the relevant governmental authorities. These laws and regulations govern, among others, health and safety work place conditions, including high risk labor and the handling, storage and disposal of chemical and other hazardous substances. We believe our operations are in compliance in all material respects with applicable health and safety laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate. Compliance with these laws and regulations and new or existing regulations that may be applicable to us in the future could increase our operating costs and adversely affect our financial results of operations and cash flows. We regularly monitor occupational health and safety performance and compliance through programs, reports and activities at our operations. Accidents are reported to Mexican and Peruvian authorities as required. In 2012, we had three fatalities in Mexico, three contractor employees and three fatalities in Peru, two Company employees and one contractor employee. In 2011, we had one fatality in Mexico, one contractor employee, and three fatalities in Peru, two Company employees and one contractor employee. The amounts paid to the Mexican and Peruvian authorities for reportable accidents did not have a material impact on our results. Under Mexican and Peruvian law penalties and fines for safety violations are generally monetary, but in certain cases may lead to the temporary or permanent shutdown of the affected facility or the suspension or revocation of permits or licenses. In 2012 and 2011, we were not subject to material penalties or sanctions and we did not experience any shutdowns of our work areas. Also, violation of security and safety laws and regulations in our Peruvian operations can be considered a crime, with penalties of up to 10 years of prison. Environmental regulations in Peru and Mexico have become increasingly stringent over the last decade and we have been required to dedicate more time and money to compliance and remediation activities. Furthermore, Mexican authorities have become more rigorous and strict in enforcing Mexican environmental laws. We expect additional laws and regulations will be enacted over time with respect to environmental matters. The principal legislation applicable to the Company’s Mexican operations is the Federal General Law of Ecological Balance and Environmental Protection (the “General Law”), which is enforced by the Federal Bureau of Environmental Protection (“PROFEPA”). PROFEPA monitors compliance with environmental legislation and enforces Mexican environmental laws, regulations and official standards. PROFEPA may initiate administrative proceedings against companies that violate environmental laws, which in the most extreme cases may result in the temporary or permanent closing of non-complying facilities, the revocation of operating licenses and/or other sanctions or fines. Also, according to the federal criminal code, PROFEPA must inform corresponding authorities regarding environmental non-compliance. On January 28, 2011, Article 180 of the General Law was amended. This amendment, gives an individual or entity the ability to contest administrative acts, including environmental authorizations, permits or concessions granted, without the need to demonstrate the actual existence of harm to the environment, natural resources, flora, fauna or human health, because it will be sufficient to argue that the harm may be caused. As a result of the amendment, more legal actions supported or sponsored by non-governmental groups, interested in halting projects, and not necessarily in protecting the rights of affected communities may be filed against companies operating in all industrial sectors, including the mining sector. In addition, on August 30, 2011, amendments to the Civil Federal Procedures Code (“CFPC”) were published in the Official Gazette and are now in force. These amendments establish three categories of collective actions, by means of which 30 or more people claiming injury derived from environmental, consumer protection, financial services and economic competition issues will be considered to be sufficient in order to have a legitimate interest to seek through a civil procedure restitution or 18 Table of Contents economic compensation or suspension of the activities from which the alleged injury derived. The amendments to the CFPC may result in more litigation, with plaintiffs seeking remedies, including suspension of the activities alleged to cause harm. On December 5, 2011, the Mexican Senate Chamber approved the Environmental Liability Federal Law, which establishes general guidelines in order to determine which environmental actions will be considered to cause environmental harm that will give rise to administrative responsibilities (remediation or compensations) and criminal responsibilities. Also economic fines could be established. This initiative has been returned to the lower chamber for discussion and voting. The law will be in force once approved by the lower chamber and signed by the President. In 2003 and 2005, Peruvian environmental laws imposing closure and remediation obligations on the mining industry were enacted. Additionally, future changes to environmental laws and regulations could increase the extent of reclamation and remediation work required to be performed by us. Any such increases in future costs could materially impact the amounts charged to operations for reclamation and remediation. In 2012, we decided to recognize an estimated asset retirement obligation for our mining properties in Mexico as part of our environmental commitment. Even though, there is currently no enacted law, statute, ordinance, or written or oral contract requiring us to carry out mine closure and environmental remediation activities, we considered that a constructive obligation presently exists based on, among other things, the remediation experience from the closure of the San Luis Potosi smelter in 2010. We further discuss these obligations in our Note 9 “Asset Retirement Obligation” to our consolidated financial statements. Moreover, our Mexican operations are also subject to the environmental agreement entered into by Mexico, the United States and Canada in connection with the North American Free Trade Agreement. This agreement, as well as new international treaties regarding human rights, contains environmental provisions and initiatives. We believe our operations are in material compliance with all environmental laws and regulations within the areas we operate. Regulatory response to climate change, restrictions, caps, taxes, or other controls on emissions of greenhouse gasses, including on emissions from the combustion of carbon-based fuels, could significantly increase our operating costs. Restrictions on emissions could also affect our customers. A number of governments or governmental bodies have introduced or are contemplating regulatory changes in response to the potential impacts of climate change. These regulatory initiatives will be either voluntary or mandatory and may impact our operations directly or through our suppliers or customers. The potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain, and would be particular to the geographic circumstances of our facilities. These may include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, changing sea levels, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperatures. These effects may adversely impact the cost, production and financial performance of our operations. The development of more stringent environmental protection programs in Peru and Mexico and in relevant trade agreements could impose constraints and additional costs on our operations and require us to make significant capital expenditures in the future. We cannot assure you that current or future legislative, regulatory or trade developments will not have an adverse effect on our business, properties, operating results, financial condition or prospects. Our metals exploration efforts are highly speculative in nature and may be unsuccessful. Metals exploration is highly speculative in nature, involves many risks and is frequently unsuccessful. Once mineralization is discovered, it may take a number of years from the initial phases of drilling before production is possible, during which time the economic feasibility of production may change. Substantial expenditures are required to establish proven and probable ore reserves through drilling, to determine metallurgical processes to extract the metals from the ore and, in the case of new properties, to construct mining and processing facilities. We cannot assure you that our exploration programs will result in the expansion or replacement of current production with new proven and probable ore reserves. Development projects have no operating history upon which to base estimates of proven and probable ore reserves and estimates of future cash operating costs. Estimates are, to a large extent, based upon the interpretation of geological data obtained from drill holes and other sampling techniques, and feasibility studies that derive estimates of cash operating costs based upon anticipated tonnage and grades of ore to be mined and processed, the configuration of the ore body, expected recovery rates of the mineral from the ore, comparable facility and equipment operating costs, anticipated climatic conditions and other factors. As a result, actual cash operating costs and economic returns based upon development of 19 Table of Contents proven and probable ore reserves may differ significantly from those originally estimated. Moreover, significant decreases in actual or expected prices may mean reserves, once found, will be uneconomical to produce. Our profits may be negatively affected by currency exchange rate fluctuations. The U.S. dollar is our functional currency and our revenues are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. However, portions of our operating costs are denominated in Peruvian nuevos soles and Mexican pesos. Accordingly, when inflation in Peru or Mexico increases without a corresponding devaluation of the nuevo sol or the Mexican peso our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. To manage the volatility related to the risk of currency rate fluctuations, we may enter into forward exchange contracts. We cannot assure you, however, that currency fluctuations will not have an impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our assets, earnings and cash flows are influenced by various currencies due to the geographic diversity of our sales and the countries in which we operate. As some of our costs are incurred in currencies other than our functional currency, the U.S. dollar, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may have a significant impact on our financial results. These costs principally include electricity, labor, maintenance, local contractors and fuel. For the year ended December 31, 2012, a substantial portion of our costs were denominated in a currency other than U.S. dollars. Operating costs are influenced by the currencies of the countries where our mines and processing plants are located and also by those currencies in which the costs of equipment and services are determined. The Peruvian nuevo sol, the Mexican peso and the U.S. dollar are the currencies which most influence our costs. Further, in the past there has been a strong correlation between copper prices and the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar. A strengthening of the U.S. dollar may therefore be accompanied by lower copper prices, which would negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may be adversely affected by challenges relating to slope stability. Our open-pit mines get deeper as we mine them, presenting certain geotechnical challenges including the possibility of slope failure. If we are required to decrease pit slope angles or provide additional road access to prevent such a failure, our stated reserves could be negatively affected. Further, hydrological conditions relating to pit slopes, renewal of material displaced by slope failures and increased stripping requirements could also negatively affect our stated reserves. We have taken actions in order to maintain slope stability, but we cannot assure you that we will not have to take additional action in the future or that our actions taken to date will be sufficient. Unexpected failure or additional requirements to prevent slope failure may negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition, as well as have the effect of diminishing our stated ore reserves. We may be adversely affected by labor disputes. In the last several years we have experienced a number of strikes or other labor disruptions that have had an adverse impact on our operations and operating results. As of December 31, 2012, unions represented approximately 69% of our workforce. Currently, we have labor agreements in effect for our Mexican operations. At our Peruvian operations, collective bargaining agreements with the eight unions expired in 2012. During 2012, we started negotiations with all the eight unions. During the first two months of 2013, we have signed three-year agreements with all the unions. The agreements include, among other things, annual salary increases of 6.5%, 5% and 5% for each of the three years, respectively, for all workers. In June 2010, a work stoppage at our Buenavista mine was finally resolved after a period of three years. The mine property was rehabilitated and production was fully restored in the second quarter of 2011. Additionally, our Taxco and San Martin mines have been on strike since July 2007. It is expected that operations at these mines will remain suspended until these labor issues are resolved. We cannot assure you when these strikes will be settled, or that in the future we will not experience strikes or other labor related work stoppages that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Our new mining or metal production projects may be subject to additional costs due to community actions and other factors. Our exploration, mining, milling, smelting and refining activities are subject to Peruvian and Mexican laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, as well as certain industry technical standards. As in any other country, environmental regulations in Peru and Mexico have become increasingly stringent over the last decades. In accordance with mining regulations in the countries where we operate, we have to submit an environmental impact assessment (“EIA”) for all our new mining projects or expansions of existing mining operations and/or facilities. The EIA is then discussed at various open hearings with the local communities, where they have the opportunity to voice their opinion and/or concerns. In Peru, the Ministry of Energy and Mines (“MINEM”) usually requires the mining companies to address the questions of the stakeholders. MINEM is the entity that approves the EIA and the execution of mining projects. In December 2012, the Servicio Nacional de Certificacion Ambiental para Inversiones Sostenible (“SENACE”) was created, and this governmental organization is in the process to assume responsibility to approve all EIA’s related to the exploitation and processing phases. Tia Maria, a Peruvian investment project of over $1.0 billion was suspended by governmental action in April 2011 in light of protests and disruptions carried out by a small group of activists who alleged, among other things, that the project would result in severe environmental contamination and the diversion of agricultural water resources. We are preparing a new EIA study which we believe will take into account local community concerns and new government guidance. We consider that this new EIA process will alleviate all the concerns previously raised by the Tia Maria project’s neighboring communities, provide them with an independent source of information and reaffirm the validity of the Company’s assessment of the project. We are confident that this initiative will have a positive effect on our stakeholders and will allow us to obtain the approval for the development of the 120,000 ton annual production copper project. We have legal and valid title to the Tia Maria mining concessions and the over-lapping surface land in the area. None of above noted activities have in any way challenged, revoked, impaired or annulled our legal rights to the Tia Maria mining concessions and/or the over-lapping surface land titles acquired in the past. All our property rights on these areas are in full force. Toquepala concentrator expansion: As a result of protests from some community groups the approval process for the EIA of this project has been delayed. These groups raised concerns related to water usage and pollution. As a result of these issues, the Peruvian government during 2012 started discussions with the local communities and the regional authorities to resolve this impasse. We participated also in a working group with the local and regional authorities and communities to define Company support for their social and community programs. On February 8, 2013, we reached a final agreement with the province of Candarave, one of the three provinces neighboring our Toquepala unit, which commits us to funding S/.255 million (approximately $98 million) for community development projects in the province. This agreement is contingent upon receiving approval for the project. We expect to continue working with the Candarave province and the other two provinces neighboring Toquepala to resolve all open issues during 2013. The project will not use additional fresh water and therefore will not affect the availability of this resource for community or agricultural use. In fact, water currently used by the Company comes from deep wells drilled into the Capulline formation aquifer and does not take water from the population and agricultural communities of Tacna and Moquegua. As we indicated above for the Toquepala expansion project, it appears that it is becoming a part of the Peruvian mining environment, that in order to obtain acceptance from local communities for projects in their localities, demands for substantial investments in community infrastructure and upgrades must be met in order to proceed with the mining projects. We cannot assure that we will not continue to incur additional costs for community infrastructure and upgrades in order to obtain the approval of current or future mining projects. We are confident that we will continue with the Tia Maria and the Toquepala projects. However, these projects, or any other project which we may undertake in the future, may be subject to additional costs as a result of delays due to actions by members of the local community or other factors. 21 Table of Contents We are controlled by Grupo Mexico, which exercises control over our affairs and policies and whose interests may be different from yours. At December 31, 2012, Grupo Mexico owned indirectly 81.3% of our capital stock. Certain of our and Minera Mexico’s officers and directors are also directors and/or officers of Grupo Mexico and/or of its affiliates. We cannot assure you that the interests of Grupo Mexico will not conflict with ours. Grupo Mexico has the ability to determine the outcome of substantially all matters submitted for a vote to our stockholders and thus exercises control over our business policies and affairs, including the following: · the composition of our Board of Directors and, as a result, any determinations of our Board with respect to our business direction and policy, including the appointment and removal of our officers; · determinations with respect to mergers and other business combinations, including those that may result in a change of control; · whether dividends are paid or other distributions are made and the amount of any dividends or other distributions; · sales and dispositions of our assets; and · the amount of debt financing that we incur. We cannot assure you that increased financial obligations of Grupo Mexico or AMC resulting from financings or for other reasons will not result in our parent corporations obtaining loans, increased dividends or other funding from us. In addition, we have in the past engaged in, and expect to continue to engage in, transactions with Grupo Mexico and its other affiliates which are related party transactions and may present conflicts of interest. For additional information regarding the share ownership of, and our relationships with, Grupo Mexico and its affiliates, see Note 18 “Related Party Transactions.” We may not continue to pay a significant amount of our net income as cash dividends on our common stock in the future. We have distributed a significant amount of our net income as dividends since 1996. Our dividend practice is subject to change at the discretion of our Board of Directors at any time. The amount that we pay in dividends is subject to a number of factors, including our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, tax considerations, future prospects, legal restrictions, contractual restrictions in credit agreements, limitations imposed by the government of Peru, Mexico or other countries where we have significant operations and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant. In light of our capital investment program and the current global economic conditions, it is possible that future dividend distributions will be reduced from the levels of recent years. International Risks We are a company with substantial assets located outside of the United States. We conduct production operations in Peru and Mexico and exploration activities in these countries as well as in Chile, Argentina and Ecuador. Accordingly, in addition to the usual risks associated with conducting business in foreign countries, our business may be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in each of these countries. Such risks include possible expropriation or nationalization of property, confiscatory taxes or royalties, possible foreign exchange controls, changes in the national policy toward foreign investors, etc. Our insurance does not cover most losses caused by the above described risks. Consequently, our production, development and exploration activities in these countries could be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, some of which could materially and adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Risks Associated with Doing Business in Peru and Mexico There is uncertainty as to the termination and renewal of our mining concessions. Under the laws of Peru and Mexico, mineral resources belong to the state and government concessions are required in both countries to explore for or exploit mineral reserves. In Peru, our mineral rights derive from concessions from the Peruvian Ministry of Energy and Mines for our exploration, exploitation, extraction and/or production operations. In Mexico, our mineral rights derive from concessions granted, on a discretionary basis, by the Ministry of Economy, pursuant to the Mexican mining law and regulations thereunder. Mining concessions in both Peru and Mexico may be terminated if the obligations of the concessionaire are not satisfied. In Peru, we are obligated to pay certain fees for our mining concession. In Mexico, we are obligated, among other things, to explore or exploit the relevant concession, to pay any relevant fees, to comply with all environmental and safety standards, to provide information to the Ministry of Economy and to allow inspections by the Ministry of Economy. Any termination or unfavorable modification of the terms of one or more of our concessions, or failure to obtain renewals of such concessions subject to renewal or extensions, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and prospects. Peruvian economic and political conditions may have an adverse impact on our business. A significant part of our operations are conducted in Peru. Accordingly, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be affected by changes in economic or other policies of the Peruvian government or other political, regulatory or economic developments in Peru. During the past several decades, Peru has had a history of political instability that has included military coups and a succession of regimes with differing policies and programs. Past governments have frequently intervened in the nation’s economy and social structure. Among other actions, past governments have imposed controls on prices, exchange rates and local and foreign investments, as well as limitations on imports, have restricted the ability of companies to dismiss employees, have expropriated private sector assets (including mining companies) and have prohibited the remittance of profits to foreign investors. In the last 10 years Peru has had political and social stability. The Peruvian government’s economic policies reduced inflation and the Peruvian economy has experienced significant growth in recent years. In October 2010, Peru had regional and mayoral elections and in June 2011 Peru elected a new president. Because we have significant operations in Peru, we cannot provide any assurance that political developments and economic conditions in Peru and/or other factors will not have a material adverse effect on market conditions, prices of our securities, our ability to obtain financing, and our results of operations and financial condition. Mexican economic and political conditions, as well as drug-related violence, may have an adverse impact on our business. The Mexican economy is highly sensitive to economic developments in the United States, mainly because of its high level of exports to the United States market. The global financial crisis and the subsequent downturn in the United States economy caused real gross domestic product in Mexico to fall 6.6% in 2009. Mexico’s policy measures in response to the crisis and its prior economic performance have helped the economy begin a recovery. Gross domestic product grew by 3.8% and 5% in 2012 and 2011, respectively, and is projected to grow by at least 3.5% in 2013. Other possible risks are increases in taxes on the mining sector or higher royalties. As has occurred in other metal producing countries, the mining industry may be perceived as a source of additional fiscal revenue. Regarding the political situation in Mexico, security institutions are under significant stress, as a result of drug-related violence. This situation creates potential risks especially for transportation of minerals and finished products, which affect a small part of our production. However, drug-related violence has had a limited impact on our operations as it has tended to concentrate outside our areas of production. If this were to change, the risk to our operations might increase. On July 1, 2012, voters elected a new president and members of the chambers of deputies and senators in Mexico for a six-year period. 23 Table of Contents Because we have significant operations in Mexico, we cannot provide any assurance that political developments and economic conditions, as well as drug-related violence, in Mexico will not have a material adverse effect on market conditions, prices of our securities, our ability to obtain financing, and our results of operations and financial condition. Peruvian inflation and fluctuations in the nuevo sol exchange rate may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Over the past several years, Peru has experienced one of its best economic periods. In Peru economic conditions have improved significantly in the last years. Inflation in 2012, 2011 and 2010 was 2.6%, 4.8% and 2.1%, respectively. The value of the nuevo sol has appreciated against the U.S. dollar, 5.4% in 2012, 4.0% in 2011 and 2.8% in 2010. Our revenues are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars and our operating expenses are partly denominated in U.S. dollars. If inflation in Peru were to increase without a corresponding depreciation of the nuevo sol relative to the U.S. dollar, our financial position and results of operations, and the market price of our common stock, could be affected. Although the Peruvian government’s economic policy reduced inflation and the economy has experienced significant growth in recent years, we cannot assure you that inflation will not increase from its current level or that such growth will continue in the future at similar rates or at all. Additionally the global financial economic crisis, could negatively affect the Peruvian economy. Mexican inflation, restrictive exchange control policies and fluctuations in the peso exchange rate may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Although all of our Mexican operations’ sales of metals are priced and invoiced in U.S. dollars, a substantial portion of our Mexican operations’ cost of sales are denominated in pesos. Accordingly, when inflation in Mexico increases without a corresponding depreciation of the peso the net income generated by our Mexican operations is adversely affected. The annual inflation rate in Mexico was 3.6% in 2012, 3.8% in 2011 and 4.4% in 2010. The Bank of Mexico has publicly announced a target of 3.8% inflation for 2013. At the same time, the peso has been subject in the past to significant volatility, which may not have been proportionate to the inflation rate and may not be proportionate to the inflation rate in the future. The value of the peso decreased by 6.9% in 2012, decreased by 13.1% in 2011, and increased by 5.4% in 2010. The Mexican government does not currently restrict the ability of Mexican companies or individuals to convert pesos into dollars or other currencies. While we do not expect the Mexican government to impose any restriction or exchange control policies in the future, it is an area we closely monitor. We cannot assure you the Mexican government will maintain its current policies with regard to the peso or that the peso’s value will not fluctuate significantly in the future. The imposition of exchange control policies could impair Minera Mexico’s ability to obtain imported goods and to meet its U.S. dollar-denominated obligations and could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Developments in other emerging market countries and in the United States may adversely affect the prices of our common stock and our debt securities. The market value of securities of companies with significant operations in Peru and Mexico is, to varying degrees, affected by economic and market conditions in other emerging market countries. Although economic conditions in such countries may differ significantly from economic conditions in Peru or Mexico, as the case may be, investors’ reactions to developments in any of these other countries may have an adverse effect on the market value or trading price of the securities, including debt securities, of issuers that have significant operations in Peru or Mexico. In addition, in recent years economic conditions in Mexico have increasingly become correlated to U.S. economic conditions. Therefore, adverse economic conditions in the United States could also have a significant adverse effect on Mexican economic conditions, including the price of our common stock or debt securities. We cannot assure you that the market value or trading prices of our common stock and debt securities, will not be adversely affected by events in the United States or elsewhere, including in emerging market countries. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 24 Table of Contents 