D. RISK FACTORS A. Risks Related to Indonesia 1. Political and Social Risks Current political and social events in Indonesia may adversely affect our business Since 1998, Indonesia has experienced a process of democratic change, resulting in political and social events that have highlighted the unpredictable nature of Indonesia’s changing political landscape. In 1999, Indonesia conducted its first free elections for parliament and president. Indonesia also has many political parties, without any one party holding a clear majority. Due to these factors, Indonesia has, from time to time, experienced political instability, as well as general social and civil unrest. For example, since 2000, thousands of Indonesians have participated in demonstrations in Jakarta and other Indonesian cities both for and against former President Abdurahman Wahid, former President Megawati, and former President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono as well as in response to specific issues, including fuel subsidy reductions, privatization of state assets, anti-corruption measures, decentralization and provincial autonomy and the American-led military campaigns in Afghanistan and Iraq. Although these demonstrations were generally peaceful, some turned violent. Indonesia announced in November 2014, and implemented with effect from January 1, 2015, a fixed diesel subsidy of Rp1,000 per liter and scrapped the gasoline subsidy. Although the implementation did not result in any significant violence or political instability, the announcement and implementation also coincided with a period where crude oil prices had dropped very significantly in 2014. There can be no assurance that future increases in crude oil and fuel prices will not result in political and social instability. Separatist movements and clashes between religious and ethnic groups have also resulted in social and civil unrest in parts of Indonesia, such as Aceh in the past and in Papua currently, where there have been clashes between supporters of those separatist movements and the Indonesian military, including continued activity in Papua, by separatist rebels that has led to violent incidents. There have also been inter-ethnic conflicts, for example in Kalimantan, as well as inter-religious conflict such as in Maluku and Poso. Labor issues have also come to the fore in Indonesia. In 2003, the Government enacted a new labor law that gave employees greater protections. Occasional efforts to reduce these protections have prompted an upsurge in public protests as workers responded to policies that they deemed unfavorable. Indonesian elections were held in July 2014, and Joko Widodo was elected as the President of the Republic of Indonesia and sworn in on October 20, 2014. Although the April 2009, July 2009 and July 2014 elections were conducted in a peaceful manner, President Joko Widodo's governing coalition currently holds a minority of seats in parliament. In addition, the relatively closely fought 2014 presidential election, the challenge from the losing candidate in the 2014 election and the delay of the conclusion of the election result, as well as political campaigns in Indonesia, may be indicative of the degree of political and social division in Indonesia. There can be no assurance that social and civil disturbances will not occur in the future and on a wider scale, or that any such disturbances will not, directly or indirectly, materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Terrorist activities in Indonesia could destabilize Indonesia, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and the market price of our securities There have been a number of terrorist incidents in Indonesia, including the May 2005 bombing in Central Sulawesi, the Bali bombings in October 2002 and 2005 and the bombings at the JW Marriot and Ritz Carlton hotels in Jakarta in July 2009. Although the Government has successfully countered some terrorist activities in recent years and arrested several of those suspected of being involved in these incidents, terrorist incidents may continue and, if serious or widespread, might have a material adverse effect on investment and confidence in, and the performance of, the Indonesian economy and may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects and the market price of our securities. -13- Table of Content 2. Macro Economic Risks Negative changes in global, regional or Indonesian economic activity could adversely affect our business Changes in the Indonesian, regional and global economies can affect our performance. Two significant events in the past that impacted Indonesia’s economy were the Asian economic crisis of 1997 and the global economic crisis which started in 2008. The 1997 crisis was characterized in Indonesia by, among others, currency depreciation, a significant decline in real gross domestic product, high interest rates, social unrest and extraordinary political developments. While the global economic crisis that arose from the subprime mortgage crisis in the US did not affect Indonesia's economy as severely as in 1997, it still put Indonesia’s economy under pressure. The global financial markets have also experienced volatility as a result of the downgrade of US sovereign debt in 2012 and concerns over the debt crisis in the Eurozone. Uncertainty over the outcome of the Eurozone governments’ financial support programs and worries about sovereign finances generally are ongoing. If the crisis becomes protracted, or extends to Asia and Indonesia, we can provide no assurance that it will not have a material and adverse effect on Indonesia’s economic growth and consequently on our business. Adverse economic conditions could result in less business activity, less disposable income available for consumers to spend and reduced consumer purchasing power, which may reduce demand for communication services, including our services, which in turn would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. There is no assurance that there will not be a recurrence of economic instability in future, or that, should it occur, it will not have an impact on the performance of our business. Fluctuations in the value of the Indonesian Rupiah may materially and adversely affect us Our functional currency is the Rupiah. One of the most important effects of the Asian economic crisis that affected Indonesia was the depreciation and volatility in the value of the Indonesian Rupiah as measured against other currencies, such as the US Dollar. The Rupiah continues to experience significant volatility. From 2010 to 2014, the Indonesian Rupiah per US Dollar exchange rate ranged from a high of Rp8,508 per US Dollar to a low of Rp12,440 per US Dollar. As a result, we recorded foreign exchange losses of Rp189 billion in 2012, Rp249 billion in 2013 and Rp14 billion in 2014. As of December 31, 2014, the Indonesian Rupiah per US Dollar exchange rate stood at Rp12,440 per US Dollar compared to Rp12,189 per US Dollar as of December 31, 2013. To the extent that the Indonesian Rupiah depreciates further from the exchange rate as of December 2014, our US Dollar-denominated obligations under our accounts payable and procurements payable, as well as payments for foreign currency-denominated loans payable and bonds payable, would increase in Indonesian Rupiah terms. A depreciation of the Rupiah would also increase the Rupiah cost of our capital expenditures as most of our capital expenditures are priced in or with reference to foreign currencies, mainly US Dollars and Euros, while a substantial majority of our revenues are in Rupiah. Such depreciation of the Indonesian Rupiah would result in losses on foreign exchange translation, significantly affect our total expenses and net income and reduce the US Dollar amounts of dividends received by holders of our ADSs. We can give no assurances that we will be able to control or manage our exchange rate risk successfully in the future or that we will not be adversely affected by our exposure to exchange rate risk. In addition, while the Indonesian Rupiah has generally been freely convertible and transferable, from time to time, Bank Indonesia has intervened in the currency exchange markets in furtherance of its policies, either by selling Indonesian Rupiah or by using its foreign currency reserves to purchase Indonesian Rupiah. We can give no assurances that the current floating exchange rate policy of Bank Indonesia will not be modified or that the Government will take additional action to stabilize, maintain or increase the Indonesian Rupiah’s value, or that any of these actions, if taken, will be successful. Modification of the current floating exchange rate policy could result in significantly higher domestic interest rates, liquidity shortages, capital or exchange controls or the withholding of additional financial assistance by multinational lenders. This could result in a reduction of economic activity, an economic recession, loan defaults or declining subscriber usage of our services, and as a result, we may also face difficulties in funding our capital expenditures and in implementing our business strategy. Any of the foregoing consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Downgrades of credit ratings of the Government or Indonesian companies could adversely affect our business As of the date of this Annual Report, Indonesia’s sovereign foreign currency long-term debt was rated “Baa3” by Moody’s, “BB+” by Standard & Poor’s and “BBB” by Fitch Ratings. Indonesia's short-term foreign currency debt is rated “B” by Standard & Poor’s and “F3” by Fitch Ratings. -14- Table of Content We can give no assurances that Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s or Fitch Ratings, will not change or downgrade the credit ratings of Indonesia. Any such downgrade could have an adverse impact on liquidity in the Indonesian financial markets, the ability of the Government and Indonesian companies, including us, to raise additional financing and the interest rates and other commercial terms at which such additional financing is available. Interest rates on our floating rate Rupiah-denominated debt would also likely increase. Such events could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects and/or the market price of our securities. 3. Disaster Risks Indonesia is vulnerable to natural disasters and events beyond our control, which could adversely affect our business and operating results Many parts of Indonesia, including areas where we operate, are prone to natural disasters such as floods, lightning strikes, typhoons, earthquakes, tsunamis, volcanic eruptions, fires, droughts, power outages and other events beyond our control. The Indonesian archipelago is one of the most volcanically active regions in the world as it is located in the convergence zone of three major lithospheric plates. It is subject to significant seismic activity that can lead to destructive earthquakes, tsunamis or tidal waves. Flash floods and more widespread flooding also occur regularly during the rainy season from November to April. Cities, especially Jakarta, are frequently subject to severe localized flooding which can result in major disruption and occasionally, fatalities. Landslides regularly occur in rural areas during the wet season. From time to time, natural disasters have killed, affected or displaced large numbers of people and damaged our equipment. These events in the past, and may in the future, disrupt our business activities, cause damage to equipment and adversely affect our financial performance and profit. For example, on September 2, 2009, an earthquake in West Java caused damage to our assets. On September 30, 2009, an earthquake in West Sumatra disrupted the provision of telecommunications services in several locations. Although our Crisis Management Team in cooperation with our employees and partners was able to restore services quickly, the earthquake caused severe damage to our assets. Although we have implemented a Business Continuity Plan (“BCP”) and a Disaster Recovery Plan (“DRP”), and test these regularly and we have insured our assets to protect from any losses attributable to natural disasters or other phenomena beyond our control, there is no assurance that the insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover the potential losses, that the premium payable for these insurance policies upon renewal will not increase substantially in the future, or that natural disasters would not significantly disrupt our operations. We cannot assure you that future natural disaster will not have a significant impact on us, Indonesia or its economy. A significant earthquake, other geological disturbance or weather-related natural disaster in any of Indonesia’s more populated cities and financial centers could severely disrupt the Indonesian economy and undermine investor confidence, thereby materially and adversely affecting our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our operations may be adversely affected by an outbreak of an infectious disease, such as avian influenza, Influenza A (H1N1) virus or other epidemics An outbreak of an infectious disease such as avian influenza, Influenza A (H1N1) or a similar epidemic, or the measures taken by the Governments of affected countries, including Indonesia, against such an outbreak, could severely disrupt the Indonesian and other economies and undermine investor confidence, thereby materially and adversely affecting our financial condition or results of operations and the market value of its securities. Moreover, our operations could be materially disrupted if our employees remained at home and away from our principal places of business for extended period of time, which would have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations and the market value of its securities. 4. Other Risks Indonesian Corporate Disclosure Standards differ in significant respects from those applicable in other countries, including the United States As an IDX and NYSE listed company, we are subject to regulatory and exchange corporate governance and reporting requirements in multiple jurisdictions. There may be less publicly-available information about Indonesian public companies, -15- Table of Content including us, than is regularly disclosed by public companies in countries with more mature securities markets. As a result, investors may not have access to the same level and type of disclosure as that available in other countries, and comparisons with other companies in other countries may not be possible in all respects. Our financial results are reported to OJK (as the successor to Bapepam-LK) in conformity with IFAS, which differs in certain significant respects from IFRS, and we distribute dividends based on profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent company and net income per share determined in reliance on IFAS In accordance with the regulations of OJK and the IDX, we are required to report our financial results to OJK in conformity with IFAS. We have provided to OJK our financial result for the financial year ended December 31, 2014, on March 6, 2015, which we furnished to the SEC on a Form 6-K dated April 2, 2015, which contains our audited Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 2014 and for the year then ended and prepared in conformity with IFAS. IFAS differs in certain significant respects from IFRS, and, as a result, there are differences between our financial results as reported under IFAS and IFRS, including profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent company and net income per share. We distribute dividends based on profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent company and net income per share determined in reliance on IFAS. Using IFAS results, our profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent company would be Rp14,205 billion and Rp14,638 billion for 2013 and 2014, respectively and our net income per share would be Rp147.42 and Rp149.83 for 2013 and 2014, respectively. Dividends declared per share were Rp102.40 for fiscal year 2013. The dividends declare per share for the year 2014 will be decided at the 2015 AGMS, scheduled for April 17, 2015. We are incorporated in Indonesia and it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process or enforce judgments, on us within the United States or to enforce judgments of a foreign court against us in Indonesia We are a limited liability company incorporated in Indonesia, operating within the framework of Indonesian laws relating to Indonesian companies with limited liability, and all of our significant assets are located in Indonesia. In addition, our Commissioners and our Directors reside in Indonesia and a substantial portion of the assets of such persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process, or enforce judgments on us or such persons within the US, or to enforce against us or such persons in the US, judgments obtained in US courts. We have been advised by Hadiputranto, Hadinoto & Partners, our Indonesian legal advisor, that judgments of US courts, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the US federal securities laws or the securities laws of any state within the US, are not enforceable in Indonesian courts, although such judgments could be admissible as non-conclusive evidence in a proceeding on the underlying claim in an Indonesian court. They have also advised that there is doubt as to whether Indonesian courts will enter judgments in original actions brought in Indonesian courts predicated solely upon the civil liability provisions of the US federal securities laws or the securities laws of any state within the US. As a result, the claimant would be required to pursue claims against us or such persons in Indonesian courts. Our controlling shareholder’s interest may differ from those of our other shareholders The Government has a controlling stake of 52.56% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock and the ability to determine the outcome of all actions requiring the approval of the shareholders. The Government also holds our one Series A Dwiwarna share, which has special voting rights and veto rights over certain matters, including the election and removal of our Directors and Commissioners. It may also use its powers as majority shareholder or under the Dwiwarna share to cause us to issue new shares, amend our Articles of Association or bring about actions to merge or dissolve us, increase or decrease our authorized capital or reduce our issued capital, or veto any of these actions. One or more of these may result in the delisting of our securities from certain exchanges. Further, through the MoCI, the Government exercises regulatory power over the Indonesian telecommunications industry. As of December 31, 2014, the Government had a 14.29% equity stake in PT Indosat Tbk. ("Indosat"), which compete with us, in fixed IDD telecommunications services, and competes in cellular services of our majority owned subsidiary, Telkomsel. The Government's stake includes the Series A Dwiwarna share which has special voting rights and veto rights over certain strategic matters under Indosat's Articles of Association, including decisions on dissolution, liquidation and bankruptcy, and also permits the Government to nominate one Director to its Board of Directors and one Commissioner to its Board of Commissioners. There may thus be instances where the Government’s interests will conflict with ours. There is no assurance that the Government will not direct opportunities to Indosat or favor Indosat when exercising regulatory power over the Indonesian telecommunications industry. If the Government were to give priority to Indosat’s business over ours or to expand its stake in Indosat, our business, financial condition, and results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. -16- Table of Content B. Risks Related to Our Business 1. Operational Risks A material failure in the continuing operations of our network, certain key systems, gateways to our network or the networks of other network operators could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects We depend to a significant degree on the uninterrupted operation of our network to provide our services. For example, we depend on access to our fixed wireline network (“PSTN”) for the operation of our fixed line network and the termination and origination of cellular telephone calls to and from fixed line telephones, and a significant portion of our cellular and international long-distance call traffic is routed through the PSTN. We also depend on access to an internet and broadband network and a cellular network. Our integrated network includes a copper access network, fiber optic access network, BTSs, switching equipment, optical and radio transmission equipment, an IP core network, satellite and application servers. In addition, we also rely on interconnection to the networks of other telecommunications operators to carry calls and data from our subscribers to the subscribers of operators both within Indonesia and overseas. We also depend on certain technologically sophisticated management information systems and other systems, such as our customer billing system, to enable us to conduct our operations. Our network, including our information systems, IT and infrastructure and the networks of other operators with whom our subscribers are interconnected, are vulnerable to damage or interruptions in operation from a variety of sources including earthquake, fire, flood, power loss, equipment failure, network software flaws, transmission cable disruption or similar events. Although we have a comprehensive business continuity plan and disaster recovery plan which we test and strive to improve, we cannot guarantee that the implementation of such plans will be completely or partially successful should any portion of network be severely damaged or interrupted. Any failure that results in an interruption of our operations or of the provision of any service, whether from operational disruption, natural disaster or otherwise, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our networks, face both potential physical and cyber security threats, such as theft, vandalism and acts intended to disrupt operations, which could adversely affect our operating results Our networks and equipment, particularly our wireline access network, face both potential physical and cyber security threats. Physical threats include theft and vandalism of our equipment and organized attacks against key infrastructure intended to disrupt operations. In addition, telecommunications companies worldwide face increasing cyber security threats as businesses become increasingly dependent on telecommunications and computer networks and adopt cloud computing technologies. Cyber security threats include gaining unauthorized access to our systems or inserting computer viruses or malicious software in our systems to misappropriate consumer data and other sensitive information, corrupt our data or disrupt our operations. Unauthorized access may also be gained through traditional means such as the theft of laptop computers, portable data devices and mobile phones and intelligence gathering on employees with access. Although we have not experienced any material successful cyber attacks to date that have affected our operations, our network and our website are frequently targeted by cyber attacks. A successful cyber attack may lead us to incur substantial costs to repair damage or restore data, implement substantial organizational changes and training to prevent future similar attacks and lost revenues and litigation costs due to misused sensitive information, and cause substantial reputational damage. We take preventive and remedial measures, including enhanced cooperation with the police, particularly in areas prone to criminal activity and regular upgrades of our data security measures. However, there is no assurance that our physical and cyber security measures will be successful. Damage to our network, equipment or data and the need to repair such damage resulting from a physical or cyber attack may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our networks face potential security threats, such as theft or vandalism, which could adversely affect our operating results. We face a number of risks relating to our internet-related services In addition to cyber security threats, because we provide connections to the internet and host websites for customers and develop internet content and applications, we may be perceived as being associated with the content carried over our network or displayed on websites that we host. We cannot and do not screen all of this content and may face litigation claims due to a perceived association with this content. These types of claims can be costly to defend, divert management resources and attention, and may damage our reputation. -17- Table of Content A revenue leakage might occur due to internal weaknesses or external factors and if this happened, it could have an adverse effect on our operating results A revenue leakage is a generic risk for all telecommunications operators. We may face revenue leakage problems or problems with collecting all the revenues to which we may be entitled, due to the possibility of weaknesses at the transactional level, delay in transaction processing, dishonest customers or other factors. We have taken some preventive measures against the possibility of revenue leakage by increasing control functions in all of our existing business process, implementing revenue assurance methods, employing adequate policies and procedures as well as implementing information systems applications to minimize revenue leakages. Nonetheless, there is no assurance that in the future there will be no significant revenue leakages or that any such leakages will not have a material adverse affect on our operating results. New technologies may adversely affect our ability to remain competitive The telecommunications industry is characterized by rapid and significant changes in technology. We may face increasing competition due to technologies currently under development or which may be developed in the future. Future development or application of new or alternative technologies, services or standards could require significant changes to our business model, the development of new products, the provision of additional services and substantial new investments by us. New products and services may be expensive to develop and may result in the introduction of additional competitors into the marketplace. We cannot accurately predict how emerging and future technological changes will affect our operations or the competitiveness of our services. Furthermore, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to effectively integrate new technologies into our existing business model. For example, due to competition and the increasing popularity of mobile cellular platforms, our fixed wireless revenues and ARPU has been declining in recent years. On June 27, 2014, we entered into a Conditional Business Transfer Agreement with Telkomsel to transfer the Flexi business, with effect from October 1, 2014, and migrated Flexi subscribers to Telkomsel. We plan to continue to operate the Flexi service until the end of 2015 or until our remaining Flexi customers have migrated to Telkomsel, if earlier. In the meantime, we continue to encourage our fixed wireless customers to enter into plans operated by Telkomsel. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in migrating our fixed wireless subscribers onto Telkomsel's mobile cellular platform, as competition from other mobile cellular providers is intense. As part of our continuing development of our TIMES business, we continue to seek to develop businesses through which we also provide content to our telecommunications subscribers. We do not yet have substantial experience as a content provider therefore we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively manage the growth of this business. We cannot assure you that our technologies will not become obsolete, or be subjected to competition from new technologies in the future, or that we will be able to acquire new technologies necessary to compete in changed circumstances on commercially acceptable terms. Our failure to react to rapid technological changes could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our satellites have limited operational life they may be damaged or destroyed during in-orbit operation or suffer launch delays or failures. The loss or reduced performance of our satellites, whether caused by equipment failure or its license being revoked, may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and ability to provide certain services Our Telkom-1 and Telkom-2 satellites have a limited operational life, currently estimated to end approximately in 2015 and 2020, respectively. A number of factors affect the operational lives of satellites, including the quality of their construction, the durability of their systems, subsystems and component parts, on-board fuel reserves, accuracy of their launch into orbit, exposure to micrometeorite storms, or other natural events in space, collision with orbital debris, or the manner in which the satellite is monitored and operated. We currently use satellite transponder capacity on our satellites in connection with many aspects of our business, including direct leasing of such capacity and routing for our international long-distance and cellular services. Moreover, International Telecommunication Union (“ITU”) regulations specify that a designated satellite slot has been allocated for Indonesia and the Government has the right to determine which party is licensed to use such slot. While we currently hold a license to use the designated satellite slot, in the event our Telkom-1 and Telkom-2 satellites experience technical problems or failure, the Government may determine that we have failed to optimize the existing slot under our license, which may result in the Government withdrawing our license. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain use of the designated satellite slot in a manner deemed satisfactory by the Government. -18- Table of Content In anticipation of the growth in demand for satellite services and to support our business strategy with regard to providing TIME services, we signed a contract in 2009 for the procurement of the Telkom-3 Satellite System. However, due to a launch failure in August 2012, the Telkom-3 satellite ended up in an unusable orbit. Although we had fully insured the cost of the satellite, the loss of the Telkom-3 satellite will require us to lease transponder capacity from a third party provider to fulfill our commitments to our satellite operations customers, with likely lower margins than we would have received from the use of Telkom-3 had it been successfully launched. We have entered into a contract for the construction of a replacement satellite, the Telkom-3S, which is currently planned for launch in late 2016. Although the Telkom-1 satellite may still be operational for several years after the end of its currently estimated operational lifespan in 2015, if there is any delay in the development and launch of the Telkom-3S, or if the operational life of the Telkom-1 satellite ends before the Telkom-3S is successfully launched, or damage or failure renders our existing satellites unfit for use, we would need to lease additional transponder capacity from a third party, which would likely increase our costs of operations. Failure to lease adequate satellite capacity from a third party provider may also result in service interruptions and/or a cessation of our satellite operations. The termination of our satellite business could increase expenses associated with our provision of other telecommunications services, particularly in the eastern parts of Indonesia which currently rely largely on satellite coverage for telecommunications services and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 2. Financial Risks We are exposed to interest rate risk Our debt includes bank borrowings to finance our operations. Where appropriate, we seek to minimize our interest rate risk exposure by entering into interest rate swap contracts to swap floating interest rates for fixed interest rates over the duration of certain borrowings. However, our hedging policy may not adequately cover our exposure to interest rate fluctuations and this may result in a large interest expense and an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the economic situation in the United States, including improvement or expectations of improvement in the U.S. economy, may also have an impact on Southeast Asia and Indonesia. Expectations of the United States Federal Reserve tapering its bond buying program on an improving economy resulted in, among other things, the weakening of equity and bond markets around the world and a number of Asian currencies including the Rupiah since May 2013. In part, in an effort to support the Rupiah, in June 2013, Bank Indonesia began raising its benchmark reference rate from a record low of 5.75% which was set in February 2012. The benchmark reference rate has risen six times between June 2013 and November 2014 to 7.75% before decreasing to 7.50% on February 2015. The increases of Bank Indonesia reference rate in 2013 and 2014 were followed by increases in the JIBOR and Bank Indonesia Certificate (“SBI”) interest rates. There can be no assurance that the Bank Indonesia reference rate, JIBOR or SBI rate will not rise again in the future. We may not be able to successfully manage our foreign currency exchange risk Changes in exchange rates have affected and may continue to affect our financial condition and results of operations. Most of our debt obligations are denominated in Indonesian Rupiah and a majority of our capital expenditures are denominated in US Dollars. Most of our revenues are denominated in Indonesian Rupiah and a portion is denominated in US Dollars (for example from international services). We may also incur additional long-term indebtedness in currencies other than the Indonesian Rupiah, including the US Dollars, to finance further capital expenditures. Overall, our financial risk management program aims to minimize losses on the financial assets and financial liabilities arising from fluctuation of foreign currency exchange rates. We have a written policy for foreign currency risk management, which mainly covers time deposits placements and hedging to cover foreign currency risk exposure for periods ranging from three to twelve months. The exchange rate of Indonesian Rupiah is relatively fluctuative to the US Dollar and in the future, we can give no assurance that we will be able to manage our exchange rate risk successfully or that our business, financial condition or results of operations will not be adversely affected by our exposure to exchange rate risk. We may be unable to fund the capital expenditures needed for us to remain competitive in the telecommunications industry in Indonesia The delivery of telecommunications services is capital intensive. In order to be competitive, we must continually expand, modernize and update our telecommunications infrastructure technology, which involves substantial capital investment. For the years ended December 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014, our actual consolidated capital expenditures totaling Rp17,272 billion, -19- Table of Content Rp24,898 billion, and Rp24,661 billion (US$1,991 million), respectively. Our ability to fund capital expenditures in the future will depend on our future operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions, levels of interest rates and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, and upon our ability to obtain additional external financing. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available to us on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, we can only incur additional financing in compliance with the terms of our debt agreements. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient capital resources to improve or expand our telecommunications infrastructure technology or update our other technologies to the extent necessary to remain competitive in the Indonesian telecommunications market. Our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 3. Legal and Compliance Risks If we are found liable for price fixing by the Indonesian Anti-Monopoly Committee and for class action allegations, we may be subjected to substantial liability which could lead to a decrease in our revenue and affect our business, reputation and profitability The Company, Telkomsel and seven other local operators are being investigated by The Commission for the Supervision of Business Competition (“Komisi Pengawasan Persaingan Usaha” or “KPPU”) for allegations of SMS cartel practices. As a result of the investigations on June 17, 2008, KPPU found that the Company, Telkomsel and certain other local operators had violated Law No. 5 year 1999 article 5 and charged the Company and Telkomsel penalty in the amounts of Rp18 billion and Rp25 billion, respectively. Management believes that there are no such cartel practices that led to a breach of prevailing regulations. Accordingly, the Company and Telkomsel filed an appeal with the Bandung District Court and South Jakarta District Court on July 14, 2008 and July 11, 2008, respectively. Due to the filing of the case by operators in various courts, the KPPU subsequently requested the Supreme Court (SC) to consolidate the cases into the Central Jakarta District Court. Based on the SC’s decision letter dated April 12, 2011, the SC appointed the Central Jakarta District Court to investigate and resolve the case. There can be no assurance that other subscribers, people, or partners will not file similar cases in the future, or that we would not be subject to adverse verdicts which could have an adverse effect on our business, reputation and profitability. Forward-looking statements may not be accurate This Annual Report incorporates forward-looking statements that include announcements regarding our current goals and projections of our operational performance and future business prospects. The words “believe”, “expect”, “anticipate”, “estimate”, “project” and similar words identify forward-looking statements. In addition, all statements, other than statements that contain historical facts, are forward-looking statements. While we believe that the expectations contained in these statements are reasonable, we cannot give an assurance that they will be realized. These forward-looking statements are subjected to a number of risks and uncertainties, including changes in the economic, social and political situation in Indonesia and other risks described in "Risk Factors". All forward-looking statements, written or verbal, made by us or by persons on behalf of us are deemed to be subject to those risks. 4. Regulation Risks We operate in a legal and regulatory environment that is undergoing significant change. These changes may result in increased competition, which may result in reduced margins and operating revenue, among other things. These changes may also directly reduce our margins or reduce the costs of our competitors. These adverse changes resulting from regulation may have a material adverse effect on us. Reformation in Indonesian telecommunications regulation initiated by the Government in 1999 have, to a certain extent, resulted in the industry’s liberalization, including removal of barriers to entry and the promotion of competition. However, in recent years, the volume and complexity of regulatory changes has created an environment of considerable regulatory uncertainty. In addition, as the legal and regulatory environment of the Indonesian telecommunications sector continue to change, competitors, potentially with greater resources than us, may enter the Indonesian telecommunications sector and compete with us in providing telecommunications services. Furthermore, it is impossible to anticipate the regulatory policies that will be applied to new technologies. -20- Table of Content We derive substantial revenue from interconnection services because we have the largest network in Indonesia and our competitors must pay tariffs to connect to our network. As regulated by the MoCI, although SMS interconnection rates as a result of ITRB No.60/BRTI/III/2014 and No.125/BRTI/IV/2014 increase from Rp23 to Rp24, effective from April 2014, SMS interconnection rates have been decreasing prior to that in recent years and may decrease again in the future. The termination of Telkomsel’s premium SMS services from October 2011 as a result of MoCI Regulation No.1/PER/M.KOMINFO/01/2009 resulted in a substantial reduction in our revenues from these services. These services were resumed by Telkomsel from August 6, 2013 as allowed under MoCI Regulation No.21 year of 2013 dated July 26, 2013, regarding the Operation of Content Provider Services on Mobile Cellular Network and Local Fixed Wireless Network with Limited Mobility, as last amended by MoCI Regulation No.6 of 2015, which replaced MoCI Regulation No.1/PER/M.KOMINFO/01/2009. However, pursuant to the new decree, premium SMS service providers are required to meet stricter requirements that aremore difficult to comply with. Accordingly we do not expect revenues from premium SMS services to return to levels seen prior to October 2011. In the future, the Government may announce or implement other regulatory changes which may adversely affect our business or our existing licenses. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully with other domestic and foreign telecommunications operators, that regulatory changes will not disproportionately reduce our competitors’ costs or disproportionately reduce our revenues, or that regulatory changes, amendments or interpretations of current or future laws and regulations promulgated by the Government will not have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. The entry of additional Indonesian telecommunications operators as providers of international direct dialing services could adversely affect our international telecommunications services operating margins, market share and results of operations We obtained a license and entered the international long-distance service market in 2004 and acquired a significant market share for IDD services by the end of 2006. Indosat, one of our primary competitors, entered this market prior to us and continues to maintain a substantial market share for IDD services. Bakrie Telecom was awarded an IDD license in 2009 to provide international long distance service using the “009” access code. There is a possibility that other operators will be granted IDD licenses in the future. The operations of incumbents and the entrance of new operators into the international long-distance market, including the VoIP services provided by such operators, continue to pose a significant competitive threat to us. We cannot assure you that such adverse effects will not continue or that such increased competition will not continue to erode our market share or adversely affect our fixed telecommunications services operating margins and results of operations. We face risks related to the opening of new long distance access codes In an attempt to liberalize DLD services, the Government issued regulations assigning each provider of DLD services a three-digit access code to be dialed by customers making DLD calls. In 2005, the MoCI announced that a three-digit access code for DLD calls will be implemented gradually within five years and that it would assign us the “017” DLD access code for five major cities, including Jakarta, and allow us to progressively extend it to all other area codes. Indosat was assigned “011” as its DLD access code. We were required to open DLD access codes in all remaining areas on September 27, 2011, by which date our network was ready to be opened up to the three-digit DLD access code in all coded areas throughout Indonesia. However, we believe that the cost for operators who have not upgraded their network infrastructure to open their networks to the three-digit access code to do so is significant. To date, other than for Balikpapan, neither of the OLOs have made a request to us to connect their networks to enable their DLD access codes to be accessible. As such, we believe that other than Balikpapan, none of the DLD access codes for any of the licensed operators are usable by customers of other operators. However, if they do so in the future, the implementation of any new DLD access codes can potentially increase competition by offering our subscribers more options for DLD services. In addition, the opening of new DLD access codes is expected to result in increased competition and less cooperation among industry incumbents, which may result in reduced margins and revenues, among other things, all of which may have a material adverse effect on us. Regulations for the configuration of BTS towers may delay the set up of new BTS towers or changes in the placement of existing towers, and may erode our leadership position by requiring us to share our towers with our competitors In 2008 and 2009, the Government issued regulations relating to the construction, utilization and sharing of BTS towers. Pursuant to the regulations, the construction of BTS towers requires permits from the local government. The local government has a right to determine the placement of the towers, the location in which the towers can be constructed, and also to determine a license fees to build tower infrastructure. These regulations also oblige us to allow other telecommunication operators to lease space and utilize our telecommunications towers without any discrimination. -21- Table of Content These regulations may adversely affect us in the allocation, development or expansion plan of our new BTS towers as setting up of our new towers will become more complicated. They may also adversely affect our existing BTS towers if local governments require any changes in the placement of the existing towers. The requirement that we share space on our telecommunications towers may also disadvantage us by requiring that we allow our competitors to expand quickly, particularly in urban areas where new space for additional towers may be difficult to obtain. Effective 2011, local Governments are permitted to assess fees of up to 2.0% of the tax assessed value of towers. Although only several local government and assessed such fees and have not been material, there can be no assurance that they will not be material in the future. 5. Risks Related to Our Fixed Telecommunication Business We may further lose wireline telephone subscribers and revenues derived from our wireline voice services may continue to decline, which may materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and prospects Revenues derived from our wireline voice services have declined during the past several years mainly due to the increasing popularity of mobile voice services and other alternative means of communication. Tariffs for mobile services have declined in recent years which has further accelerated substitution of mobile for wireline voice services. While the number of our fixed wireline subscribers increased by 4.5% in 2013 and increased by 3.7% at the end of 2014, revenues from our wireline voice services decreased by 8.3% in 2013 and by 2.2% in 2014. The percentage of revenues derived from our wireline voice services out of our total revenues continued to decrease from 10.4% in 2013 to 9.4% in 2014. We have been taking various measures in order to stabilize our revenues from wireline voice services. However, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in mitigating the adverse impact of the substitution of mobile voice services and other alternative means of communication for wireline voice services or in reducing the rate of decline in our revenues generated from wireline voice services. Migration from wireline voice services to mobile services and other alternative means of communication may further intensify in the future, which may affect the financial performance of our wireline voice services and thus materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and prospects as a whole. Our data and internet services are facing increasing competition, and we may experience declining margins from such services as such competition intensifies Our data and internet services are facing increase competition from other data and internet operators as well as mobile operators. The number of mobile broadband subscribers have increased with the increasing popularity of smart phones in Indonesia, which adversely affects our market share and revenues from our fixed line data and internet services. In 2013, the regulator permitted the Wi-Max operators to deploy the long term evolution (“LTE”) technology which will further intensify competition in the broadband internet space. We have been taking various measures in order to mitigate the impact of intense competition in our data and internet businesses. However, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in mitigating such adverse impact. Competition may further intensify in the future, which may affect the financial performance of our data and internet services and thus materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and prospects as a whole. 6. Competition Risks Related to Our Cellular Business (Telkomsel) Competition from existing service providers and new market entrants may adversely affect our cellular services business The Indonesian cellular services business is highly competitive. Competition among cellular services providers in Indonesia is based on various factors, including pricing, network quality and coverage, the range of services, features offered and customer service. Our cellular services business, operated through our majority-owned subsidiary, Telkomsel, competes primarily against Indosat and XL. Several other smaller GSM and CDMA operators also provide cellular services in Indonesia, including PT Hutchison CP Telecommunications (“Hutchison”), Smart Telecom and Bakrie Telecom. In addition to current cellular service providers, the MoCI may license additional cellular service providers in the future, and such new entrants may compete with us. -22- Table of Content A number of consolidations among Indonesian operators have taken place in recent years. In March 2010, Smart Telecom and Mobile-8 announced the signing of a cooperation agreement to use the same logo and brand under the brand name "smartfren". On January 18, 2011, Mobile-8 acquired a significant number of shares in Smart Telecom, and on April 12, 2011 PT Mobile-8 Telecom Tbk. changed its name to PT Smartfren Telecom Tbk. XL-Axiata completed the acquisition of a majority interest in PT Axis Telekom in March 2014 and merged in April 2014. The merger resulted in XL-Axiata becoming one of the three largest operators and also acquiring additional frequency allocations to facilitate its plans to implement LTE (4G) technology. Further operator consolidation is likely in order to ensure that each operator can remain competitive, reduce operational costs and also to “rebalance” the broadband mobile frequency spectrum that require wider frequency bandwidth. The MoCI also supports operator consolidation, as it has been reluctant to issue new licenses for cellular players in recent years.While operator consolidation may lead to improved conditions in the cellular telecommunication industry, it also present challenges for Telkomsel in maintaining its market position. 7. Risks Related to Development of New Businesses We believe that efforts to develop new businesses other than the telecommunication business as well as international expansion are necessary to ensure continuing business growth. This is undertaken through the activities of our subsidiaries, primarily Metra and TII. Risks related to new business development include competition from established players, suitability of business model, the need to acquire new expertise in the new areas of operation, and risks related to online media which include intellectual property, consumer protection and confidentiality of customer data. Focusing on international expansion is one of our strategic business intiatives. In particular, we have started expansion into seven countries, namely Hong Kong-Macau, Timor Leste, Australia, Myanmar, Malaysia, Taiwan, and the United States of America. Expanding our operations internationally exposes us to a number of risks associated with operating in new jurisdictions for example, our international operations could be adversely affected by political or social instability and unrest, by regulatory changes, such as an increase in taxes applicable to our operations, macroeconomic instability, limitations on or controls on the foreign exchange trade, competition from local operators, difference in consumer preferences and a lack of expertise in the local markets in which we will be in operation. Any of these factors could cause our expected returns from our expansion to be limited and could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 