Risk Factors. You should carefully consider these risk factors in evaluating the Company. In addition to the following risks, there may also be risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial that may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, results of operation or financial condition could be adversely effected, the trading price of our common stock could decline and shareholders might lose all or part of their investment. We have recently recorded substantial impairments losses in the value of our portfolios We have recorded impairments on the value of our portfolios of $183.5 million in fiscal 2009 and $53.2 million in fiscal year 2008. The impairments are the primary reason for the $90.7 million loss in fiscal year 2009. While we believe we have written down the impaired portfolios to their net reliazable values, no assurances can be given that we will not record additional impairments in the future. Our current financing facility is a twelve month facility of $6 million which will limit our ability to purchase larger portfolios of consumer receivables. Our revolving credit facility with Israel Discount Bank (“IDB”), as agent for a consortium of banks (the “Bank Group”), would have been due on December 31, 2009. The balance of the credit line had been paid down from a principal balance of approximately $84 million at September 30, 2008 to $18.3 million at September 30, 2009 and further reduced to $6.2 million on November 30, 2009. On December 14, 2009 the Company entered into a new $6 million senior revolving credit agreement with Bank Leumi (“New Senior Facility”). A portion of the New Senior Facility was used to pay off the remaining balance of the IDB credit facility. The New Senior Facility has a maturity date of December 31, 2010, carries an interest rate of the Bank Leumi Reference Rate plus 2% with a floor of 4.5%. The New Senior Facility is fully collateralized by all of the assets of the Company other than those of Palisades XVI and pledged assets of GMS Family Investors, LLC an investment company 100% owned by members of the Stern family (or trusts for their benefit). There are no financial covenant restrictions for the New Senior Facility. Approximately $2.4 million was immediately available on the New Senior Facility after the liquidation of the credit facility with IDB. Although a line of credit is important for strategic purposes, a larger facility would not be a requirement for us to continue to operate and purchase consumer receivable portfolios. However, we may be limited in our efforts to make larger purchases without additional financing. 12 Table of Contents The Company has risks associated with its purchase of $6.9 billion in face value of receivables purchased for $300 million in March 2007 (the “Portfolio Purchase”) which has not met our expectations. Since the inception of the Portfolio Purchase financed by the Receivables Financing Agreement, the Receivables Financing Agreement has been modified four times due to collections not meeting our expectations. The Portfolio Purchase has not met our expectations, and the shortfall has been exacerbated by the general economic down turn. We have recorded impairments on the Portfolio Purchase totaling $84.2 million ($30.3 million in fiscal year 2008 and $53.9 million in fiscal year 2009). The Portfolio Purchase was transferred to the cost recovery method effective with the third quarter of fiscal year 2008, as collections became increasingly more difficult to predict. Accordingly, we will recognize income only after we recover our carrying value, which, as of September 30, 2009, was approximately $121.5 million. As a result, our revenue since April 1, 2008 has been and will continue to be negatively impacted. There can be no assurance as to when or if the current carrying value will be recovered. Further, all cash collections from the Portfolio Purchase are used to repay our loan under the Receivable Financing Agreement, which had a principal balance of $104.3 million at September 30, 2009. We may not be able be to timely satisfy all amounts due to Bank of Montreal under the Receivables Financing Agreement Pursuant to the Receivables Financing Agreement, Palisades XVI borrowed approximately $227 million in March 2007. As of September 30, 2009 the balance due Bank of Montreal (“BMO”) was $104.3 million. The loan matures on April 30, 2011 unless the outstanding balance is reduced to $25 million, or less by that date. It is likely we will not be able to reduce the balance of the facility to $25 million by April 30, 2011. The collateral held by Palisades XVI has a book value at September 30, 2009 of $121.5 million after recent impairments. The Company has servicing obligations with respect to the collateral as well as certain obligations to assist BMO in any liquidation of that collateral. If we are unable to repay the loan due to BMO, or extend it (automatically for one year if the balance is $25 million or less, or through negotiation) the Company may be obligated to BMO on its $8.0 million limited guarantee (which is not due until 2014 as long as we have a senior facility, currently the New Senior Facility). The Company may also be obligated to the Family Entity for $700,000. There can be no assurance that BMO will not seek to take other action against the Company if the loan is not repaid when due. The Company will be applying for a Federal tax refund of approximately $46 million upon filing the tax return for fiscal year 2009 and may not receive such refund in a timely manner. Due to the significance of the application request, the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) process could take a considerable amount of time and we may not receive the refund in a timely manner which could impact operations if we were considering acquiring a portfolio with a significant purchase price. In addition, there can be no assurance the IRS will not challenge our refund request. There is no assurance the Company will realize the full value of the deferred tax asset. Although the carry forward period for income taxes is up to twenty years, such allowance period is outside a reasonable period to forecast full realization of the deferred tax asset. The Company recognized a $4.4 million deferred tax asset allowance during fiscal year 2009. The Company continually monitors forecast information to ensure the valuation allowance is appropriate. The current economic environment has slowed our ability to collect from our debtors. The recent worldwide financial turmoil has adversely affected all businesses, including our own. The current collection environment is particularly challenging as a result of factors in the economy over which we have no control. These factors include: • a slowdown in the economy; • severe problems in the credit and housing markets; • higher unemployment; 13 Table of Contents • reductions in consumer spending; • changes in the underwriting criteria by originators; and • changes in laws and regulations governing consumer lending and the related collections. Our litigation strategy is highly dependent on our ability to locate debtors with jobs and/or homes. We believe that our debtors are straining to pay their obligations owed to us. Higher unemployment rates particularly impact our debtors’ ability to pay obligations and our ability to get wage executions as a source of payment. Problems in the credit markets and lower home values have reduced the ability of our debtors to secure financing through second mortgages and home equity lines to pay obligations owed to us. A continuation of the current problems in the credit and housing markets and general slowdown in the economy will continue to adversely affect the effectiveness of our litigation strategy, and the value of our portfolios and our financial performance. We may not be able to purchase consumer receivable portfolios at favorable prices or on sufficiently favorable terms or at all. Our success depends upon the continued availability of consumer receivable portfolios that meet our purchasing criteria and our ability to identify and finance the purchases of such portfolios. The availability of consumer receivable portfolios at favorable prices and on terms acceptable to us depends on a number of factors outside of our control, including: • the growth in consumer debt; • the volume of consumer receivable portfolios available for sale; • availability of financing to fund purchases; • competitive factors affecting potential purchasers and sellers of consumer receivable portfolios; and • possible future changes in the bankruptcy laws, state laws and homestead acts which could make it more difficult for us to collect. Our future operating results will be negatively impacted as we have not replaced our defaulted consumer receivables at historic levels. To operate profitably, we must continually acquire a sufficient amount of distressed consumer receivables to generate continued revenue. Our buying activities during fiscal year 2009 and the last three quarters of fiscal year 2008 slowed dramatically. As the economic environment deteriorated, we felt that pricing of portfolios had not fallen enough to offset the decline in ultimate collections. Accordingly, our purchases of receivables in 2009 were only $19.6 million, compared to $49.9 million in 2008 and $440.9 million in 2007. In part, this led to our net cash collections in fiscal 2009 decreasing $60.6 million, or 28.8% from $208 million in fiscal year 2008 to $147.4 million in fiscal year 2009. Further, of those collections, $40.7 million for fiscal year 2009 and $45.3 million for fiscal period 2008 came from zero basis portfolios (whose carrying value has already been reduced to zero.) Our decreased level of buying new portfolios during 2009 and 2008 will likely result in future reduced net cash collections in 2010 and slow the growth of our future revenues and operating results. Furthermore, we cannot predict how our ability to identify and purchase receivables, and evaluate the quality of those receivables, would be affected if there is a shift in consumer lending practices whether caused by changes in regulations or by a sustained economic downturn. Our inability to purchase sufficient quantities of receivables portfolios may necessitate workforce reductions, which may harm our business. Because fixed costs, such as personnel costs, constitute a significant portion of our overhead, we may be required to reduce the number of employees if we do not continually purchase receivables acquired for liquidation. Reducing the number of employees can affect our business adversely and lead to: • lower employee morale, higher employee attrition rates and fewer experienced employees; 14 Table of Contents • disruptions in our operations and loss of efficiency in collection functions; • excess costs associated with unused space in collection facilities; and • further reliance on our third party collection agencies and attorneys. We have seen at certain times that the market for acquiring consumer receivable portfolios has become more competitive, thereby diminishing from time to time our ability to acquire such receivables at prices we are willing to pay. The growth in consumer debt may also be affected by: • the continuation of a slowdown in the economy; • continuation of the problems in the credit and housing markets; • reductions in consumer spending; • changes in the underwriting criteria by originators; and • changes in laws and regulations governing consumer lending. Any slowing of the consumer debt growth trend could result in a decrease in the availability of consumer receivable portfolios for purchase that could affect the purchase prices of such portfolios. Any increase in the prices we are required to pay for such portfolios, in turn, will reduce the profit we generate from such portfolios. With portfolios classified under the interest method, our projections of future cash flows from our portfolio purchases may prove to be inaccurate, which could result in reduced revenues or the recording of impairment charges if we do not achieve the collections forecasted by our model. We use qualitative and quantitative analyses to project future cash flows from our portfolio purchases. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to achieve the collections forecasted by our analysis. If we are not able to achieve these levels of forecasted collections, our revenues will be reduced and we may be required to record additional impairment charges, which would result in a reduction of our earnings. For the year ended September 30, 2009, we recorded impairment charges of $183.5 million, compared to $53.2 million and $9.1 million for the years ended September 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively. As the mix of our portfolios has shifted to the cost recovery method, there is a negative impact on finance income as no finance income is recognized on the cost recovery portfolios until the carrying value has been recovered. Historically we have utilized the interest method to recognize finance income on most consumer receivable portfolios purchased. As the economy has impacted our business, making collections more unpredictable, we have transferred portfolios from the interest method to the cost recovery method, which delays the recognition of finance until the carrying value has been fully recovered. We use estimates for recognizing finance income on a portion of our consumer receivables acquired for liquidation and our earnings would be reduced if actual results are less than estimated. We utilize the interest method of revenue recognition for determining a portion of our finance income recognized, which is based on projected cash flows that may prove to be less than anticipated and could lead to reductions in revenue or additional impairment charges under FASB Accounting Standard Codification (“ASC”) 310, Receivables — Loans and Debt Securities Acquired with Deteriorated Credit Quality, (“ASC 310”). Static pools of accounts are established. These pools are aggregated based on certain common risk criteria. Each static pool is recorded at cost and is accounted for as a single unit for the recognition of income, principal payments and loss provision. Once a static pool is established for a quarter, individual receivable accounts are not added to the pool (unless replaced by the seller) or removed from the pool (unless sold or returned to the seller). ASC 310 requires that the excess of the contractual cash flows over expected cash flows not be recognized as an adjustment of revenue or expense or on the balance sheet. ASC 310 initially freezes the internal rate of return, (“IRR”), estimated 15 Table of Contents when the accounts receivable are purchased, as the basis for subsequent impairment testing. Significant increases in actual, or expected future cash flows may be recognized prospectively through an upward adjustment of the IRR over a portfolio’s remaining life. Any increase to the IRR then becomes the new benchmark for impairment testing. Rather than lowering the estimated IRR if the collection estimates are not received or projected to be received, the carrying value of a pool would be written down to maintain the then current IRR. Any reduction in our earnings resulting from such a write down could materially adversely affect our stock price. We may not be able to collect sufficient amounts on our consumer receivable portfolios to recover the costs associated with the purchase of those portfolios and to fund our operations. We acquire and collect on consumer receivable portfolios that contain charged-off, semi-performing and performing receivables. In order to operate profitably over the long term, we must continually purchase and collect on a sufficient volume of receivables to generate revenue that exceeds our purchase costs. For accounts that are charged-off or semi-performing, the originators or interim owners of the receivables generally have: • made numerous attempts to collect on these obligations, often using both their in-house collection staff and third-party collection agencies; and • subsequently deemed these obligations as uncollectible These receivable portfolios are purchased at significant discounts to the amount the consumers owe. These receivables are difficult to collect and actual recoveries may vary and be less than the amount expected. In addition, our collections may worsen in a weak economic cycle. We may not recover amounts in excess of our acquisition and servicing costs. Our ability to recover the purchase costs on our portfolios and produce sufficient returns can be negatively impacted by the quality of the purchased receivables. In the normal course of our portfolio acquisitions, some receivables may be included in the portfolios that fail to conform to certain terms of the purchase agreements and we may seek to return these receivables to the seller for payment or replacement receivables. However, we cannot guarantee that any of such sellers will be able to meet their payment obligations to us. Accounts that we are unable to return to sellers may yield no return. If cash flows from operations are less than anticipated as a result of our inability to collect sufficient amounts on our receivables, our ability to satisfy our debt obligations, purchase new portfolios and achieve future growth and profitability may be materially adversely affected. We are subject to competition for the purchase of consumer receivable portfolios. We compete with other purchasers of consumer receivable portfolios, with third-party collection agencies and with financial services companies that manage their own consumer receivable portfolios. We compete on the basis of price, reputation, industry experience and performance. Some of our competitors have greater capital, personnel and other resources than we have. The possible entry of new competitors, including competitors that historically have focused on the acquisition of different asset types, and the expected increase in competition from current market participants may reduce our access to consumer receivable portfolios. Aggressive pricing by our competitors has raised the price of consumer receivable portfolios above levels that we are willing to pay, which could reduce the number of consumer receivable portfolios suitable for us to purchase or if purchased by us, reduce the profits, if any, generated by such portfolios. If we are unable to purchase receivable portfolios at favorable prices or at all, our finance income and earnings could be materially reduced. We are dependent upon third parties to service a majority of our consumer receivable portfolios. Although we utilize our in-house collection staff to initiate the collection process to collect some of our receivables, we outsource a majority of our receivable servicing. As a result, we are dependent upon the efforts of our third-party collection agencies and attorneys to service and collect our consumer receivables. However, any failure by our third-party collection agencies and attorneys to adequately perform collection services for us or remit such collections to us could materially reduce our finance income and our profitability. In addition, our finance income and profitability could be materially adversely affected if we are not able to secure replacement third party collection agencies and attorneys and redirect payments from the debtors to our new third party collection agencies and attorneys promptly in the event our agreements with our third-party collection agencies and attorneys are 16 Table of Contents terminated, our third-party collection agencies and attorneys fail to adequately perform their obligations or if our relationships with such third-party collection agencies and attorneys adversely change. As 29% of our portfolios are serviced by five organizations, we are dependent on them to maximize collections. The current economic environment has had adverse effects on others in this industry, including parties providing services to us. The current economic environment has had an adverse effect on others in our industry. One of our five most significant third party servicers recently filed a bankruptcy proceeding and will be liquidating. We have taken steps in that servicer’s bankruptcy proceeding intended to ensure that our collections continue to be segregated and timely remitted. We have received the consent of the Bankruptcy Court to move our accounts to another servicer. We are in the process of moving our accounts to another servicer with whom we have experience. In addition, a law firm used by the bankrupt servicer has advised us that it is in financial difficulty and will be closing. That law firm is assisting in transitioning the accounts to the new servicer and has advised us that it will consent to substitute other counsel in its place. The replacement servicer will be taking steps to arrange for the substitution of counsel. Notwithstanding the efforts of various parties to provide for a conversion of the accounts to the new servicer, these occurrences could interfere with the collection of certain of our portfolios including the ability of judgment debtors to identify Asta, the new servicer or new counsel as the parties to whom they should direct payments. In addition, representatives of creditors of the insolvent servicer and troubled law firm may endeavor to assert claims with respect to portfolios that those companies relinquish including our accounts. We rely on our third party collectors to comply with all rules and regulations and maintain proper internal controls over their accounting and operations. Because the receivables were originated and serviced pursuant to a variety of federal and/or state laws by a variety of entities and involved consumers in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and South America, there can be no assurance that all original servicing entities have, at all times, been in substantial compliance with applicable law. Additionally, there can be no assurance that we or our third-party collection agencies and attorneys have been or will continue to be at all times in substantial compliance with applicable law. The failure to comply with applicable law and not maintain proper controls in their accounting and operations could materially adversely affect our ability to collect our receivables and could subject us to increased costs, fines and penalties. We may rely on third parties to locate, identify and evaluate consumer receivable portfolios available for purchase. We may rely on third parties, including brokers and third-party collection agencies and attorneys, to identify consumer receivable portfolios and, in some instances, to assist us in our evaluation and purchase of these portfolios. As a result, if such third parties fail to identify receivable portfolios or if our relationships with such third parties are not maintained, our ability to identify and purchase additional receivable portfolios could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if we, or such parties, fail to correctly or adequately evaluate the value or collectability of these consumer receivable portfolios, we may pay too much for such portfolios and suffer an impairment, which would negatively impact our earnings. Business issues with a significant third party servicer (the “Servicer”) led to the need to secure subordinated financing, reduced purchases and other disruptions in the business relationship. The Servicer that provides servicing for certain portfolios within the Bank Group Collateral (all portfolios excluding the Portfolio Purchase), was also engaged by Palisades Collection, LLC, the Company’s servicing subsidiary (“Palisades Collection”), after the acquisition of the Portfolio Purchase, to provide certain management services with respect to the portfolios owned by Palisades XVI and financed by the BMO Facility and to provide subservicing functions for portions of the Portfolio Purchase. Collections with respect to the Portfolio Purchase, and most portfolios purchased by the Company, are less than the costs and fees which were expended to generate those collections, particularly when court costs are advanced to pursue an aggressive litigation strategy, as was the case with the Portfolio Purchase. Start-up cash flow issues with respect to the Portfolio Purchase were exacerbated by (a) collection challenges caused by the economic environment, (b) the fact that Palisades Collection believed that it 17 Table of Contents would be desirable to engage the Servicer to perform management services with respect to the Portfolio Purchase which services were not contemplated at the time of the initial acquisition of the Portfolio Purchase and (c) Palisades Collection believed it would be desirable to commence litigation and incur court costs at a faster rate than initially budgeted. As previously described in the Company’s Form 10-K and Form 10-K/A for the year ended September 30, 2007, the agreements with the Servicer call for a 3% fee on substantially all gross collections from the Portfolio Purchase on the first $500 million and 7% on substantially all gross collections from the Portfolio Purchase in excess of $500 million. Additionally, the Company paid the Servicer a monthly fee of $275,000 for 25 months for consulting, asset identification and skiptracing efforts in connection with the Portfolio Purchase, ending in May 2009. The Servicer also receives a servicing fee with respect to those accounts it actually subservices. As the fees due to the Servicer for management and subservicing functions and the amounts spent for court costs were higher than those initially contemplated for subservicing functions, and as start-up collections with respect to the Portfolio Purchase were slower than initially projected, the amounts owed to the Servicer with respect to the Portfolio Purchase for fees and advances for court costs to pursue litigation against debtors, from time to time, exceeded amounts available to pay the Servicer from collections received by the Servicer on the Portfolio Purchase on a current basis. The Company considered the effects of these trends on the Portfolio Purchase valuation. Rather than waiting for collections from the Portfolio Purchase to satisfy sums of approximately $8.2 million due the Servicer for court cost advances and its fees, the Servicer set-off that amount against amounts it had collected on behalf of the Company with respect to the Bank Group Collateral. While the Servicer disagrees, the Company believes that those sums should have been remitted to the Bank Group without setoff. The Company determined to remedy any shortfall in the receipts under the Bank Group facility by obtaining the $8.2 million subordinated loan from the Family Entity and causing the proceeds of the loan to be delivered to the Bank Group and not to pursue a dispute with the Servicer at that time. The Company believed that avoiding a dispute with the Servicer was is in its best interests, as the Servicer should improve collections on the Portfolio Purchase over time. On April 29, 2008, the Company entered into a letter agreement with the Bank Group in which the Bank Group consented to the Subordinated Loan from the Family Entity. On January 18, 2009, the Company entered into amended agreements with the Servicer pursuant to which the Servicer agreed that it would not make any further set-offs against collections. We have an ongoing dispute with a significant servicer for which we are currently negotiating a settlement. The Company has an ongoing dispute with one of its significant third party servicers regarding certain provisions in the servicing agreement between the companies. The Company contends that there are amounts due the Company under a profit-sharing arrangement. The servicer has acknowledged the profit sharing arrangement but disagrees with the calculation of the amount owed. Additionally, the servicer has asserted that the Company owes the servicer certain amounts with regard to a portfolio sale and court costs allegedly incurred by the servicer and not paid to the servicer by the Company. The companies continue to negotiate a settlement for these items. The Company does not believe the final settlement will have an adverse material effect on the Company. Our collections may decrease if bankruptcy filings increase. During times of economic recession, the amount of defaulted consumer receivables generally increases, which contributes to an increase in the amount of personal bankruptcy filings. Under certain bankruptcy filings, a debtor’s assets are sold to repay credit originators, but since the defaulted consumer receivables we purchase are generally unsecured, we may not be able to collect on those receivables. We cannot assure you that our collection experience would not decline with an increase in bankruptcy filings. If our actual collection experience with respect to a defaulted consumer receivable portfolio is significantly lower than we projected when we purchased the portfolio, our earnings could be negatively affected. If we are unable to access external sources of financing, we may not be able to fund and grow our operations. The failure to obtain increased financing and capital as needed would limit our ability to: • purchase consumer receivable portfolios; and • achieve our growth plans. 18 Table of Contents In addition, our financing sources may impose certain restrictive covenants, including financial covenants. Failure to satisfy any of these covenants could: • cause our indebtedness to become immediately payable; • preclude us from further borrowings from these existing sources; and • prevent us from securing alternative sources of financing necessary to purchase consumer receivable portfolios and to operate our business. The loss of any of our executive officers may adversely affect our operations and our ability to successfully acquire receivable portfolios. Historically, Arthur Stern, our Chairman Emeritus, Gary Stern, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Robert J. Michel, our Chief Financial Officer, and Mary Curtin, our Senior Vice President, were responsible for making substantially all management decisions, including determining which portfolios to purchase, the purchase price and other material terms of such portfolio acquisitions. These decisions are instrumental to the success of our business. On October 5, 2009, it was announced that Cameron Williams, who had served as Chief Operating Officer, will be leaving the Company following a transition period. Mr. Williams’ contract expires December 31, 2009. Additionally, as of January 2009, Arthur Stern stepped down as an employee of the Company, although he continues to serve on the Board and to consult with our executives. Significant losses of the services of our executive officers or the inability to replace our officers with individuals who have experience in the industry or with the Company could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our ability to successfully acquire receivable portfolios. The Stern family effectively controls Asta, substantially reducing the influence of our other stockholders. Members of the Stern family including Arthur Stern, Gary Stern and Barbara Marburger, daughter of Arthur Stern and sister of Gary Stern, trusts or custodial accounts for the benefit of minor children of Barbara Marburger and Gary Stern, Asta Group, Incorporated, and limited liability companies controlled by Judith R. Feder, niece of Arthur Stern and cousin of Gary Stern, in which Arthur Stern, Alice Stern (wife of Arthur Stern and mother of Gary Stern and Barbara Marburger), Gary Stern and trusts for the benefit of the issue of Arthur Stern and the issue of Gary Stern hold all economic interests, own, in the aggregate, approximately 26.0% of our outstanding shares of common stock. In addition, other members of the Stern Family, such as adult children of Gary Stern and Barbara Marburger, own additional shares. As a result, the Stern family is able to influence significantly the actions that require stockholder approval, including: • the election of a majority of our directors; and • the approval of mergers, sales of assets or other corporate transactions or matters submitted for stockholder approval. As a result, our other stockholders may have reduced influence over matters submitted for stockholder approval. In addition, the Stern family’s influence could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of us and consequently materially adversely affect the price of our common stock. Current economic conditions, have had a significant impact on our ability to sell accounts. As part of our historic business model, we have sold accounts on an opportunistic basis. Our ability to sell accounts has been limited in 2009 and in 2008 and may be limited in the future. Net collections represented by account sales for 2009 were only $8.7 million, compared to $20.4 million and $54.2 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Collections represented by account sales as a percentage of total collections were 5.9% in 2009, compared to 9.8% and 19.2% in 2008 and 2007, respectively. We had launched a sales effort to enhance cash flow and pay debt, particularly from the Portfolio Purchase, but sales have been slower than expected due to a variety of factors, including a slow resale market, similar to the decrease in pricing we are seeing in general, as well as lack of supporting documentation (media) and validation of the Portfolio Purchase accounts. Government regulations may limit our ability to recover and enforce the collection of our receivables. Federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and ordinances may limit our ability to recover and enforce our rights with respect to the receivables acquired by us. These laws include, but are not limited to, the following federal 19 Table of Contents statutes and regulations promulgated thereunder and comparable statutes in states where consumers reside and/or where creditors are located: • The Fair Debt Collection Practices Act; • The Federal Trade Commission Act; • The Truth-In-Lending Act; • The Fair Credit Billing Act; • The Equal Credit Opportunity Act; and • The Fair Credit Reporting Act. We may be precluded from collecting receivables we purchase where the creditor or other previous owner or third-party collection agency or attorney failed to comply with applicable law in originating or servicing such acquired receivables. Laws relating to the collection of consumer debt also directly apply to our business. Our failure to comply with any laws applicable to us, including state licensing laws, could limit our ability to recover on receivables and could subject us to fines and penalties, which could reduce our earnings and result in a default under our loan arrangements. In addition, our third-party collection agencies and attorneys may be subject to these and other laws and their failure to comply with such laws could also materially adversely affect our finance income and earnings. Additional laws or amendments to existing laws may be enacted that could impose additional restrictions on the servicing and collection of receivables. Such new laws or amendments may adversely affect the ability to collect on our receivables, which could also adversely affect our finance income and earnings. Because our receivables are generally originated and serviced pursuant to a variety of federal, state laws and/or local laws by a variety of entities and may involve consumers in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and South America, there can be no assurance that all originating and servicing entities have, at all times, been in substantial compliance with applicable law. Additionally, there can be no assurance that we or our third-party collection agencies and attorneys have been or will continue to be at all times in substantial compliance with applicable law. Failure to comply with applicable law could materially adversely affect our ability to collect our receivables and could subject us to increased costs, fines and penalties. Class action suits and other litigation in our industry could divert our management’s attention from operating our business and increase our expenses. Originators, debt purchasers and third-party collection agencies and attorneys in the consumer credit industry are frequently subject to putative class action lawsuits and other litigation. Claims include failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations and improper or deceptive origination and servicing practices. Being a defendant in such class action lawsuits or other litigation could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may seek to make acquisitions that prove unsuccessful or strain or divert our resources. We may seek to grow Asta through acquisitions of related businesses. Such acquisitions present risks that could materially adversely affect our business and financial performance, including: • the diversion of our management’s attention from our everyday business activities; • the assimilation of the operations and personnel of the acquired business; • the contingent and latent risks associated with the past operations of, and other unanticipated problems arising in, the acquired business; and • the need to expand management, administration and operational systems. If we make such acquisitions we cannot predict whether: • we will be able to successfully integrate the operations of any new businesses into our business; • we will realize any anticipated benefits of completed acquisitions; or • there will be substantial unanticipated costs associated with acquisitions. In addition, future acquisitions by us may result in: • potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities; 20 Table of Contents • the incurrence of additional debt; and • the recognition of significant charges for depreciation and impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets. Although we have no present plans or intentions, we continuously evaluate potential acquisitions of related businesses. However, we have not reached any agreement or arrangement with respect to any particular future acquisition and we may not be able to complete any acquisitions on favorable terms or at all. Our investments in other businesses and entry into new business ventures may adversely affect our operations. We have and may continue to make investments in companies or commence operations in businesses and industries that are not identical to those with which we have historically been successful. If these investments or arrangements are not successful, our earnings could be materially adversely affected by increased expenses and decreased finance income. If our technology and phone systems are not operational, our operations could be disrupted and our ability to successfully acquire receivable portfolios and receive collections from debtors could be adversely affected. Our success depends, in part, on sophisticated telecommunications and computer systems. The temporary loss of our computer and telecommunications systems, through casualty, operating malfunction or service provider failure, could disrupt our operations. In addition, we must record and process significant amounts of data quickly and accurately to properly bid on prospective acquisitions of receivable portfolios and to access, maintain and expand the databases we use for our collection and monitoring activities. Any failure of our information systems and their backup systems would interrupt our operations. We may not have adequate backup arrangements for all of our operations and we may incur significant losses if an outage occurs. In addition, we rely on third-party collection agencies and attorneys who also may be adversely affected in the event of an outage in which the third-party collection agencies and attorneys do not have adequate backup arrangements. Any interruption in our operations or our third-party collection agencies’ and attorneys’ operations could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. However, the Company is in the process of implementing a disaster recovery program which would mitigate this risk. Our organizational documents and Delaware law may make it harder for us to be acquired without the consent and cooperation of our board of directors and management. Several provisions of our organizational documents and Delaware law may deter or prevent a takeover attempt, including a takeover attempt in which the potential purchaser offers to pay a per share price greater than the current market price of our common stock. Under the terms of our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by the stockholders, to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions thereof. The ability to issue shares of preferred stock could tend to discourage takeover or acquisition proposals not supported by our current board of directors. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which restricts business combinations with some stockholders once the stockholder acquires 15% or more of our common stock. Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could cause a decrease in the market price of our common stock. We had 14,272,457 shares of common stock issued and outstanding as of December 21, 2009. Of these shares, 3,669,340 are held by our affiliates and are saleable under Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The remainder of our outstanding shares is freely tradable. In addition, options to purchase approximately 1,157,905 shares of our common stock were outstanding as of September 30, 2009, of which 1,081,912 were vested. In certain cases, the exercise prices of such options were higher than the current market price of our common stock. We may also issue additional shares in connection with our business and may grant additional stock options or restricted shares to our employees, officers, directors and consultants under our present or future equity compensation plans or we may issue warrants to third parties outside of such plans. As of September 30, 2009 there were 1,150,668 shares available for such purpose with such shares available under the Equity Compensation Plan and the 2002 Stock Option Plan. No more options are available for issuance under the 21 Table of Contents 1995 Stock Option Plan. If a significant portion of these shares were sold in the public market, the market value of our common stock could be adversely affected. From time to time, the Company’s Chairman Emeritus, Arthur Stern and President and Chief Executive Officer, Gary Stern have adopted prearranged stock trading plans in accordance with guidelines specified by Rule 10b5-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. While no such plans are in effect at present, significant sales by the Stern family could have an adverse effect on market price for our common stock. The Company purchased a portfolio in a South American country exposing the Company to currency rate fluctuations. As a result of this $8.6 million purchase in fiscal year 2008, the Company is exposed to currency rate fluctuations as the collections on this portfolio are denominated in the local currency of the South American country. Additionally, our investment could also be exposed to the same currency risk. A strengthened U.S. dollar could decrease the U.S. dollar equivalent of the local currency collections, and the local currency conversion to U.S. dollars would suffer upon settlement of transactions associated with this investment with the parent company. The Company has no foreign currency hedge contracts in place. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate and cause our stock price to decline. Because of the nature of our business, our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our results may fluctuate as a result of any of the following: • the timing and amount of collections on our consumer receivable portfolios; • our inability to identify and acquire additional consumer receivable portfolios; • a decline in the estimated future value of our consumer receivable portfolio recoveries; • increases in operating expenses associated with the growth of our operations; • general and economic market conditions; and • prices we are willing to pay for consumer receivable portfolios. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. The Company has received no written comments regarding its periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of its 2009 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 