Item 1A. Risk Factors We wish to caution each reader of this Form 10-K to consider the following factors and other factors discussed herein and in other past reports, including but not limited to prior year Form 10-K and quarterly Form 10-Q reports filed with the SEC. Our business and results of operations could be materially affected by any of the following risks. The factors discussed herein are not exhaustive. Therefore, the factors contained herein should be read together with other reports and documents that we file with the SEC from time to time, which may supplement, modify, supersede or update the factors listed in this document. Revenue from product sales may be subject to further declines due to the mature nature of many of our product lines and from customers transitioning their access network service assurance solutions. Our legacy products are primarily oriented towards POTS lines. As many customers implement next generation network improvements, such as fiber to the premises (“FTTP”), our continuing ability to sell our legacy technology or to maintain historic pricing levels for these products will likely be adversely affected. In particular, sales of our MCU products, which have historically represented a meaningful portion of our product sales, are declining. MCU sales largely depend upon the rate of deployment of new, and the retrofitting of existing, DLC systems in the United States. Installation and replacement of DLC systems are, in turn, driven by a number of factors, including the availability of capital resources and the demand for new or better POTS. Next generation network improvements such as FTTP do not require the use of our MCU products as does the present hybrid POTS network. If our major customers fail to continue to build out their DSL networks and other projects requiring DLC deployments, or if we otherwise satisfy the domestic telecommunications market’s demand for MCUs, our MCU sales will continue to decline and our future results would be materially and adversely affected. Certain of our larger customers are in the process of upgrading their access networks, as well as, their service assurance solutions for these networks. This has and may continue to adversely impact revenues from our testing products. Further, these customers may decide not to adopt our technologies for their service assurance needs, which would have a significant adverse affect on revenues for those products. Our product sales have experienced continual declines over the past five years, with sales from continuing operations of $19.9 million for 2009, $27.0 million in 2008 and $36.1 million for 2007. Our MCU product line, which historically has represented a larger portion of our sales, has declined by 36% and 29% as a percentage of continuing operation product sales, over the 2009 and 2008 periods, respectively. In addition, we also have experienced year over year declines in our DigiTest, LoopCare and LDU product lines. If we are unable to continue to derive sales of these products to our existing customers due to their lower demand, capital constraints and a move towards other technologies, this could have a materially adverse impact on our future financial results. Our ability to maintain or increase revenues will be dependent on our ability to expand our customer base, increase unit sales volumes of our existing products and to successfully, develop, introduce and sell new products. Our service business may be negatively affected by a trend of reduced capital spending and by delays in our ability, or by our inability, to secure and extend long-term maintenance contracts with our existing or new customers, and by customer initiatives to consolidate services purchases with a single supplier. Our Services business, which includes software maintenance and professional services, as well as our managed services offerings, is sensitive to the decline in our large carrier customers’ capital investment in their traditional voice services. This decline may lead to a decreasing demand for our professional services. In addition, if we are unsuccessful in renewing our software maintenance agreements, or if we experience delays in the extension or renewal of certain of the more significant software maintenance agreements, our revenues may be negatively affected. In particular, in December 2009, we were advised that Verizon, a major customer for our LoopCare post-warranty software maintenance services, would not renew its contract for those services after the expiration of that contract on December 31, 2009, and would instead seek to purchase post-warranty maintenance services for our LoopCare products through a larger supplier, requiring us to negotiate a new contract with that supplier. In addition, another significant maintenance contract that was scheduled for expiration on December 31, 2009 was extended through March 2010 pending negotiation of that contract renewal. If the negotiations for these or any other significant maintenance contract that becomes subject to renewal are not successful, the agreements may not be reached at all or may be reached on terms that are not as favorable to us as the former or extended arrangements, and as a result our revenues may be adversely affected. In addition, to the extent more of our customers seek to consolidate services purchases through a large vendor, and in so doing seek to purchase maintenance for our software products through a third-party vendor, we will likely experience significant downward pricing pressure for these services. We are also experiencing intense pricing pressure from many of our other larger software maintenance customers, as they continue to attempt to reduce their own internal costs to substantiate the value of our long term service contracts. We believe that our services and our software systems provide significant value to our customers; however, each time a contract is scheduled for renewal, we must - 12 - Table of Contents show our customers the value of the entire system and the costs saved by maintaining and even extending the system capabilities. To date, apart from the customer noted above, we have been able to renegotiate or have had contract extensions to most of our major contracts as they become subject to renewal. We have, however, had to reduce our pricing in some instances. Accordingly, our ability to maintain historical levels from traditional sources or increase levels of Services revenues cannot be assured, and in fact, such levels may decrease. The expiration of the Verizon contract in December 2009, as well as the pricing pressure on many of our other services contracts and our increasing difficulty in securing extensions on major customer contracts, triggered our evaluation of the carrying value and the remaining useful lives of our intangible asset associated with our LoopCare post-warranty software maintenance agreements. Based on this evaluation, we recorded a significant impairment charge of $27.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2009, and reduced the remaining finite useful life of this asset from approximately forty six years to fifteen years. Further declines in our post-warranty maintenance services may result in future impairment charges as well as having a materially adverse impact on our financial results and cash flow. Our future growth depends to a large extent upon our success in developing and selling new products and service offerings. We have focused our growth efforts and are managing our investments. If we are unable to drive sales of new products and services to counter the expected declines in our legacy product lines, this could have a materially adverse impact on our future financial results. We are actively selling and developing new product and service offerings. Our long term growth is dependent upon the success of these products and additional new products to be developed in the future. In the telecommunications market, our new products include hardware solutions, including enhanced LDU and DigiTest ICE offerings, a new software platform, Stratum, our managed services offering, and OEM product offerings. In the power utility market, we offer a new solution consisting of hardware sensors, aggregation nodes, and a centralized software platform. We continue to believe that there is a significant market opportunity for these products. However, there can be no assurance that these product offerings will be commercially successful in the near term or at all. We continue to pursue product development initiatives to supplement our new offerings described above. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in marketing and selling our new product and services offerings or that the new offerings will result in the benefits and opportunities that we expect. The development of new solutions is an uncertain and potentially expensive process and requires that we accurately anticipate technological and market trends so that we can deliver products in a timely manner. We may not be successful in delivering the required product features to achieve success, or if we do so, we may not be able to commercialize the product in a timely manner or achieve market acceptance. If we fail to set appropriate prices for our products, our profitability could be adversely affected. In addition, the potential market growth rate may not be as significant as we expect or could develop in unforeseen directions. For example, the commercial availability of competing products may affect the extent or timing of market acceptance of our solutions. Furthermore, we may not be successful in forming the strategic alliances contemplated by our new strategy. We may not identify the right partners or our partners could fail to perform their obligations and the commercial relationship may fail to develop as expected. As a result of these and other factors, we may not be able to implement our strategy and our ability to exploit our incumbent position in the manner contemplated by our strategic planning and we would be materially and adversely affected. Our restructuring efforts and cost reduction plans may be ineffective or may limit our ability to compete. During 2009, we restructured our business operations through three different restructuring initiatives. During the first quarter of 2009, we announced a restructuring initiative, which included the realignment of existing resources to new projects, reductions in our field services and sales staffing, as well as other reduction activities, and on July 6, 2009, we announced a restructuring initiative which included reductions in our production staffing. In October of 2009, we eliminated twenty-eight positions across all levels of the organization. Previously, during 2008, we implemented a series of initiatives designed to increase efficiency and reduce costs and to focus our core business on our test and measurement expertise. These initiatives included reductions of staff, alignment of investments and a completion of the integration plans from prior acquisitions. Although we have experienced some cost savings from these restructuring and cost reduction programs and initiatives and we believe that these actions will continue to reduce costs, they may not be sufficient to achieve the required operational efficiencies that will enable us to respond more quickly to changes in the market or result in the improvements in our business that we anticipate or be sufficient to offset a decline in our revenue. In such event, we may be forced to take additional cost-reducing initiatives, which may negatively impact quarterly earnings and profitability as we account for severance and other related costs. In addition, there is the risk that such measures could have long-term effects on our business by reducing our pool of talent, decreasing or slowing improvements in our products, making it more difficult for us to respond to customers, limiting our ability to increase production quickly if and when the demand for our products increases and limiting our ability to hire and retain key personnel. These circumstances could cause our earnings to be lower than they otherwise might be. - 13 - Table of Contents Failure to achieve the maximum revenues under our managed services contract could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. During the second quarter of 2009, we entered into a multi-year, managed services contract with Ericsson, a leading global network equipment provider, pursuant to which we provide customer support and engineering services capabilities. In connection with the agreement, we hired twenty-one employees. The inability to successfully integrate and/or retain the hired employees and to integrate the tools and resources acquired as part of the agreement into our services business would have an adverse impact on our ability to realize the potential revenue opportunities under the agreement. In addition, under the terms of the managed services contract, we may not achieve the full revenue potential of the contract in the event that (i) we fail to meet certain specified service level requirements in the contract, and subsequently, service level credits reducing payments to us are applied, (ii) the network equipment provider terminates the contract for our failure to perform in accordance with its terms; and (iii) fees payable to us are reduced due to revenues from the network equipment provider’s customer agreements declining more rapidly than anticipated. Additionally, our overall profitability may be negatively impacted in the event we are required to incur unanticipated expenses to satisfy obligations assumed under the managed services agreement. A continuing downturn in the global economy may adversely affect our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Demand for our products and services are increasingly dependent upon the rate of growth in the global economy. If current economic conditions continue, customer demand for our products and services could be even more adversely affected than experienced to date, which in turn could adversely affect our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Many factors could continue to adversely affect regional or global economic growth. Some of these factors include: • Poor availability of credit, • Continued recession in the United States economy and other countries that we serve, • Fluctuation in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies in jurisdictions where we transact business, • Significant act of terrorism which disrupts global trade or consumer confidence, • Geopolitical tensions including war and civil unrest, and • Reduced levels of economic activity or disruption of domestic or international transportation. The recent challenging economic conditions also may impair the ability of our customers to pay for products and services they have purchased or otherwise constrict our customers’ spending on our products and services. As a result, revenues may decline and reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. We had to take such action in the third quarter of 2009 as we wrote off a significant receivable from an international customer that we have been unable to collect, and have been forced to bring court action in a foreign jurisdiction in an attempt to enforce payment. Although we believe that the merits of the claim are in our favor, there can be no assurance of success in any litigation, and we may incur additional expenses in connection with the litigation and other collection efforts that we would be unable to recover. In addition, certain of our contracts are paid, in part or whole, in foreign currencies. A decrease in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar relative to these currencies could further reduce our revenues, and such impact could be material. We maintain an investment portfolio, consisting of cash, cash equivalents and investments in individual municipal bonds, and corporate and government bonds. These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks. If the global credit market continues to deteriorate, our investment portfolio may be impacted and potentially creating an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, which would result in an impairment charge adversely impacting our financial results. We are dependent upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate our key personnel. Our success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate our key management personnel, including the Company’s CEO, CFO, senior management team members, and key engineers, necessary to implement our business plan and to grow our business. Despite the adverse economic conditions of the past several years, competition for certain specific technical and management skill sets is intense. If we are unable to identify and hire the personnel that we need to succeed, or if one or more of our key employees were to cease to be associated with the Company, our future results could be adversely affected. Furthermore, since 2007 we have experienced a number of changes in our senior management positions, both as part of the restructuring initiatives and otherwise. Although we believe we have taken appropriate measures to address the impact of these changes, such changes could impact our business, and/or negatively affect operating results. - 14 - Table of Contents We depend upon a few major customers for a majority of our revenues, and the loss of any of these customers, or the substantial reduction in the products or services that they purchase from us, would significantly reduce our revenues and net income. We currently depend upon a few major customers for a significant portion of our revenues and we expect to continue to derive a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of customers in the future. The loss of any of these customers or a substantial reduction in the products or services that they purchase from us or our inability to renew services agreements with customers and to do so upon terms at least as favorable to our current agreements would significantly reduce our revenues and net income. Furthermore, diversions in the capital spending of certain of these customers to new network elements have and could continue to lead to their reduced demand for our products, which could in turn have a material adverse affect on our business and results of operation. The capital spending of our large domestic carrier customers, as well as many of our other customers and potential customers, are dictated by a number of factors, most of which are beyond our control, including: • Conditions of the telecommunications market and the weakening economy in general; • Subscriber line loss and related reduced demand for wireline telecommunications services; • Changes or shifts in the technology utilized in the networks; • Labor disputes between our customers and their collective bargaining units; • Failure of our customers to meet established purchase forecasts and growth projections; • Competition among the large domestic carriers, competitive exchange carriers and wireless telecommunications and cable providers; and • Reorganizations, including management changes, at one or more of our customers or potential customers. If the financial condition of one or more of our major customers should deteriorate, or if they have difficulty acquiring investment capital or reduce their capital expenditures due to any of these or other factors, a substantial decrease in our revenues would likely result. Our operating results may vary from quarter to quarter, causing our stock price to fluctuate. Our operating results have in the past been subject to quarter to quarter fluctuations, and we expect that these fluctuations may continue in future periods. Demand for our products is driven by many factors, including the availability of funding for our products in customers’ capital budgets. Some of our customers place large orders near the end of a quarter or fiscal year, in part to spend remaining available capital budget funds. Seasonal fluctuations in customer demand for our products driven by budgetary and other reasons can create corresponding fluctuations in period-to-period revenues, and we therefore cannot assure you that our results in one period are necessarily indicative of our revenues in any future period. In addition, the number and timing of large individual sales and the ability to obtain acceptances of those sales, where applicable, has been difficult for us to predict, and large individual sales have, in some cases, occurred in quarters subsequent to those we anticipated, or have not occurred at all. The loss or deferral of one or more significant sales in a quarter could harm our operating results. It is possible that in some quarters our operating results will be below the expectations of investors. In such events, or in the event adverse conditions prevail, the market price of our common stock may decline significantly. We have completed, and may pursue additional acquisitions, which could result in the disruption of our current business, difficulties related to the integration of acquired businesses, and substantial expenditures. We have completed, and we may pursue additional acquisitions of companies, product lines and technologies as part of our strategic efforts to realign our resources around growth opportunities in current, adjacent and new markets, to enhance our existing products, to introduce new products and to fulfill changing customer requirements. The consideration for any such acquisition may be cash or stock, or a combination thereof, and the payment of such consideration may result in a reduction in our cash balance and/or the issuance of additional shares which may dilute the interest of our existing shareholders. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the disruption of our business, exposure to assumed or unknown liabilities of the acquired target, and the failure to integrate successfully the operations and products of acquired businesses. International acquisitions provide specific challenges due to the unique topology of international telecommunications networks, as well as requirements of doing business in particular countries. Further, our ability to sell certain products internationally depends upon our ability to maintain certain key manufacturing relationships and we may not be able to continue those relationships. Goodwill and acquired intangible assets arising from acquisitions may result in significant impairment charges against our operating results in one or more future periods. Furthermore, we may never achieve the anticipated results or benefits of an acquisition, such as increased market share or the successful development and sales of a new product. The effects of any of these risks could materially harm our business and reduce our future results of operations and cause our stock price to decline. - 15 - Table of Contents The failure of acquired assets to meet expectations, or a decline in our fair value determined by market prices of our stock, could indicate impairment of our intangible assets and result in impairment charges. Accounting guidance for the impairment or disposal of long-lived assets addresses financial accounting and reporting for the impairment or disposal of long-lived assets and requires that these assets be measured for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that its carrying amount may not be recoverable. During 2009, 2008 and 2007, based on our assessment that triggering events had occurred, we performed the required recoverability tests and determined that certain long-lived assets were impaired. The occurrence of further triggering events could result in additional impairments. The sale of our products is dependent upon our ability to satisfy the proprietary requirements of our customers. We depend upon a relatively narrow range of products for the majority of our revenue. Our success in marketing our products is dependent upon their continued acceptance by our customers. In some cases, our customers require that our products meet their own proprietary requirements. If we are unable to satisfy such requirements, or forecast and adapt to changes in such requirements, our business could be materially harmed. In addition, we have recently introduced new products, including the DigiTest ICE and the first version of the LightHouse products in 2008, and our Stratum software platform in 2009. As of the end of 2009, we had very limited sales of our LightHouse product line and our trial with a major utility is still ongoing and is expected to continue into mid-2010. We have not yet seen the customer acceptance of our Stratum platform that we had expected. In addition, there can be no assurance that our trial with a major utility will be successful or, even if successful, will result in the orders for our Lighthouse product line that we anticipate. The rate of acceptance of these new products could be further delayed by, or may not be achieved at all as a result of, among other factors, extended testing or acceptance periods or requests for custom or modified engineering of such products to conform to customer requirements. The sale of our products is dependent on our ability to respond to rapid technological change and may be adversely affected by the development, and acceptance by our customers, of new technologies which may compete with or reduce the demand for our products. Changes in network architecture experienced by our customers in the telephony market have and may continue to negatively affect our ability to sell products in these markets. Although we are addressing these changes with modifications to our existing products, if customers do not accept this new product technology, our revenues could be adversely affected. Further, we are experiencing competition from the internal Information Technology (“IT”) departments of our own carrier customers. In the past, we offered solutions consisting of hardware probes, coupled with a centralized software platform that analyzed the data pulled from the probes and determined the appropriate dispatch statement or issue identification statement. As the capabilities of new infrastructure equipment increases, test and monitoring software platforms are increasingly taking advantage of the available data from the infrastructure equipment. At the same time, many of our larger customers have captive development capabilities in their own IT organizations. These IT teams can develop competing software systems to our offerings, which could adversely affect our ability to sell our products to those customers, which could negatively impact overall revenues from such products. Furthermore, the development of new technologies which compete with or reduce the demand for our products, and the adoption of such technologies by our customers, could adversely affect sales of our products. For example, as our products generally serve the wireline marketplace, to the extent wireline customers migrate to wireless technologies, there may be reduced demand for our products. In addition, we face new competition as testing functions that were once only available with purpose-built test systems are now available as integrated components of network elements. To the extent our customers adopt such new technology in place of our telecommunications products, the sales of our telecommunications products may be adversely affected. Such competition may also increase pricing pressure for our telecommunications products and adversely affect the revenues from such products. We depend on a single contract manufacturer to produce more than 80% of our hardware customer product requirements. Changes to this relationship may result in delays or disruptions that could harm our business. We depend on one independent contract manufacturer to manufacture, test and ship our products. We rely on purchase orders with our contract manufacturer to fulfill our product demands. Our contract manufacturer is not obligated to supply products to us for any specific period, quantity or price. It is time consuming and costly to qualify and implement a contract manufacturer relationship. Therefore, if our contract manufacturer suffers an interruption in its business, or experiences delays, disruptions or quality control problems in its manufacturing operations, or we have to change or add additional contract manufacturers, our ability to ship products to our customers would be delayed and our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. - 16 - Table of Contents We depend on single source component parts for certain product designs, and our reliance on third parties to manufacture certain aspects of our products involves risks, including delays in product shipments and reduced control over product quality. Generally, our products use industry standard components. In addition, some parts, such as ASICS, are custom-made to our specifications. While there are multiple sources for most of the component parts of our products, some components are sourced from single sources or from a limited number of outside suppliers. We typically do not have a written agreement with any of these component manufacturers to guarantee the supply of the key components used in our products, and we do not require our contract manufacturer to have written agreements with these component manufacturers. We regularly monitor the supply of the component parts and the availability of alternative sources. We provide forecasts to our contract manufacturer so that it can source the key components in advance of their anticipated use, with the objective of maintaining an adequate supply for use in the manufacture of our products. Our reliance upon third party contractors involve several risks, including reduced control over manufacturing costs, delivery times, reliability and quality of components. If we were to encounter a shortage of key manufacturing components from limited sources of supply, or experience manufacturing delays caused by reduced manufacturing capacity, inability of our contract manufacturers to procure raw materials, the loss of key assembly subcontractors, or other factors, we could experience lost revenues, increased costs, delays in, cancellations or rescheduling of orders or shipments, any of which would materially harm our business. If we fail to accurately predict our manufacturing requirements, we could incur additional costs or experience manufacturing delays that could harm our business. We provide demand forecasts to our contract manufacturer. If we overestimate our requirements, our contract manufacturer may assess charges or we may have liabilities for excess inventory, each of which could negatively affect our gross margins. Conversely, because lead times for required materials and components vary significantly and depend on factors such as the specific supplier, contract terms and the demand for each component at a given time, if we underestimate our requirements, our contract manufacturer may have inadequate materials and components required to produce our products, which could interrupt manufacturing of our products and result in delays in shipments and deferral or loss of revenues. Our future sales in international markets are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. Our business is becoming more dependent upon international markets. Our future sales in international markets are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including local economic and labor conditions, political instability including terrorism and other acts of war or hostility, unexpected changes in the regulatory environment, trade protection measures, tax laws, our ability to market current or develop new products suitable for international markets, difficulties with deployments and acceptances of products, obtaining and maintaining successful distribution and resale channels, changes in tariffs and foreign currency exchange rates, and longer payment cycles. These specific risks, or an overall reduction in the demand for or the sales of our products in international markets, could adversely affect future results. We face intense competition, which could result in our losing market share or experiencing a decline in our gross margins. The markets for some of our products are very competitive. Some of our competitors have greater technological, financial, manufacturing, sales and marketing, and personnel resources than we have. As a result, these competitors may have an advantage in responding more rapidly or effectively to changes in industry standards or technologies. We are facing competition with our IP-based testing solutions, and many competitive technologies, encompassing both hardware and software, are available in these markets. Moreover, better financed competitors may be better able to withstand the pricing pressures that increased competition may bring. If our introduction of improved products or services is not timely or well received, or if our competitors reduce their prices for products that are comparable to ours, demand for our products and services could be adversely affected. Competition from certain network element providers offering chip-based testing functionality may also intensify the pricing pressure for our telecommunications products and adversely affect future revenues from such products. We also face increasing pressure from certain of our large domestic carrier customers on software maintenance agreements, as they continue to divert spending from legacy networks to next generation network elements. We may also compete directly with our customers. Generally, we sell our products either directly or indirectly through OEM channels and other means to end-user telecommunications service providers. It is possible that our customers, as the result of bankruptcy or other rationales for dismantling network equipment, could attempt to resell our products. The successful development of such a secondary market for our products by a third party could negatively affect demand for our products, reducing our future revenues. - 17 - Table of Contents Our future results are dependent on our ability to establish, maintain and expand our distribution channels and our existing third-party distributors. We market and sell certain of our products, including our DigiTest and LDU products, through domestic and international OEM relationships. Our future results are dependent on our ability to establish, maintain and expand third party relationships with OEM as well as other marketing and sales distribution channels. If, however, the third parties with whom we have entered into such OEM and other arrangements should fail to meet their contractual obligations, cease doing, or reduce the amount of their business with us or otherwise fail to meet their own performance objectives, customer demand for our products could be adversely affected, which would have an adverse effect on our revenues. The sales cycle for our system products is long, and the delay or failure to complete one or more large transactions in a quarter could cause our operating results to fall below our expectations. The sales cycle for our system products is highly customer specific and can vary from a few weeks to many months. The system requirements of customers is highly dependent on many factors, including but not limited to their projections of business growth, capital budgets and anticipated cost savings from implementation of the system. Our delay or failure to complete one or more large transactions in a quarter could harm our operating results. Our systems involve significant capital commitments by customers. Potential customers generally commit significant resources to an evaluation of available enterprise software and system testing solutions and require us to expend substantial time, effort and money educating them about the value of our solutions. System sales often require an extensive sales effort throughout a customer’s organization because decisions to acquire software licenses and associated system hardware involve the evaluation of the products by a significant number of customer personnel in various functional and geographic areas, each often having specific and conflicting requirements. A variety of factors, including actions by competitors and other factors over which we have little or no control, may cause potential customers to favor a particular supplier or to delay or forego a purchase. Many of our products must comply with significant governmental and industry-based regulations, certifications, standards and protocols, some of which evolve as new technologies are deployed. Compliance with such regulations, certifications, standards and protocols may prove costly and time-consuming for us, and we cannot provide assurance that its products will continue to meet these standards in the future. In addition, regulatory compliance may present barriers to entry in particular markets or reduce the profitability of our product offerings. Such regulations, certifications, standards and protocols may also adversely affect the industries in which we compete, limit the number of potential customers for our products and services or otherwise have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to comply, or delays in compliance, with such regulations, standards and protocols or delays in receipt of such certifications could delay the introduction of new products or cause our existing products to become obsolete. The continued adoption of industry-wide standards in the telecommunications market could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. We are actively engaged in research to improve and expand our product offerings, including research and development to reduce product costs while providing enhancements; however, with the rise of industry-wide standards, among other factors, a number of our products have faced increased pricing pressure, driving lower margins. If sales of our network assurance and testing solutions do not increase, decrease rapidly, or are not accepted in the marketplace, or if our research and development activities do not produce marketable products that are both competitive and accepted by our customers, our overall revenues and profitability will be adversely affected. The presence of available open source software could adversely affect our ability to maximize revenue from software products. An emerging risk to our software development efforts is the presence of available open source software, which can allow our competitors and/or our customers to piece together a non-proprietary software solution relatively quickly. To the extent they are successful in developing software that meets their feature and benefit needs, revenue from our proprietary software could be adversely affected. Further, to the extent we incorporate open source into our software products, our ability to maximize revenue from our software products could be adversely impacted. Our customers are subject to an evolving governmental regulatory environment that could significantly reduce the demand for our products or increase our costs of doing business. Our domestic customers have historically been subject to a number of governmental regulations, many of which have been repealed or amended as a result of the passage of The Telecommunications Act of 1996. Deregulatory efforts have affected and likely will continue to affect our customers in several ways, including the introduction of competitive forces into the local telephone markets and - 18 - Table of Contents the imposition (or removal) of controls on the pricing of services. These and other regulatory changes may limit the scope of our customers’ deployments of future services and budgets for capital expenditures, which could significantly reduce the demand for our products. Moreover, as the FCC adopts new and amends existing regulations, and as the courts analyze the FCC’s authority to do so, our customers cannot accurately predict the rules which will regulate their conduct in their respective markets. Changes in the telecommunications regulatory environment could, among other results, increase our costs of doing business, require our customers to share assets with competitors or prevent the Company or our customers from engaging in business activities they may wish to conduct, which could adversely affect our future results. Similarly, our international customers are subject to a number of governmental regulations. Regulatory changes affect our customers in several ways, including the introduction of competitive forces, controls (or removal of controls), and new rules and limits. These and other regulatory changes may limit our customers, their service offerings, of spending, which could significantly reduce the demand for our products. Our limited ability to protect our proprietary information and technology may adversely affect our ability to compete, and our products could infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others, resulting in claims against us the results of which could be costly. Many of our products consist entirely or partly of proprietary technology owned by us. Although we seek to protect our technology through a combination of copyrights, trade secret laws, contractual obligations and patents, these protections may not be sufficient to prevent the wrongful appropriation of our intellectual property, nor will they prevent our competitors from independently developing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our proprietary technology. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. In order to defend our proprietary rights in the technology utilized in our products from third party infringement, we may be required to institute legal proceedings. If we are unable to successfully assert and defend our proprietary rights in the technology utilized in our products, our future results could be adversely affected. Although we attempt to avoid infringing known proprietary rights of third parties in our product development efforts, we may become subject to legal proceedings and claims for alleged infringement from time to time in the ordinary course of business. Any claims relating to the infringement of third-party proprietary rights, even if not meritorious, could result in costly litigation, divert management’s attention and resources, require us to reengineer or cease sales of our products or require us to enter into royalty or license agreements which are not advantageous to us. In addition, parties making claims may be able to obtain an injunction, which could prevent us from selling our products in the United States or abroad. In addition, the loss of patent protection for any of our products might allow competition, which, if successful, could cause our revenues from affected products to be materially adversely affected. In particular, our three patents for our MCU products will expire between 2010 and 2014. The success of some of our products is dependent on our ability to maintain licenses to technology from the manufacturers of systems with which our products must be compatible. Some of our products require that we license technology from manufacturers of systems with which our products must be compatible. The success of our proprietary MCU products, in particular, rely upon our ability to acquire and maintain licensing arrangements with the various manufacturers of DLC systems for the Proprietary Design Integrated Circuits (“PDICs”) unique to each. Although most of our PDIC licensing agreements have perpetual renewal terms, all of them can be terminated by either party. If we are unable to obtain the PDICs necessary for our MCU products to be compatible with a particular DLC system, we may be unable to satisfy the needs of our customers. Furthermore, future PDIC license agreements may contain terms comparable to, or materially different than, the terms of existing agreements, as dictated by competitive or other conditions. The loss of these PDIC license agreements, or our inability to maintain an adequate supply of PDICs on acceptable terms, could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we are unable to satisfy our customers’ specific product quality, certification or network requirements, our business could be disrupted and our financial condition could be harmed. Our customers demand that our products meet stringent quality, performance and reliability standards. We have, from time to time, experienced problems in satisfying such standards. Defects or failures have in the past, and may in the future occur relating to our product quality, performance and reliability. From time to time, our customers also require us to implement specific changes to our products to allow these products to operate within their specific network configurations. If we are unable to remedy these failures or - 19 - Table of Contents defects or if we cannot affect such required product modifications, we could experience lost revenues, increased costs, including inventory write-offs, warranty expense and costs associated with customer support, delays in or cancellations or rescheduling of orders or shipments and product returns or discounts, any of which would harm our business. If our accounting controls and procedures are circumvented or otherwise fail to achieve their intended purposes, our business could be seriously harmed. We evaluate our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of each fiscal quarter, and are annually reviewing and evaluating our internal controls over financial reporting in order to comply with SEC rules relating to internal control over financial reporting adopted pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. If we ship products that contain defects, the market acceptance of our products and our reputation will be harmed and our customers could seek to recover their damages from us. Our products, are complex, and despite extensive testing, may contain defects or undetected errors or failures that may become apparent only after our products have been shipped to our customers and installed in their network or after product features or new versions are released. Any such defect, error or failure could result in failure of market acceptance of our products or damage to our reputation or relations with our customers, resulting in substantial costs for us and for our customers as well as the cancellation of orders, warranty costs and product returns. In addition, any defects, errors, misuse of our products or other potential problems within or out of our control that may arise from the use of our products could result in financial or other damages to our customers. Our customers could seek to have us pay for these losses. Although we maintain product liability insurance, it may not be adequate. Compliance with environmental regulations could be costly, and noncompliance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, expenses and financial condition. Failure to comply with environmental regulations in the jurisdictions in which we do business could result in penalties and damage to our reputation. In effect in the European Union are the directive on the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (the “RoHS Directive”) and the directive on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (the “WEEE Directive”). Both the RoHS Directive and the WEEE Directive impact the form and manner in which electronic equipment is imported, sold and handled in the European Union. Other jurisdictions, such as China, have followed the European Union’s lead in enacting legislation with respect to hazardous substances and waste removal. Although we have concluded that our test and measurement products fall outside the scope of the RoHS Directive, we have voluntarily undertaken to cause our next generation products to comply with its requirements. Ensuring compliance with the RoHS Directive, the WEEE Directive and similar legislation in other jurisdictions, and integrating compliance activities with our suppliers and customers could result in additional costs and disruption to operations and logistics and thus, could have a negative impact on our business, operations and financial condition. In addition, based on our conclusion that our test and measurement products do not fall within the scope of these Directives, we have determined not to take these compliance measures with respect to certain of our older, legacy products. Should our conclusions with respect to the applicability of the RoHS Directive to these products be challenged and fail to prevail, we may be subject to monetary and non-monetary penalties, and could suffer harm to our reputation or further decline in the sales of our legacy products. We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could subject us to liability or impair our ability to compete in international markets. Our products are subject to United States import and export controls. Changes in our products or changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our products in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our products throughout their networks or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries altogether. Any change in export or import laws and regulations, shifts in approach to the enforcement or scope of existing laws and regulations, or change in the countries, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our products by, or in our decreased ability to import, export or sell our products to existing or potential customers with international operations. Any limitation on our ability to import, export or sell our products would likely adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Consolidations in, or a continued slowdown in, the telecommunications industry could harm our business. We have derived a substantial amount of our revenues from sales of products and related services to the telecommunications industry. In recent quarters, capital spending in the telecommunications industry has decreased and may continue to decrease in the future as a result of the challenging general economic conditions prevailing in domestic and international markets. In particular, large carrier - 20 - Table of Contents customers have been adversely affected by subscriber line losses as well as by competition from cable and wireless carriers and other carriers entering the local telephone service market. Certain emerging carriers also continue to be hampered by financial instability caused in large part by a lack of access to capital. In the event of continued or further significant decreases in capital spending of the telecommunications industry, our business would be adversely affected. Furthermore, as a result of industry consolidation, there may be fewer potential customers requiring our software in the future. Larger, consolidated telecommunications companies may also use their purchasing power to create pressure on the prices and the margins we could realize. We cannot be certain that consolidations in, or a slowdown in the growth of, the telecommunication industry will not harm our business. Our expenses are relatively fixed in the short term, and we may be unable to adjust spending to compensate for unexpected revenue shortfalls. We base our expense levels in part on forecasts of future orders and sales, which are extremely difficult to predict. A substantial portion of our operating expenses is related to personnel expense, facilities and public company costs. The level of spending for such expenses cannot be adjusted quickly and is, therefore, relatively fixed in the short term. Accordingly, our operating results will be harmed if revenues fall below our expectations in a particular quarter. We rely on software that we license from third-party developers to perform key functions in our products. We rely on software that we license from third parties, including software that is integrated with internally developed software and used in our products to perform key functions. We could lose the right to use this software or it could be made available to us only on commercially unreasonable terms. Although we believe that, in most cases, alternative software is available from other third-party suppliers or internal developments, the loss of or inability to maintain any of these software licenses or the inability of the third parties to enhance in a timely and cost-effective manner their products in response to changing customer needs, industry standards or technological developments could delay or reduce our product shipments until equivalent software could be developed internally or identified, licensed and integrated, which would harm our business. Our common stock price may be extremely volatile. Our common stock price has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile. The market price may vary in response to many factors, some of which are outside our control, including: • General market and economic conditions; • Changes in the telecommunications industry; • Actual or anticipated variations in operating results; • Announcements of technological innovations, new products or new services by us or by our competitors or customers; • Lack of research coverage by sell-side market analysts; • Announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, capital commitments or other strategic announcements; • Announcements by our customers regarding end market conditions and the status of existing and future infrastructure network deployments; • Additions or departures of key personnel; and • Future equity or debt offerings or our announcements of these offerings. In addition, in recent years, the stock market in general, and The NASDAQ Global Select Market and the securities of technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations have in the past and may in the future materially and adversely affect our stock price, regardless of our operating results. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been initiated against such company. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources that could harm our business regardless of the outcome of such litigation. We may be subject from time to time to legal proceedings, and any adverse determinations in these proceedings could materially harm our business. We may from time to time be involved in various lawsuits and legal proceedings, which arise in the ordinary course of business. Litigation matters are inherently unpredictable, and we cannot predict the outcome of any such matters. If we ultimately lose or settle a case, we may be liable for monetary damages and other costs of litigation. Even if we are entirely successful in a lawsuit, we may incur significant legal expenses and our management may expend significant time in the defense. An adverse resolution of a lawsuit or legal proceeding could negatively impact our financial position and results of operations. - 21 - Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 