Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our publicly-traded securities. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as competition, technological obsolescence, labor relations, general economic conditions, geopolitical changes and international operations. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business operations and our liquidity. The risks described below could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements we have made in this Report, the information incorporated herein by reference and those forward-looking statements we may make from time to time. Certain Risks Related to Our Marketplace and Environment Our revenue from the sale of computer aided design modeling and simulation software to the life science discovery research marketplace, which has historically constituted a significant portion of our overall revenue, has been declining over the past several years and may continue to decline in future years. Historically we have derived a significant portion of our revenue from the sale of computer aided design modeling and simulation software to the discovery research departments in pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Based on recurring analyses of incoming orders typically conducted by our sales and marketing departments, we estimate that orders for our computer aided design modeling and simulation software for the life science industry declined approximately 11% between fiscal year 2007 and fiscal year 2008, approximately 18% between fiscal year 2008 and 2009, and approximately 16% between fiscal year 2009 and 2010. While there is not a linear correlation between product orders and resulting revenue, we believe that our estimates of decreased product orders ultimately reflect a decline in revenue attributable to sales of our computer aided design modeling and simulation software products. We believe this decline is due to several factors, including industry consolidation, a general reduction in the level of discovery research activity by our customers, increased competition, including competition from open source software, and reductions in profit and related information technology spending by our customers. If such declines continue and we do not increase the revenue we derive from our other product and service offerings, our business could be adversely impacted. Our ability to sustain or increase revenues will depend upon our success in entering new markets and in deriving additional revenues from our existing customers. Our products are currently used primarily by molecular modeling and simulation specialists in discovery research organizations. One component of our overall business strategy is to derive more revenues from our existing customers by expanding their usage of our products and services. Such strategy would have our customers utilize our scientific informatics platform and our tools and components to leverage vast amounts of information stored in both corporate databases and public data sources in order to make informed scientific and business decisions during the research and development process. In addition, we seek to expand into new markets and new areas within our existing markets by attracting and retaining personnel knowledgeable in these markets, identifying the needs of these markets and developing marketing programs to address these needs. If successfully implemented, these strategies would increase the usage of our software and services by biologists, chemists, engineers and informaticians operating within our existing pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers, as well as by new customers in other industries. However, 10 Table of Contents if our strategies are not successfully implemented, our products and services may not achieve market acceptance or penetration in targeted new departments within our existing customers or in new industries. As a result, we may incur additional costs and expend additional resources without being able to sustain or increase revenue. Our focus on offering scientific business intelligence solutions to both existing and new customers and markets may make it more difficult for us to sustain our revenue from the sale of computer aided design modeling and simulation products to the life science discovery research marketplace. Our strategy involves transforming our product and service offerings by utilizing our scientific informatics platform and our tools and components in order to enable our customers to more effectively utilize the vast amounts of information stored in both their databases and public data sources in order to make informed scientific and business decisions during the research and development process. This strategy is intended to lead us to new and different markets and customers, as well as increase the usage of our offerings by existing customers. Executing this strategy will require significant management focus and utilization of resources. Though we intend to continue to dedicate sufficient resources and management focus to our life science computer aided design modeling and simulation products, it is possible that the strategy will result in loss of management focus and resources relating to these existing products and markets, thereby resulting in decreasing revenues from these markets. If these revenues are not offset by increasing revenues from new markets and/or customers, our overall revenues will suffer. We may be unable to develop strategic relationships with our customers. Our overall business strategy is to expand usage of our products and services by expanding our current customers’ usage of our products and by marketing and distributing our solutions to a broader, more diversified group of biologists, chemists, engineers and informaticians operating throughout our customers’ research and development organizations. A key component of this strategy is to become a preferred provider of scientific software and solutions. Becoming a preferred vendor will require substantial re-training and new skills development within our sales and service personnel and deployment of a successful account-management sales model. We believe that developing strategic relationships with our customers may lead to additional revenue opportunities. However, executing this strategy may require significant expense, and there can be no assurance that any such relationships will develop or that such relationships will produce additional revenue or profit opportunities. Consolidation within the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries may continue to lead to fewer potential customers for our products and services. A significant portion of our customer base consists of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Continued consolidation within the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries may result in fewer customers for our products and services. If one of the parties to a consolidation uses the products or services of our competitors, we may lose existing customers as a result of such consolidation. Increasing competition and increasing costs within the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries may affect the demand for our products and services, which may affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers’ demand for our products is impacted by continued demand for their products and by our customers’ research and development costs. Demand for our customers’ products could decline, and prices charged by our customers for their products may decline, as a result of increasing competition, including competition from companies manufacturing generic drugs. In addition, our customers’ expenses could continue to increase as a result of increasing costs of complying with government regulations and other factors. A decrease in demand for our customers’ products, pricing pressures associated with the sales of these products, and additional costs associated with product development could cause our customers to reduce research and development expenditures. Because our products and services depend on such research and development expenditures, our revenues may be significantly reduced. Health care reform and restrictions on reimbursement may affect the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and industrial chemical companies that purchase or license our products or services, which may affect our results of operations and financial condition. The continuing efforts of government and third-party payers in the markets we serve to contain or reduce the cost of health care may reduce the profitability of pharmaceutical, 11 Table of Contents biotechnology and industrial chemical companies causing them to reduce research and development expenditures. Because our products and services depend on such research and development expenditures, our revenues may be significantly reduced. We cannot predict what actions federal, state or private payers for health care goods and services may take in response to any health care reform proposals or legislation. We face strong competition in the life science market for computer aided design modeling and simulation software and for cheminformatics products. The market for our computer aided design modeling and simulation software products for the life science market is intensely competitive. We currently face competition from other scientific software providers, larger technology and solutions companies, in-house development by our customers, as well as academic and government institutions and the open source community. Some of our competitors and potential competitors in this sector have longer operating histories than we do and could have greater financial, technical, marketing, research and development and other resources. Many of our competitors offer products and services directed at more specific markets than those we target, enabling these competitors to focus a greater proportion of their efforts and resources on these markets. Some offerings that compete with our products are developed and made available at lower cost by government organizations and academic institutions, and these entities may be able to devote substantial resources to product development and also offer their products to users for little or no charge. We also face competition from open source software initiatives, in which developers provide software and intellectual property free over the Internet. In addition, many of our customers spend significant internal resources in order to develop their own software. Moreover, we intend to leverage our scientific informatics platform in order to enable our customers to more effectively utilize the vast amounts of information stored in both their databases and public data sources in order to make informed scientific and business decisions during the research and development process. This strategy could lead to competition from much larger companies which provide general data storage and management software. There can be no assurance that our current or potential competitors will not develop products, services or technologies that are comparable to, superior to, or render obsolete, the products, services and technologies we offer. There can be no assurance that our competitors will not adapt more quickly than us to technological advances and customer demands, thereby increasing such competitors’ market share relative to ours. Any material decrease in demand for our technologies or services may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to pricing pressures in some of the markets we serve. The market for computer aided design modeling and simulation products for the life science industry is intensely competitive, which has led to significant pricing pressure and declines in average selling price over the past several years. Based on recurring analyses of incoming orders typically conducted by our sales and marketing departments, we estimate that the average sales price of our computer aided design modeling and simulation products for the life science industry declined approximately 6% between fiscal year 2007 and fiscal year 2008, approximately 10% between fiscal year 2008 and fiscal year 2009, and approximately 14% between fiscal year 2009 and fiscal year 2010. While there is not a linear correlation between our product pricing and competition in the marketplace, we believe that our estimates of decreased prices ultimately reflect increased competition that has led and may continue to lead to pricing pressure with respect to sales of these products. In response to such increased competition and general adverse economic conditions in this market, we may be required to further modify our pricing practices. Changes in our pricing model could adversely affect our revenue and earnings. Our operations may be interrupted by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event at our primary facilities. Our research and development operations and administrative functions are primarily conducted at our facilities in San Diego, California, and Cambridge, United Kingdom. We also conduct sales and customer support activities at our facilities in Burlington, Massachusetts, Paris, France, and Tokyo, Japan. Although we have contingency plans in effect for natural disasters or other catastrophic events, the occurrence of such events could still disrupt our operations. For example, our San Diego and Tokyo facilities are located in areas that are particularly susceptible to earthquakes. Any natural disaster or catastrophic event in our facilities or the areas in which they are located could have a significant negative impact on our operations. 12 Table of Contents Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to avoid material impact on our financial position or results of operations resulting from claims or liabilities against us, and we may not be able to obtain insurance coverage in the future. We maintain insurance coverage for protection against many risks of liability. The extent of our insurance coverage is under continuous review and is modified as we deem it necessary. Despite this insurance, it is possible that claims or liabilities against us may have a material adverse impact on our financial position or results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to obtain any insurance coverage, or adequate insurance coverage, when our existing insurance coverage expires. For example, we do not carry earthquake insurance for our facilities in Tokyo, Japan or San Diego, California, because we do not believe the costs of such insurance are reasonable in relation to the potential risk. Certain Risks Related to Our Operations Defects or malfunctions in our products could hurt our reputation among our customers, result in delayed or lost revenue and expose us to liability. Our business and the level of customer acceptance of our products depend upon the continuous, effective and reliable operation of our software and related tools and functions. To the extent that defects cause our software to malfunction and our customers’ use of our products is interrupted, our reputation could suffer and our revenue could decline or be delayed while such defects are remedied. We may also be subject to liability for the defects and malfunctions of third-party technology partners and others with whom our products and services are integrated. Delays in the release of new or enhanced products or services or undetected errors in our products or services may result in increased cost to us, delayed market acceptance of our products and delayed or lost revenue. To achieve market acceptance, new or enhanced products or services can require long development and testing periods, which may result in delays in scheduled introduction. Any delays in the release schedule for new or enhanced products or services may delay market acceptance of these products or services and may result in delays in new customer orders for these new or enhanced products or services or the loss of customer orders. In addition, new or enhanced products or services may contain a number of undetected errors or “bugs” when they are first released. Although we test each new or enhanced software product or service before it is released to the market, there can be no assurance that significant errors will not be found in existing or future releases. As a result, in the months following the introduction of certain releases, we may need to devote significant resources to correct these errors. There can be no assurance, however, that all of these errors can be corrected. We are subject to risks associated with the operation of a global business. We derive a significant portion of our total revenue from our operations in international markets. In 2010, 2009 and 2008, 54%, 52% and 51%, respectively, of our total revenue was derived from our international operations. Our global business may be affected by local economic conditions, including inflation, recession and currency exchange rate fluctuations. In addition, political and economic changes throughout the world may interfere with our or our customers’ activities in particular locations and result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We anticipate that revenue from operations in international markets will continue to account for a significant percentage of future revenue. The following table depicts our region-specific revenue as a percent of total revenue for each of the last three fiscal years: Years Ended Region March 31,2010 March 31,2009 March 31,2008 U.S. 46 % 48 % 49 % Europe 30 % 28 % 29 % Asia-Pacific 24 % 24 % 22 % Other potential risks inherent in our international business include: • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • longer payment cycles; 13 Table of Contents • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • import and export license requirements; • tariffs and other barriers; • political unrest, terrorism and economic instability; • disruption of our operations due to local labor conditions; • limited intellectual property protection; • difficulties in collecting trade receivables; • difficulties in managing distributors or representatives; • difficulties in managing an organization spread over various countries; • difficulties in staffing foreign subsidiary or joint venture operations; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and address these risks. There can be no assurance that we will do so effectively, or that these or other factors relating to our international operations will not adversely affect our business or operating results. In order to improve our financial position, we have reduced our headcount, which could negatively impact our business. We have undergone several reductions-in-force over the past several years, and our workforce has declined approximately 25% since March 31, 2006. We do not believe that these reductions have had a material adverse effect on our operations or our ability to generate revenue to date. However, while we believe we have sufficient staff to operate our business, we do not have duplicative or redundant resources in many of our functions or operations. As a result, there can be no assurance that further attrition will not impact our ability to operate our business, or adversely impact our revenues. Failure to attract and retain skilled personnel, could have a material adverse effect on us. Our success depends in part on the continued service of key scientific, sales, business development, marketing, engineering, management and accounting personnel and our ability to identify, hire and retain additional personnel. There is intense competition for qualified personnel. Immigration laws may further restrict our ability to attract or hire qualified personnel. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the development of our business. Failure to attract and retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, we are highly dependent on the principal members of our technical, scientific and management staff. One or more of these key employees could retire or otherwise leave our employ within the foreseeable future, and the loss of any of these people could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We do not intend to maintain key person life insurance on the life of any employee. Continued turmoil in the worldwide financial markets may negatively impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition. As widely reported, financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia have been experiencing extreme disruption in recent months, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, declining valuations of certain investments, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, the failure or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of government intervention. Many economists believe that the United States economy, and possibly the global economy, is in the midst of a prolonged recession. This protracted downturn may hurt our business in a number of ways, including through general decreases in spending and the adverse impact on our customers’ ability to obtain financing, which may lead to delays or failures in our signing customer agreements or signing customer agreements at reduced purchase levels. While we are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruption in the financial markets and the adverse economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries, any of the circumstances mentioned above could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, financial condition and results of operations 14 Table of Contents If we choose to acquire businesses, products or technologies instead of developing them ourselves, we may be unable to complete these acquisitions or to successfully integrate an acquired business or technology in a cost-effective and non-disruptive manner. From time to time, we may choose to acquire businesses, products or technologies instead of developing them ourselves. We do not know if we will be able to complete any acquisitions, or whether we will be able to successfully integrate any acquired businesses, operate them profitably or retain their key employees. Integrating any business, product or technology we acquire could be expensive and time-consuming, disrupt our ongoing business and distract company management. In addition, in order to finance any acquisition, we may utilize our existing funds, thereby lowering the amount of funds we currently have, or might need to raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt financings. Prolonged tightening of the financial markets may impact our ability to obtain financing to fund future acquisitions and we could be forced to obtain financing on less than favorable terms. Additionally, equity financings may result in dilution to our stockholders. If we are unable to integrate any acquired entities, products or technologies effectively, our business could suffer. In addition, under certain circumstances, amortization of assets or charges resulting from the costs of acquisitions could harm our business, financial condition, or operating results. Certain Risks Related To Our Financial Performance We have a history of losses and our future profitability is uncertain. We generated net losses for the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006. Although we generated net income for the years ended March 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, we may experience future net losses which may limit our ability to fund our operations and we may not generate income from operations in the future. Our future profitability depends upon many factors, including several that are beyond our control. These factors include without limitation: • changes in the demand for our products and services; • the introduction of competitive software; • our ability to license desirable technologies; • changes in the research and development budgets of our customers and potential customers; • our ability to successfully, cost effectively and timely develop, introduce and market new products, services and product enhancements; and • the acquisition of any new entities or businesses which may have a dilutive effect upon our earnings. Our sales forecast and/or revenue projections may not be accurate. We use a “pipeline” system, a common industry practice, to forecast sales and trends in our business. Our sales personnel monitor the status of proposals, including the date when they estimate a customer will make a purchase decision and the potential size of the order. We aggregate these estimates on a quarterly basis in order to generate a sales pipeline. While the pipeline process provides us with some guidance in business planning and forecasting, it is based on estimates only and is therefore subject to risks and uncertainties. Any variation in the conversion of the pipeline into revenue or the pipeline itself could cause us to improperly plan or budget and thereby adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to license software to, or collect receivables from, our customers our operating results may be adversely affected. While the majority of our current customers are well-established, large pharmaceutical customers and universities, we also provide products and services to smaller biotechnology companies. We have not experienced significant customer defaults during the past three fiscal years. Our financial success depends upon the creditworthiness and ultimate collection of amounts due from our customers, including our smaller customers with fewer financial resources. If we are not able to collect from our customers, we may be required to write-off significant accounts receivable and recognize bad debt expenses which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. 15 Table of Contents Our quarterly operating results, particularly our quarterly cash flows, may fluctuate. Quarterly operating results may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including lengthy sales cycles, market acceptance of new products and upgrades, timing of new product introductions, changes in pricing policies, changes in general economic and competitive conditions, and the timing and integration of acquisitions. We may also experience fluctuations in quarterly operating results due to general and industry specific economic conditions that may affect the research and development expenditures of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. In particular, historically we have received approximately two-thirds of our annual customer orders in the second half of our fiscal year. In accordance with our revenue recognition policies, the revenue associated with these orders is generally recognized over the contractual license term. Therefore, because we accrue sales commissions and royalties upon the receipt of customer orders, we generally experience an increase in operating costs and expenses during the second half of our fiscal year with only a minimal corresponding incremental increase in revenue. Additionally, our cash flows from operations have historically been positive in the fiscal quarter ended March 31 as we collect the accounts receivable generated from these customer orders, while we have historically experienced negative cash flows from operations in the other three fiscal quarters. As a result of these seasonal variations, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance and that our interim financial results are not necessarily indicative of results for a full year or for any subsequent interim period. We may be required to indemnify Pharmacopeia Drug Discovery, Inc. (“PDD”), or may not be able to collect on indemnification rights from PDD. On April 30, 2004, we spun-off our drug discovery subsidiary, PDD, into an independent, separately traded, publicly held company through the distribution to our stockholders of a dividend of one share of PDD common stock for every two shares of our common stock. As part of the spin-off, we agreed to indemnify the indebtedness, liabilities and obligations of PDD. One such obligation includes a guarantee by us to the landlord of PDD’s obligations under certain facility leases, with respect to which PDD will indemnify us should we be required to make any payment under the guarantee. These indemnification obligations could be as significant as the remaining future minimum lease payments, which totaled approximately $14.9 million as of March 31, 2010. PDD’s ability to satisfy any such indemnification obligations (including, without limitation, PDD’s commitment to indemnify us in the event of our payment under our guarantee of its leases) will depend upon PDD’s future financial strength. We cannot assure you that, if PDD becomes obligated to indemnify us for any substantial obligations, PDD will have the ability to do so. There also can be no assurance that we will be able to satisfy any indemnification obligations to PDD. Any failure by PDD to satisfy its obligations and any required payment by us could have a material adverse effect on our business. Enacted and proposed changes in securities laws and regulations have increased our costs and may continue to increase our costs in the future. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley”) required changes in some of our corporate governance and securities disclosure and compliance practices. Under Sarbanes-Oxley, publicly-held companies, including us, are required to, among other things, furnish independent annual audit reports regarding the existence and reliability of their internal control over financial reporting and have their chief executive officer and chief financial officer certify as to the accuracy and completeness of their financial reports. We expect continued compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley to remain costly. Further, Sarbanes-Oxley and the related SEC and NASDAQ compliance rules may make it more difficult and expensive for us to maintain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. These laws and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, or qualified executive officers. We continually evaluate and monitor regulatory developments and cannot estimate the timing or magnitude of additional costs we may incur as a result. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Our international sales generally are denominated in local currencies. Fluctuations in the value of currencies in which we conduct business relative to the United States dollar result in 16 Table of Contents currency transaction gains and losses, and the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations cannot be accurately predicted. Future fluctuations in currency exchange rates may have a material adverse impact on revenue from international sales, and thus on our business, financial condition and results of operations. When deemed appropriate, we may engage in currency exchange rate hedging transactions in an attempt to mitigate the impact of adverse exchange rate fluctuations. However, currency hedging policies may not be successful, and they may increase the negative impact of exchange rate fluctuations. If we consume cash more quickly than expected, we may be unable to raise additional capital and we may be forced to curtail operations. We anticipate that our existing capital resources will be adequate to fund our operations for at least the next twelve months. However, our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the potential acquisition of other businesses or technologies. If we determine that we must raise additional capital, we may attempt to do so through public or private financings involving debt or equity. However, additional capital may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to curtail operations significantly or to obtain funds by entering into arrangements with collaborative partners or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, products or potential markets that we would not otherwise relinquish. Negative conditions in the global credit markets may materially impair the value or reduce the liquidity of a portion of our investment portfolio. Recent U.S. sub-prime mortgage defaults have had a significant impact across various sectors of the financial markets, causing global credit and liquidity issues. The short-term funding markets experienced credit issues from the second half of calendar 2007 and through the fourth quarter of calendar 2008, which led to liquidity issues and failed auctions in the auction rate securities (“ARS”) market. If the global credit market continues to deteriorate, the liquidity of our investment portfolio may continue to be impacted. Included in our marketable securities portfolio at March 31, 2010 were ARS that we purchased for $11.8 million. Under the terms of the agreement (the “ARS Agreement”) that we entered into on November 11, 2008 (the “Acceptance Date”) with one of our investment securities firms (the “Investment Firm”), we have the right to sell our ARS at par value to the Investment Firm between June 30, 2010 and July 2, 2012 and the Investment Firm has the right to purchase the ARS from us any time after the Acceptance Date as long as we receive par value. If the ARS Agreement expires or is otherwise terminated prior to the purchase or sale of the ARS under the terms of the ARS Agreement, or if the Investment Firm is unable to fulfill its obligations under the ARS Agreement, we may have no recourse beyond recovering or retaining the ARS for sale at future auctions. If such future auctions fail and the credit ratings of these investments deteriorate, the fair value of these ARS may decline further and we may incur additional impairment charges in connection with these securities, which would negatively affect our reported earnings, cash flows and financial condition. Certain Risks Related to Owning Our Stock We expect that our stock price will fluctuate significantly, and as a result, our stockholders may not be able to resell their shares at or above their original investment price. The stock market, historically and in recent years, has experienced significant volatility particularly with technology company stocks. The volatility of technology company stock prices often does not relate to the operating performance of the companies represented by the stock. Factors that could cause volatility in the price of our common stock include without limitation: • actual and anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial and operating results; • market conditions in the technology and software sectors; • issuance of new or changed securities analysts’ reports or recommendations; • developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or other proprietary rights or other legal claims; 17 Table of Contents • introduction of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors; • market acceptance of our products and services; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • the acquisition of new businesses or technologies These and other external factors may cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. As institutions hold the majority of our common stock in large blocks, substantial sales by these stockholders could depress the market price for our shares. As of April 14, 2010, the top ten institutional holders of our common stock held approximately 44% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, if one or more of these major stockholders were to sell all or a portion of their holdings, or if the market were to perceive that such sale or sales may occur, the market price of our common stock may fall significantly. Because we do not intend to pay dividends, our stockholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if our stock price appreciates in value. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to finance the expansion of our business and do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend entirely upon any future appreciation in its value. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which it was purchased. Anti-takeover provisions under the Delaware General Corporation Law, provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and our adoption of a stockholder rights plan may make the accomplishment of mergers or the assumption of control by a principal stockholder more difficult, thereby making the removal of management more difficult. Certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may delay or deter attempts to secure control of our company without the consent of our management. Also, our governing documents provide for a staggered board of directors, which will make it more difficult for a potential acquirer to gain control of our board of directors. In 2002, we adopted a stockholder rights plan, which is triggered upon commencement or announcement of a hostile tender offer or when any one person or group acquires 15% or more of our common stock. The rights plan, once triggered, enables our stockholders (other than the stockholder responsible for triggering the rights plan) to purchase our common stock at reduced prices. These provisions of our governing documents and stockholder rights plan, and of Delaware law, could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control, including without limitation a proxy contest, making the acquisition of a substantial block of our common stock more difficult. The provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Further, the existence of these anti-takeover measures may cause potential bidders to look elsewhere, rather than initiating acquisition discussions with us. Certain Risks Related to Intellectual Property We may not be able to protect adequately the trade secrets and confidential information that we disclose to our employees. We rely upon trade secrets, technical know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. Competitors through their independent discovery (or improper means, such as unauthorized disclosure or industrial espionage) may come to know our proprietary information. We generally require employees and consultants to execute confidentiality and assignment-of-inventions agreements. These agreements typically provide that all materials and confidential information developed by or made known to the employee or consultant during his, her or its relationship with us are to be kept confidential, and that all inventions arising out of the employee’s or consultant’s relationship with us are our exclusive property. Our employees and consultants may breach these agreements, and in some instances we may not have an adequate remedy. Additionally, in some instances, we may have failed to require that employees and consultants execute confidentiality and assignment-of-inventions agreements. 18 Table of Contents Foreign laws may not afford us sufficient protections for our intellectual property, and we may not seek patent protection outside the United States. We believe that our success depends, in part, upon our ability to obtain international protection for our intellectual property. However, the laws of some foreign countries may not be as comprehensive as those of the United States and may not be sufficient to protect our proprietary rights abroad. In addition, we generally do not pursue patent protection outside the United States because of cost and confidentiality concerns. Accordingly, our international competitors could obtain foreign patent protection for, and market overseas, products and technologies for which we are seeking patent protection in the United States. A patent issued to us may not be sufficiently broad to protect adequately our rights in intellectual property to which the patent relates. Due to cost and other considerations, we generally do not rely on patent protection to enforce our intellectual property rights, and have filed only a limited number of patent applications. Even if patents are issued to us, these patents may not sufficiently protect our interest in our software or other technologies because the scope of protection provided by any patents issued to or licensed by us are subject to the uncertainty inherent in patent law. Third parties may be able to design around these patents or develop unique products providing effects similar to our products. In addition, others may discover uses for our software or technologies other than those uses covered in our patents, and these other uses may be separately patentable. A number of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, software organizations and research and academic institutions, have developed technologies, filed patent applications or received patents on various technologies that may be related to our business. Some of these technologies, patent applications or patents may conflict with our technologies, patent applications or patents. These conflicts could also limit the scope of patents, if any, that we may be able to obtain, or result in the denial of our patent applications. We may be subject to claims of infringement by third parties. A number of patents may have been issued or may be issued in the future that could cover certain aspects of our technology or functionality of our products and could prevent us from using technology that we use or expect to use, or making or selling certain of our products. In addition, to the extent our employees are involved in research areas similar to those areas in which they were involved at their former employers, we may inadvertently use or disclose alleged trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employer. Thus, our products may infringe patent or other intellectual property rights of third parties, and we may be subject to infringement claims by third parties. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, divert management’s attention and resources, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such licenses may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In the event of a successful claim of product infringement against us, our failure or inability to license or design around the infringed technology could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Third-party software codes incorporated into our products could subject us to liability or limit our ability to sell such products. Some of our products include software codes licensed from third parties, including the open source community. Some of these licenses impose certain obligations upon us, including royalty and indemnification obligations. In the case of codes licensed from the open source community, the licenses may also limit our ability to sell products containing such code. Though we generally review the applicable licenses prior to incorporating third party code into our software products, there can be no assurance that such third party codes incorporated into our products would not subject us to liability or limit our ability to sell the products containing such code, thereby having a material adverse affect upon our business. Risks Related to the Merger Because the Exchange Ratio is fixed and will not be adjusted in the event of changes in the price of either Accelrys’s or Symyx’s common stock, the market value of the shares of Accelrys common stock to be received by the Symyx stockholders in connection with the Merger is subject to change prior to the completion of the Merger. The Exchange Ratio is fixed such that each share of Symyx common stock will be converted into the right to receive 0.7802 shares of Accelrys common stock in connection with the Merger. No adjustments to this Exchange Ratio will be made based on changes in the price of either the Accelrys common stock or Symyx common stock prior to the completion of the Merger. Changes in stock price may result from a variety of factors, 19 Table of Contents including, among others, general market and economic conditions, changes in Accelrys’s or Symyx’s respective businesses, operations and prospects, market assessment of the likelihood that the Merger will be completed as anticipated or at all and regulatory considerations. Many of these factors are beyond Accelrys’s or Symyx’s control. As a result of any such changes in stock price, the market value of the shares of Accelrys common stock that the Symyx stockholders will receive at the time that the Merger is completed could vary significantly from the value of such shares on the date of this Report, the dates of the stockholder meetings we and Symyx plan to conduct or the date on which the Symyx stockholders actually receive their shares of Accelrys common stock in connection with the Merger. For example, based on the range of closing prices of Accelrys common stock during the period from April 1, 2010, the last trading day before the public announcement of the Merger, through May 13, 2010, the Exchange Ratio represented a market value ranging from a low of $5.07 to a high of $5.79 for each share of Symyx common stock. Accordingly, at the time of each company’s upcoming stockholder meeting, neither the Accelrys stockholders nor the Symyx stockholders, as the case may be, will know or be able to calculate the exact market value of the consideration the Symyx stockholders will receive upon completion of the Merger. Changes in the number of shares of outstanding common stock of either Accelrys or Symyx prior to the completion of the Merger would result in a corresponding change to the relative ownership percentages of the current Accelrys stockholders and the current Symyx stockholders of the combined company. Based on the number of shares of Accelrys common stock and Symyx common stock outstanding as of May 13, 2010, if the Merger had been completed on such date, the holders of Symyx common stock would have been entitled to receive shares of Accelrys common stock representing approximately 49.8% of all shares of Accelrys common stock outstanding as of immediately following the completion of the Merger. Accelrys stockholders would have continued to own their existing shares, which would not be affected by the Merger, and such shares would have represented approximately 50.2% of all shares of Accelrys common stock outstanding as of immediately following the completion of the Merger. However, because the Exchange Ratio is fixed, to the extent that the number of shares of outstanding common stock of either Accelrys or Symyx changes prior to the completion of the Merger, whether due to any new issuance of shares of Accelrys common stock or Symyx common stock, any exercise of any outstanding options or other rights to purchase shares of Accelrys common stock or Symyx common stock or otherwise, there will automatically occur a corresponding change in the relative ownership percentages of the current Accelrys stockholders and the current Symyx stockholders of the combined company. Though it is theoretically possible that this change in relative ownership percentages could result in Symyx stockholders holding more than a majority of the outstanding shares of Accelrys common stock following the completion of the Merger, each of Accelrys and Symyx believes that the probability of such outcome is highly unlikely. Accordingly, the disclosure relating to the effects of the Merger assumes that the Symyx stockholders are issued shares of Accelrys common stock representing less than 50% of the combined company upon completion of the Merger. The announcement and pendency of the Merger could have an adverse effect on Accelrys’s stock price, business, financial condition, results of operations or business prospects. While there have been no significant adverse effects to date, the announcement and pendency of the Merger could disrupt Accelrys’s business in the following ways, among others: • customers and other third-party business partners of Accelrys or Symyx may seek to terminate and/or renegotiate their relationships with Accelrys as a result of the Merger, whether pursuant to the terms of their existing agreements with Accelrys or otherwise; • the attention of Accelrys management may be directed toward the completion of the Merger and related matters and may be diverted from the day-to-day business operations of their respective companies, including from other opportunities that might otherwise be beneficial to Accelrys; and • current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty regarding their future roles with the combined company, which might adversely affect Accelrys’s ability to retain, recruit and motivate key personnel. 20 Table of Contents Should they occur, any of these matters could adversely affect the stock prices of, or harm the financial condition, results of operations or business prospects of, Accelrys. Some of the directors and executive officers of Accelrys have interests in the Merger that are different from, or in addition to, those of the other Accelrys stockholders. Certain of the directors and executive officers of Accelrys have arrangements that provide them with interests in the Merger that are different from, or in addition to, those of the stockholders of Accelrys . For instance, in connection with the Merger, each director of the Accelrys board of directors will continue to serve as a director of the combined company following the completion of the Merger. Likewise, Messrs. Carnecchia and Piraino will continue to serve as the President and Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, respectively, of the combined company following the completion of the Merger. The Merger Agreement contains provisions that could discourage or make it difficult for a third party to acquire Accelrys prior to the completion of the Merger. The Merger Agreement contains provisions that make it difficult for Accelrys to entertain a third-party proposal for an acquisition of Accelrys. These provisions include the general prohibition on Accelrys’s soliciting or engaging in discussions or negotiations regarding any alternative acquisition proposal, the requirement that Accelrys pay a termination fee of $7.5 million to Symyx if the Merger Agreement is terminated in specified circumstances and the requirement that Accelrys submit certain proposals relating to the Merger, to a vote of its stockholders even if the Accelrys board of directors changes its recommendation with respect to such proposals. These provisions might discourage an otherwise-interested third party from considering or proposing an acquisition of Accelrys, even one that may be deemed of greater value than the Merger to Accelrys stockholders. Furthermore, even if a third party elects to propose an acquisition, the concept of a termination fee may result in that third party’s offering of a lower value to Accelrys stockholders than such third party might otherwise have offered. Failure to complete the Merger could negatively impact Accelrys’s business, financial condition, results of operations or stock price. The completion of the Merger is subject to a number of conditions and there can be no assurance that the conditions to the completion of the Merger will be satisfied. If the Merger is not completed, Accelrys will be subject to several risks, including: • the current prices of Accelrys common stock may reflect a market assumption that the Merger will occur, meaning that a failure to complete the Merger could result in a decline in the price of the Accelrys common stock ; • Accelrys , may be required to pay a termination fee of $7.5 million (or reimbursement of expenses of $1 million) to Symyx if the Merger Agreement is terminated under certain circumstances; • Accelrys is expected to incur substantial transaction costs in connection with the Merger whether or not the Merger is completed; • Accelrys would not realize any of the anticipated benefits of having completed the Merger; and • under the Merger Agreement, Accelrys is subject to certain restrictions on the conduct of its business prior to completing the Merger, which restrictions could adversely affect its ability to realize certain of its business strategies. If the Merger is not completed, these risks may materialize and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or stock prices. Several lawsuits have been filed against Symyx, the members of its board of directors, certain of its executive officers, Accelrys and Merger Sub challenging the Merger, and an adverse judgment in any such lawsuit may prevent the Merger from becoming effective or from becoming effective within the expected timeframe. Symyx, the members of the Symyx board of directors, certain executive officers of Symyx, Accelrys 21 Table of Contents and Merger Sub have been named as defendants in several purported class action lawsuits brought by individual Symyx stockholders challenging the proposed Merger and seeking, among other things, to enjoin the defendants from completing the Merger pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement. These lawsuits have been consolidated into a single action. One of the conditions to the completion of the Merger is that no temporary restraining order, preliminary or permanent injunction or other order preventing the completion of the Merger shall have been issued by any court of competent jurisdiction and be in effect. Consequently, if the plaintiffs are successful in obtaining an injunction prohibiting the parties from completing the Merger pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, such an injunction may prevent the completion of the Merger in the expected timeframe (or altogether). Obtaining required approvals necessary to satisfy the conditions to the completion of the Merger may delay or prevent completion of the Merger. The completion of the Merger is conditioned upon the receipt of certain governmental authorizations, consents, orders or other approvals. Accelrys and Symyx intend to pursue all required approvals in accordance with the Merger Agreement. Further, no assurance can be given that the required approvals will be obtained and, even if all such approvals are obtained, no assurance can be given as to the terms, conditions and timing of the approvals or that they will satisfy the terms of the Merger Agreement. Risks Related to the Combined Company if the Merger Is Completed The failure to integrate successfully the businesses of Accelrys and Symyx in the expected timeframe would adversely affect the combined company’s future results following the completion of the Merger. The success of the Merger will depend, in large part, on the ability of the combined company following the completion of the Merger to realize the anticipated benefits, including annual net operating synergies, from combining the businesses of Accelrys and Symyx. To realize these anticipated benefits, the combined company must successfully integrate the businesses of Accelrys and Symyx. This integration will be complex and time-consuming. The failure to integrate successfully and to manage successfully the challenges presented by the integration process may result in the combined company’s failure to achieve some or all of the anticipated benefits of the Merger. Potential difficulties that may be encountered in the integration process include the following: • lost sales and customers as a result of customers of either of the two companies deciding not to do business with the combined company; • complexities associated with managing the larger, more complex, combined business; • integrating personnel from the two companies while maintaining focus on providing consistent, high quality products; • potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen expenses, delays or regulatory conditions associated with the Merger; and • performance shortfalls at one or both of the companies as a result of the diversion of management’s attention caused by completing the Merger and integrating the companies’ operations. The combined company’s future results will suffer if the combined company does not effectively manage its expanded operations following the Merger. Following the Merger, the size of the combined company’s business will be significantly larger than the current businesses of Accelrys and Symyx. The combined company’s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to manage this expanded business, which will pose substantial challenges for the combined company’s management, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of new operations and associated increased costs and complexity. Neither Accelrys nor Symyx can assure you that the combined company will be successful or that the combined company will realize the expected operating efficiencies, annual net operating synergies, revenue enhancements and other benefits currently anticipated to result from the Merger. 22 Table of Contents The Merger may not be accretive and may cause dilution to the combined company’s earnings per share, which may negatively impact the price of the common stock of the combined company following the completion of the Merger. Accelrys and Symyx currently anticipate that the Merger will be accretive to the earnings per share of the combined company during the first full calendar year after the Merger is completed. This expectation is based on preliminary estimates and assumes certain synergies expected to be realized by the combined company during such time. Such estimates and assumptions could materially change due to additional transaction-related costs, the failure to realize any or all of the benefits expected in the Merger or other factors beyond the control of Accelrys and Symyx. All of these factors could delay, decrease or eliminate the expected accretive effect of the Merger and cause resulting dilution to the combined company’s earnings per share or to the price of the common stock of the combined company. The issuance of shares of Accelrys common stock to Symyx stockholders in connection with the Merger will substantially dilute the voting power of current Accelrys stockholders. Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, and based on the number of shares of Symyx common stock and restricted stock units outstanding as of the date of the Merger Agreement, it is anticipated that Accelrys will issue shares of Accelrys common stock to Symyx stockholders representing slightly less than a majority of the outstanding shares of common stock of Accelrys as of immediately following the completion of the Merger. Accordingly, the issuance of shares of Accelrys common stock to Symyx stockholders in connection with the Merger will significantly reduce the relative voting power of each share of Accelrys common stock held by current Accelrys stockholders. The Merger will result in changes to the Accelrys board of directors that may affect the combined company’s operations. If the parties complete the Merger, the composition of the Accelrys board of directors will change in accordance with the Merger Agreement. Following the completion of the Merger, the combined company’s board of directors will consist of 10 members, including the six current directors of Accelrys and four of the current directors of Symyx. This new composition of the board of directors may affect the business strategy and operating decisions of the combined company upon completion of the Merger. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on the combined company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. The success of the Merger will depend in part on the combined company’s ability to retain key Accelrys and Symyx employees who continue employment with the combined company after the Merger is completed. It is possible that these employees might decide not to remain with the combined company after the Merger is completed. If these key employees terminate their employment, the combined company’s sales, marketing or development activities might be adversely affected, management’s attention might be diverted from successfully integrating Symyx’s operations to recruiting suitable replacements and the combined company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, the combined company might not be able to locate suitable replacements for any such key employees who leave the combined company or offer employment to potential replacements on reasonable terms. The success of the combined company will also depend on relationships with third parties and pre-existing customers of Accelrys and Symyx, which relationships may be affected by customer preferences or public attitudes about the Merger. Any adverse changes in these relationships could adversely affect the combined company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. The combined company’s success will be dependent on the ability to maintain and renew relationships with pre-existing customers and other clients of both Accelrys and Symyx and to establish new client relationships. There can be no assurance that the business of the combined company will be able to maintain pre-existing customer contracts and other business relationships, or enter into or maintain new customer contracts and other business relationships, on acceptable terms, if at all. The failure to maintain important customer relationships could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition or results of operations of the combined company. The combined company’s ability to utilize its net operating loss carryforwards in the future may be substantially limited by Section 382 of the Code. In general, under Section 382 of the Code, a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change net operating loss 23 Table of Contents carryforwards to offset future taxable income. In general, an ownership change occurs if the aggregate stock ownership of certain stockholders increases by more than 50 percentage points over such stockholders’ lowest percentage ownership during the testing period (which is generally three years). The amount of the annual limitation is generally equal to the value of the stock of the corporation immediately prior to the ownership change, multiplied by the adjusted federal tax-exempt rate set by the IRS. As a result of the Merger, it is possible that either or both of Accelrys and Symyx will be deemed to have undergone an “ownership change” for purposes of Section 382 of the Code. Accordingly, the combined company’s ability to utilize Accelrys’s and Symyx’s net operating loss carryforwards may be substantially limited as described in the preceding paragraph. These limitations could in turn result in increased future tax payments for the combined company, which could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition or results of operations of the combined company. The price of Accelrys common stock after the Merger is completed may be affected by factors different from those currently affecting the shares of Accelrys or Symyx. Upon completion of the Merger, holders of Symyx common stock will become holders of Accelrys common stock. The business of Accelrys differs from the business of Symyx in important respects and, accordingly, the results of operations of the combined company and the price of Accelrys common stock following the completion of the Merger may be affected by factors different from those currently affecting the independent results of operations of Accelrys and Symyx. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 