ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks, uncertainties and other factors described below, in addition to the other information set forth in this report, because they could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition, cash flows and prospects as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from the Angio-Seal device, which is manufactured, marketed and distributed by St. Jude Medical. Under our license agreements with St. Jude Medical, the Angio-Seal device is manufactured, marketed and sold on a worldwide basis by St. Jude Medical. Two of our significant sources of revenue are the sale of components to St. Jude Medical for use in the Angio-Seal device and royalty income from the sale of the Angio-Seal device by St. Jude Medical to the end-user market. The amount of revenue we receive from the Angio-Seal device depends, in part, on the time, effort and attention that St. Jude Medical devotes to it, and on their success in manufacturing, marketing and selling the device worldwide. For fiscal 2009, royalty income from and sales of components to St. Jude Medical represented approximately 48% of our total revenue. Under the terms of our licenses with St. Jude Medical, we have no control over the pricing and marketing strategy for the Angio-Seal product line. In addition, we depend on St. Jude Medical to successfully maintain levels of manufacturing sufficient to meet anticipated demand, abide by applicable manufacturing regulations and seek reimbursement approvals. Royalty income under our license agreements with St. Jude Medical will end upon the earlier of the termination of the license agreements, which may be terminated for any reason upon 12 months notice, or the expiration of the last claim of any of the licensed patents. St. Jude Medical may not adequately perform its manufacturing, marketing and selling duties. Any such failure by St. Jude Medical may negatively impact Angio-Seal unit sales and, therefore, reduce our royalties. In August 2008, St. Jude Medical acquired certain assets of Datascope Corporation. This acquisition could provide St. Jude Medical with a potential alternative source for the collagen component that could reduce or eliminate the future sales of collagen supplied by our Company to St. Jude Medical. We manufacture two of the key resorbable components of the Angio-Seal device for St. Jude Medical; 100% of their supply requirements for the collagen plug and at least 30% of their requirements for the polymer anchors, under a supply contract that expires in December 2010. We are in the process of negotiating an extension of the supply agreement, though there is no certainty as to when the extension (if any) will be agreed to, or what the terms and conditions of any extension will be. We derive a substantial majority of our revenues from only three customers. A substantial majority of our total revenues are derived from only three customers. For fiscal 2009, in addition to the approximate 48% of our total revenue derived from royalty income from and sales of components to St. Jude Medical, sales of biomaterials products to Arthrex represented approximately 18% of our total revenues, and royalty income from and sales of biomaterials products to Orthovita represented approximately 17% of our total revenues. It is not possible for us to predict the future level of demand for our products that will be generated by these customers or the future demand for the products in the end-user marketplace. Our customer concentration exposes us to the risk of changes in the business condition of any of our major customers and to the risk that the loss of a major customer would materially adversely affect our results of operations. Our relationship with these customers is subject to change. If our biomaterials products are not successful, our operating results and business may be substantially impaired. The success of our biomaterials products, depends on a number of factors, including our ability to continue to manufacture, sell and competitively price these products and the acceptance of these products by the medical 15 Table of Contents profession. In addition, regulatory approvals will be required before biomaterials products in development can be sold. We will require substantial additional funds to develop and market our biomaterials products. We expect to fund the growth of our biomaterials business from cash flows from operations and cash and investments on-hand, but this operating income may not be sufficient to develop new biomaterials products. To date, we have relied on strategic partners or customers to market and sell our biomaterials products. If we cannot attract third parties to work with us to distribute our products to the end-user market, we will not be successful. We depend on our customers to market and, in some cases, obtain regulatory approvals for products that include our biomaterials components. We depend on the efforts of our biomaterials customers in marketing their products that include our biomaterials components. There can be no assurance that our customers’ end-use products that include our biomaterials components will be commercialized successfully by our customers or that our customers will otherwise be able to compete effectively in their markets. While we take steps toward obtaining regulatory approval under certain of our partnerships and for some of our customers, in other cases, we rely on others to do these activities independently. There can be no assurance that our partners or customers will be successful in obtaining such regulatory approvals. The markets for our products are highly competitive and are likely to become more competitive, and our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. The markets for our current and proposed products are fragmented, intensely competitive, subject to rapid change and sensitive to new product introductions and enhancements. We expect that the competitive environment for our products will become more intense as additional companies enter our markets, and as new techniques and technologies are adopted. Our biomaterials and medical devices compete directly and indirectly with a range of products and technologies produced by a wide variety of companies, as well as other processes and procedures which do not require the use of our products or those of our competitors. Many of our existing competitors, as well as a number of potential new competitors, have longer operating histories in these markets, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and greater financial, technical and marketing resources. Our biomaterials products, including products under development, compete with the products of many of the larger companies in the industry. In the vascular sealing device market, our products compete with products sold by Abbott Laboratories, Inc., and Medtronic, Inc., along with other smaller competitors and potential new entrants. The majority of vascular sealing is performed through manual compression, which represents our primary competition. The ECM products we are developing compete with animal-derived products from such companies as Kinetic Concepts, Inc., Cook Group, Inc., Johnson & Johnson and its subsidiaries, Biomet and Stryker, as well as several other companies with human cadaver-based products. Our cartilage repair development program competes with existing surgical procedures, such as the microfracture, the osteoarticular transfer system and allograft procedures. In addition, these products will compete against commercialized products marketed by Genzyme Corporation, and we anticipate additional competition from several other companies that have cartilage products under various stages of development. The endovascular products we provide to Spectranetics compete with a large number of companies, many of whom have dedicated significantly more resources to research and development and sales and marketing than Spectranetics has. These companies include Johnson & Johnson, Inc., Medtronic, Inc., Abbott Laboratories, Inc., Vascular Solutions, Inc., Boston Scientific Corporation, EV3, Inc. and Possis Inc. Our competitors may have broader product lines, which allow them to negotiate exclusive, long-term supply contracts and offer comprehensive pricing for their products. Broader product lines may also provide our competitors with a significant advantage in marketing competing products to group purchasing organizations and other managed care organizations that are increasingly seeking to reduce costs through centralized purchasing. 16 Table of Contents Greater financial resources and product development capabilities may allow our competitors to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements that may render our products obsolete. Competition faced by our customers could also have an adverse effect on our business for a variety of reasons, including that our customers may compete directly with larger, dominant manufacturers with extensive product lines and greater sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. We are also unable to control other factors that may impact the commercialization of our components for end use products, such as marketing and sales efforts and competitive pricing pressures within particular markets. Spectranetics is exclusively responsible for worldwide sales and marketing of our entire endovascular product line. If any or all of these products fail to gain market acceptance or if Spectranetics fails to successfully commercialize them, our business may suffer. Due at least in part to their recent commercial introductions, as well as the fact that they are new to the Spectranetics product portfolio, the endovascular products have limited product and brand recognition, and limited usage to date. We do not know if these products will be successful over the long term, or if they will be adopted by the physician community at rates that in turn generate enough revenue for us to sustain our ongoing investment in this business, although, in any event, we are required by contract to continue such investment. Market acceptance of these products may be hindered if physicians are not presented with compelling data from long-term studies of the safety and efficacy of the products compared to alternative procedures. In addition, demand for the products may not increase as quickly as we expect due to competitive and other factors. Spectranetics announced on September 4, 2008 that it had been jointly served by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) with a search warrant issued by the United States District Court, District of Colorado. According to Spectranetics’ public disclosure, the search warrant requested information and correspondence relating to: (i) the promotion, use, testing, marketing and sales regarding certain of the company’s products for the treatment of in-stent restenosis, payments made to medical personnel and an identified institution for this application, (ii) the promotion, use, testing, experimentation, delivery, marketing and sales of catheter guidewires and balloon catheters manufactured by certain third parties outside of the United States, (iii) two post-market studies completed during the period from 2002 to 2005 and payments to medical personnel in connection with those studies and (iv) compensation packages for certain of the company’s personnel. Although we do not believe this investigation relates to any of our endovascular products sold to Spectranetics, our business may be adversely impacted if Spectranetics is unable to market and sell our products, or if this investigation diverts focus and attention away from selling the endovascular products we sold to them. Spectranetics announced on October 22, 2008 the appointment of Emile J. Geisenheimer, its chairman, to the additional roles of President and Chief Executive Officer, following the resignation of John G. Schulte as President, Chief Executive Officer and director of Spectranetics. Spectranetics has also announced that three additional employees have also left Spectranetics. Our business, including revenues derived from endovascular sales, may be adversely impacted by the change in management if such change diverts focus and attention away from selling the endovascular products we sold to Spectranetics, and which we continue to develop and manufacture for Spectranetics. In fiscal 2009, our net sales to Spectranetics were only $3.9 million, or 7% of our total net sales and 4.8% of our total revenues. Following the second quarter of fiscal 2010, we expect that our manufacturing of the endovascular product line will be limited to the ThromCat product, which will be influenced by the sales efforts of Spectranetics. 17 Table of Contents If our products are not accepted by the medical community, or if our products are replaced by new technologies, our business may suffer. The success of our existing products depends on acceptance of these products by the medical community, which we cannot predict. The success of any products we develop in the future will depend on their adoption by our targeted markets. We cannot predict how quickly, if at all, the medical community will accept our future products, or the extent to which our future products will be used. If we encounter difficulties introducing future products into our targeted markets, our operating results and business may be substantially impaired. In addition, new technologies and techniques may be developed which may render obsolete our current products, along with those under development. The loss of, or interruption of supply from, key vendors could limit our ability to manufacture our products. We purchase many materials and components for our products from various suppliers. Certain of these materials and components are custom made for us, and we have no ready alternative source. We also rely heavily on our closed-herd sourcing infrastructure, for our collagen manufacturing, which cannot be readily replicated. Any loss of, problems with, or interruption of supply from, key vendors may require us to find new vendors. We could experience production or development delays while we attempt to seek new vendors, if we can find them. We may have problems manufacturing and delivering our biomaterials products to our customers. The biomaterials industry is an emerging area, using many materials which are untested or whose properties are still not known. In addition, many of our products are derived from natural materials, such as collagen, which can have varying properties, may be subject to international standards concerning their use in medical devices and require careful sourcing and handling controls. Consequently, from time to time we may experience unanticipated difficulties in manufacturing and delivering our biomaterials products to our customers. These difficulties may include an inability to meet customer supply demands, delays in delivering products, quality control problems with certain biomaterials products, or the need to react to changes in any standard that we adhere to. There can be no assurance that our herd sourcing infrastructure will provide us with an adequate risk management protection mechanism for preventing animal derived diseases from entering the human medical device industry. We have had product recalls that have resulted in significant expense and may result in other future expense or changes to product strategy. We experienced start-up production issues and component supply issues, which resulted in product recalls, as disclosed under “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”. During fiscal 2007, we performed recalls related to our embolic protection platform, which we have since discontinued, and to the ThromCat device, which was relaunched to the market. These product recalls had an adverse affect on our net sales and operating results during fiscal 2007. In addition to lost sales directly resulting from recalls, and the direct expenses associated with such resolution, a recall may have other materially adverse, and potentially longer-term effects, including a negative impact on our reputation in the marketplace with respect to these and other of our products, changes to future product marketing plans, changes to clinical trial plans, and discontinuation of the recalled products. Our use of hazardous materials exposes us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. We use hazardous substances in our research and development and manufacturing operations, and therefore, are potentially subject to material liabilities related to personal injuries or property damages that could be caused by hazardous substance releases or exposures at or from our facility. Decontamination costs, other clean-up costs and related damages or liabilities could substantially impair our business and operating results. We are required to comply with increasingly stringent laws and regulations governing environmental protection and workplace safety, including requirements governing the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous substances. 18 Table of Contents A substantial portion of our revenue is derived directly or indirectly from international markets. St. Jude Medical derives a significant portion of its Angio-Seal revenue from international markets. Many of our other biomaterials products are also sold by our customers in international markets. Our sales and royalties from international sales of the Angio-Seal product line by St. Jude Medical and our revenues from other international sales are subject to several risks, including: • the impact of recessions in economies outside the United States; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, reimbursement policies, tariffs or other trade barriers; • weaker intellectual property rights protection in some countries; • fluctuations in exchange rates; • potentially adverse tax consequences; and • political and economic instability. The occurrence of any of these events could seriously harm St. Jude Medical’s or our future international sales. Our financial position, results of operations or cash flows may be negatively impacted by the recent financial crisis. The recent financial troubles affecting the banking system and financial markets and the on-going concerns and threats to investment banks and other financial institutions have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit and equity markets. There could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on our business, including insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products and/or customer insolvencies; and counterparty failures negatively impacting our debt and treasury operations. Our business could be harmed if we lose the services of our key personnel. Our business depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel, including managerial and technical personnel. The know-how and capabilities of many of our current employees is highly specialized and difficult to replicate or replace in short timeframes. We compete for key personnel with other medical device companies, healthcare institutions, and other organizations. Our ability to maintain and expand our business may be impaired if we are unable to retain our current key personnel or hire or retain other qualified personnel in the future. Our failure to expand our management systems and controls to support anticipated growth or integrate future acquisitions could seriously harm our operating results and business. Our operations are expanding and we expect this trend to continue as we execute our business strategy. Executing our business plan has placed significant demands on management and our administrative, operational, information technology, manufacturing, financial and personnel resources. Accordingly, our future operating results will depend on the ability of our officers and other key employees to continue to implement and improve our operational, customer support and financial control systems, and effectively expand, train and manage our employee base. We may not be able to manage our growth successfully. Any acquisitions that we undertake could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or harm our operating results. We may acquire or make investments in complementary businesses, technologies, services or products if appropriate opportunities arise. The process of integrating any acquired business, technology, service or product 19 Table of Contents into our business and operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Integration of any acquired company also may consume much of our management’s time and attention that could otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business. Moreover, the anticipated benefits of any acquisition may not be realized. Furthermore, we may be unable to identify, negotiate or finance future acquisitions successfully. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets. Our future operating results are difficult to predict and may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Our operating results have varied significantly from quarter to quarter in the past and are likely to vary substantially in the future as a result of a number of factors, some of which are not in our control, including: • ordering patterns by our customers/partners; • the focus and resources that our customers/partners place on developing/marketing the products that we develop and manufacture; • acceptance of the products we develop and manufacture in the end-user marketplace; • our ability to attract partners for our biomaterials products and technologies; • our efforts to gain European CE Mark and FDA approval for biomaterials and endovascular devices; • the loss of significant orders; • changes in our relationship with St. Jude Medical and other major customers; • establishment of strategic alliances or acquisitions; • timely implementation of new and improved products; • delays in obtaining regulatory approvals; • reimbursement rates for our products; • fluctuations in exchange rates; and • changes in the competitive environment. You should not rely upon our results of operations for any particular quarter as an indication of our results for a full year or any other quarter. Our products are subject to clinical trials, which may delay commercialization of our products and may impact our use of time and resources in a material manner. Many of our products are subject to clinical trials, which must be conducted before our products can be marketed. These trials are for the purpose of confirming the safety and effectiveness of the product. We try to plan clinical trials prudently, but there is no guarantee that a proper balance of speed and testing will be made in each case. The length of time for each clinical trial may vary substantially according to the type, complexity and intended use of the product. Delays associated with products for which we are conducting clinical trials may cause us to incur additional expenses. Further, we may be affected by delays in clinical testing of certain products of our strategic partners, over which we may have no control. Unfavorable or inconsistent clinical data from existing or future clinical trials conducted by us, by our strategic partners, by our competitors or by other third parties, or the market’s perception of this clinical data, may adversely impact our ability to obtain product approvals, our position in, and share of, the markets in which we participate and our business, financial condition, results of operations or future prospects. 20 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we are unable to protect our patents and proprietary rights, our reputation and competitiveness in the marketplace may be materially damaged. We regard our patents, biomaterials trade secrets and other intellectual property as important to our success. We rely upon patent law, trade secret protection, confidentiality agreements and license agreements to protect our proprietary rights. Although we have registered certain of our patents with applicable international governmental authorities, effective patent protection may not be available in every country in which our products are made available, and we have not sought protection for our intellectual property in every country where our products may be sold. The steps we take to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to ensure that third parties will not infringe or otherwise violate our patents or similar proprietary rights. Furthermore, patents are of limited duration and may not provide protection for the entire useful life of a product or product line. We may be accused of infringing upon the proprietary rights of others and any related litigation could materially damage our operating results and business. Third parties may claim that we have violated their intellectual property rights. An adverse determination in any intellectual property litigation or interference proceedings brought against us could prohibit us from selling our products, subject us to significant liabilities to third parties or require us to seek licenses from third parties. The costs associated with these license arrangements may be substantial and could include ongoing royalties. Furthermore, the necessary licenses may not be available to us on satisfactory terms, if at all. Adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products. Any of these claims, with or without merit, could subject us to costly litigation and divert the attention of key personnel. The validity of our patents may be challenged by a competitor. Third parties may claim that one of our patents is invalid based on their prior disclosure or that of another party, whether such disclosure is in a patent application or not. This type of challenge may be made in any country where our patents are issued. While we undertake to search the prior art, there is no guarantee that we find all existing incidences of disclosure of devices or technologies related to our inventions. Any of these claims, with or without merit, could subject us to costly litigation and divert the attention of key personnel. We do not own or control the use of the Angio-Seal device trademark. The term “Angio-Seal” is a trademark of St. Jude Medical. All goodwill generated by the marketing and sales of devices bearing the Angio-Seal trademark belongs to St. Jude Medical and not to us. Should the St. Jude Medical license agreements terminate, we would not have the right to call any of our products “Angio-Seal” unless we purchase or license the trademark from St. Jude Medical. Risks Related to Our Industry We may face product liability claims that could result in costly litigation and significant liabilities. The clinical testing, manufacture and sale of medical products involve an inherent risk that human subjects in clinical testing or consumers of the products may suffer serious bodily injury or death due to side effects or other unintended negative reactions to our products. Accordingly, the clinical testing, manufacture and sale of our products entail significant risk of product liability claims. The medical device industry in general has been subject to significant product liability litigation. Any product liability claims, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation, reduced sales, significant liabilities and diversion of our management’s time, attention and resources. We cannot be sure that our product liability insurance coverage is adequate or that it will continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. 21 Table of Contents We face uncertainty relating to third party reimbursement for our products. We could be seriously harmed by changes in reimbursement policies of governmental or private healthcare payers, particularly to the extent any changes affect reimbursement for catheterization procedures in which our Angio-Seal products are used. Physicians, hospitals and other users of our products may fail to obtain sufficient reimbursement from healthcare payers for procedures in which our products are used or adverse changes may occur in governmental and private third-party payers’ policies toward reimbursement for these procedures. The decision by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) not to reimburse for treatment of asymptomatic patients suffering from carotid artery disease was a major factor in our decision not to continue to commercialize our embolic protection product line. Further, there have been, and continue to be, proposals by legislators, regulators and third-party payors to keep healthcare costs down. Certain proposals, if passed, would impose limitations on the prices we will be able to charge for our products, or the amounts of reimbursement available for our products from governmental agencies or third-party payors. These limitations, and other changes to reimbursement policy, could harm our business. President Obama and members of Congress have recently proposed significant reforms to the U.S. healthcare system. Both the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives have conducted hearings about U.S. healthcare reform. The Obama administration’s fiscal year 2010 budget included proposals to limit Medicare payments and increase taxes. In addition, members of Congress have proposed a public (government) health insurance option to compete with private plans, health insurance co-ops and other publicly sponsored healthcare measures. Various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level. We cannot predict what healthcare initiatives, if any, will be implemented at the federal or state level, or the effect any future legislation or regulation will have on us, any of our strategic partners and customers, or any of our competitors. However, an expansion in government’s role in the U.S. healthcare industry may lower reimbursements for our products, and/or reduce medical procedure volumes, which could materially adversely affect our business. Our products and manufacturing activities are subject to extensive governmental regulation that could make it more expensive and time consuming for us to introduce new and improved products or cause us to withdraw products from certain markets. Our products and manufacturing activities are subject to extensive regulation by a number of governmental agencies, including the FDA and comparable international agencies. We are required to: • obtain the approval of the FDA and international agencies before we can market and sell new products; • satisfy these agencies’ requirements for all of our labeling, sales and promotional materials in connection with our existing products; • comply with all applicable design and manufacturing regulations; and • undergo rigorous inspections by these agencies. Compliance with the regulations of these agencies may delay or prevent us from introducing any new or improved products. Furthermore, we may be subject to sanctions, including temporary or permanent suspension of operations, product recalls and marketing restrictions if we fail to comply with the laws and regulations pertaining to our business. We are also required to demonstrate compliance with the FDA’s Quality System Regulations. The FDA enforces its Quality System Regulations through pre-approval and periodic post-approval inspections. These regulations relate to product testing, vendor qualification, manufacturing control, design control and quality assurance, as well as the maintenance of records and documentation. If we are found to be out of compliance with FDA regulations, it could be costly and difficult for us to correct the non-compliances and could seriously harm our business. The FDA and international regulatory agencies may also limit the indications for which our products are promoted. These regulatory agencies may restrict or withdraw approvals if information becomes available to support this action, which could include actions based on sourcing of animal derived tissue. 22 Table of Contents In addition, regulations regarding the development, manufacture and sale of medical devices are subject to future change, including the adoption of more rigorous regulation. We cannot predict what impact, if any, those changes might have on our business, the businesses of our strategic partners, or the businesses of our competitors. Risks Related To Our Securities The trading price of our common stock is likely to fluctuate substantially in the future. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, some of which are not in our control, including: • changes in our own forecasts or earnings estimates by analysts; • our customers and licensees’ ability to meet or exceed the forecasts or expectations of analysts or investors; • our ability to meet or exceed our own forecasts or expectations of analysts or investors; • quarter-to-quarter variations in our operating results; • announcements regarding clinical activities or new products by us or our competitors; • general conditions in the medical device industry; • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market, which have particularly affected the market prices of many medical device companies; and • general economic conditions. In addition, the market for our stock has experienced, and may continue to experience, price and volume fluctuations unrelated or disproportionate to our operating performance. As a result, our stockholders may not be able to sell shares of our common stock at or above the price at which they purchase them. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. If any securities litigation is initiated against us, with or without merit, we could incur substantial costs, and our management’s attention and resources could be diverted from our business. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation, third amended and restated bylaws, stockholders rights plan and Delaware law may discourage an attempt to acquire our Company. Provisions of our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation, third amended and restated bylaws, stockholders rights plan and Delaware law may render more difficult or discourage any attempt to acquire our company, even if such acquisition may be favorable to the interests of our stockholders, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In particular, our stockholders rights plan, adopted in June 2009, may cause substantial dilution to any person or group that attempts to acquire us without the approval of our Board of Directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 