Item 1A Risk Factors Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2 Properties Item 3 Legal Proceedings Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6 Selected Consolidated Financial Data Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A Controls and Procedures Item 9B Other Information PART III Item 10 Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Item 11 Executive Compensation Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services PART IV Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules This Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). These statements appear in a number of places in this Form 10-K and include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of the Company or its officers with respect to, among other things, the ability of the Company to make capital expenditures, the ability to incur additional debt, as necessary, to service and repay such debt, if any, as well as other factors that may effect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. Forward-looking statements may include, but are not limited to, projections of revenues, income or losses, capital expenditures, plans for future operations, financing needs or plans, compliance with covenants in loan agreements, plans for liquidation or sale of assets or businesses, plans relating to products or services of the Company, assessments of materiality, predictions of future events, and the ability to obtain additional financing, including the Company’s ability to meet obligations as they become due, and other pending and possible litigation, as well as assumptions relating to the foregoing. All statements in this Form 10-K regarding industry prospects and the Company’s financial position are forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to have been correct. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly release the result of any revisions to these forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. 2 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Business Activities Speedus Corp. is a holding company that owns significant equity interests in diverse businesses. We seek business opportunities across all industries for potential transactions and relationships in which we can apply our current resources and management strengths. The companies that we target, either public or privately held, will be seeking growth or restructuring capital to pursue near term business objectives in demonstrated markets. We will continue to pursue opportunities involving our expertise in the medical device and wireless markets as well as those areas involving our broadband assets as attractive opportunities present themselves. We have co-invested with Siemens Corporate Research, Inc., a subsidiary of Siemens Corporation, in Zargis Medical Corp. to develop advanced diagnostic decision support products and services for primary care physicians, pediatricians, cardiologists and other healthcare professionals. Zargis Acoustic Cardioscan (ZAC), Zargis’ core product, is the first and only FDA-authorized computer-assisted medical device designed to support physicians in analyzing heart sounds for the identification of suspected murmurs—which are a potential sign of heart disease. We own 90% of F&B Güdtfood Holding Corp., the creator and operator of the original Eurocentric “chic and quick” café, which is operating two stores in Manhattan. We own a portfolio of patents that allow for high-speed wireless communications. We also own fixed wireless spectrum in the New York City metropolitan area that we may commercialize in the future to support high-speed, or broadband, Internet access service. For additional information on each of our business segments, see the discussions below and “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 9, Business Segment Information.” Zargis Medical Corp. In January 2001, we co-invested with Siemens Corporate Research, Inc., a subsidiary of Siemens Corporation, in Zargis Medical Corp. to develop non-invasive, diagnostic support solutions that automatically analyze acoustical data from a patient to determine physiologically significant features useful in medical diagnosis. The development of Zargis’ patented technology is a pioneering effort in medicine which uses advanced signal processing algorithms deployed on standard computer platforms. The first Zargis device, the Zargis Acoustic Cardioscan, received FDA authorization in May 2004 and in September 2005. ZAC is currently being tested by a select group of physicians to be used as part of general medical examinations and physicals to detect suspected murmurs which could be a sign of valvular and congenital heart disease. General medical examinations, according to the National Center for Health Statistics, totaled 64 million in 2000 for the US alone. Zargis is currently researching, and conducting trials on, additional noninvasive diagnostic support tools that process acoustical data from the body in order to provide an accurate and intelligible assessment of a patient’s health. These assessments may be used by physicians and other healthcare providers to assist in the early identification or monitoring of heart, lung, vascular and other conditions and to provide better patient treatment. We have signed an exclusive contract with Zargis to provide transaction processing to support Zargis’ medical products that will result in direct revenues to us although these revenues will be eliminated on our consolidated financial statements. Major next steps remaining for Zargis include continuing marketing trials and clinical trials for new applications of the Zargis technology and the formation of strategic partnerships designed to support product commercialization. In February 2003, we acquired a controlling interest in Zargis Medical for an additional investment of $1,250,000. In July 2003, we increased our ownership in Zargis Medical to 68.9% by investing an additional $2,000,000. As of December 31, 2003 and February 1, 2004, our ownership increased to 70.5% and 71.2%, respectively, as a result of certain milestones not having been met. In September 2004, we increased our ownership in Zargis Medical to 72.7% by investing an additional $500,000. At December 31, 2005, as a result of continued advances aggregating $1,480,000 during 2005, our ownership interest increased to approximately 78%. F&B Güdtfood. We own 90% of F&B Güdtfood, the creator and operator of the original Eurocentric “chic and quick” café, which is operating two stores in Manhattan. The acquisition price was $3,500,000 in May 2002. In February 2003, we reduced our cash investment in F&B Güdtfood and received $1,775,000 while maintaining our original 51% interest. In December 2003, as a result of renegotiation, our interest increased to 80% without an additional investment. As a result of certain milestones not having been met, in 2005 our interest increased to 90%. We expect that F&B Güdtfood will begin selling F&B Güdtfood franchises through its wholly owned subsidiary, F&B Güdtfood Franchise Corp. We have also entered into a management services contract with F&B Güdtfood that will result in direct revenues to us although these revenues will be eliminated on our consolidated financial statements. Broadband Patents. Through our wholly owned subsidiaries, Broadband Patents, LLC and CellularVision Technology & Telecommunications, L.P., we have accumulated a portfolio of patents that allow for high-speed wireless communication systems with greater information content, reliability, clarity, or more efficient use of licensed spectrum as compared to prior systems. We have six domestic patents with expiration dates ranging from 2007 through 2017, with approximately 37 international counterparts in 21 countries. We also have 21 patents 3 pending in an additional 6 countries. Certain wireless communications systems may employ a number of different combinations of our patented technology to maximize operational and spectrum efficiency. While we believe that it would be difficult for such a wireless communications system to be constructed without using one or more of our patented technologies, it is a lengthy and expensive process to pursue licensing/patent infringement cases. We are evaluating a strategy for the utilization of these patents in the future, which may include pursuit of licensing or development of other strategic opportunities with users of the underlying technology. We have licensed technology in the past, both domestically and internationally, but are not currently receiving any license fees. Wibiki. During 2005, our technology resources and experience in wireless broadband enabled us to conceive a new software-based wireless network that leverages existing Wi-Fi infrastructures to reduce cost, complexity and risk for users when accessing the Internet wirelessly. We named that network Wibiki. Wibiki offers free beta software designed to improve access to free Wi-Fi, including streamlining registration and security configuration of Wi-Fi clients and routers. Wibiki software for laptops and routers can be downloaded from www.wibiki.com. Wibiki’s business model will employ a user opt-in advertising service we call AdChooser to generate revenues that keep Wibiki services free to users. Local Multipoint Distribution Service (LMDS) license. We have an FCC commercial operating license, awarded to us in recognition of our efforts in developing and deploying LMDS technology and for spearheading its regulatory approval at the FCC, which covers 150 MHz of spectrum in the New York City area. The license has been renewed as a standard LMDS license through February 1, 2006. Renewal of the license has been applied for and is currently pending. Under FCC authorization, the license includes an additional 150 MHz of spectrum until the first Ka band satellite is launched, an event which is not currently determinable. The license provides that the spectrum may be used for a wide variety of fixed wireless purposes, including wireless local loop telephony, high-speed Internet access and two-way teleconferencing. We will not commence a full marketing effort using our LMDS technology until new LMDS equipment becomes commercially available with cost and performance that allow implementation of an economically viable business model. We cannot determine when this will occur and this equipment may never be available to us on this basis. Other. We have invested a portion of our assets in a portfolio of marketable securities consisting of publicly traded equity securities. We have in the past and may in the future sell publicly traded equity securities we do not own in anticipation of declines in the fair market values of these securities. We have generated operating losses and negative operating cash flows since our inception and expect to continue to do so in the near future. Competition Many of our present and potential competitors have longer operating histories and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do and therefore may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards and customer requirements. Intellectual Property To protect our proprietary rights, we rely on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties and protective contractual provisions. All of our employees have executed confidentiality and nonuse agreements that transfer any rights they may have in copyrightable works or patentable technologies to us. We have applied for registration of our service marks and trademarks in the United States and in other countries. We may not be successful in obtaining the service marks and trademarks for which we have applied. To the extent we consider it necessary, we may file patents to protect our technology. Patents with respect to our technology may not be granted, and, if granted, patents may be challenged or invalidated. In addition, issued patents may not provide us with any competitive advantages and may be challenged by third parties. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may copy aspects of our products or services or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. In addition, others could possibly independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property. If we do not effectively protect our intellectual property, our business could suffer. Companies have frequently resorted to litigation regarding intellectual property rights. We may have to litigate to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of other parties’ proprietary rights. Government Regulation In general, we are not currently subject to direct federal, state or local government regulation, other than regulations that apply to businesses generally. However, the grant, renewal and administration of spectrum licenses is regulated by the Federal Communications Commission. Our local multipoint distribution service license expired in February 2006 and our renewal application is pending with the FCC. While the FCC has historically renewed 4 licenses as a matter of course, licenses in the local multipoint distribution service band are just now coming up for renewal. A failure by the FCC to renew our license could have an adverse effect on the Company. In addition, medical devices such as ours are subject to strict regulation by state and federal authorities, including the Food and Drug Administration and comparable authorities in certain states. 5 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks related to our business generally Although we have been a public company since February 1996, we have reoriented our business several times and our current business has not generated any significant revenues to date. At the time of our initial public offering, our business was primarily a subscription television service. In November 1998, we terminated the subscription television business and began a limited pilot program for the delivery of high-speed Internet access. We encountered technical difficulties in this pilot program and reoriented our business on wireless data and other services. We have not yet generated any significant revenue from these businesses. We have recorded operating losses in each reporting period since our inception and may never be profitable. We have recorded operating losses and negative operating cash flows in all reporting periods since inception and, at December 31, 2005, had an accumulated deficit of approximately $63.9 million. We believe that we have sufficient liquidity to finance our current level of operations through the 2006 fiscal year. However, we do not expect to have earnings from operations, exclusive of non-cash charges, until such time as we substantially increase our customer base and/or form a strategic alliance for use of our capabilities in the future. Our existing operations and infrastructure may not be adequate to manage the growth necessary for successful implementation of our business plan. Successful implementation of our business plan will require the management of growth. Our existing operations and infrastructure may not be adequate to manage such growth, and any steps taken to improve such systems and controls may not be sufficient. Our future success will depend in part upon attracting and retaining the services of current management and technical personnel. We also may not be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining new personnel in the future as future growth takes place. We do not maintain “key person” life insurance policies on any of our key personnel. Shant S. Hovnanian and Vahak S. Hovnanian, who in the aggregate own approximately 41% of our Common Stock, may have the power acting together to control the direction and future operations of our company. Shant S. Hovnanian and Vahak S. Hovnanian in the aggregate own approximately 41% of our outstanding Common Stock at February 15, 2006. As a result, acting together they may have the power to elect all of the members of our Board of Directors, amend our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and control the direction and future operations of our Company, in each case without the approval of any of our other stockholders. Our stock price has historically been volatile, which may make it more difficult for you to resell shares when you want at prices you find attractive. The trading price of our Common Stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. During 2005, 2004 and 2003, the high and low sale prices of our Common Stock on the Nasdaq Stock Market ranged from $2.92 to $1.06, $4.28 to $1.39 and $1.65 to $0.71, respectively. The closing sale price of our Common Stock was $1.31 on March 21, 2006. Our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products and media properties by us or our competitors, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable, and news reports relating to trends in our markets. On several occasions through 2003, we were not in compliance with Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5), which requires listed companies to maintain a closing bid price equal to or greater than $1.00. Most recently, in June 2003, we received notice from Nasdaq that we had regained compliance with Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5) and the matter was closed. If our Common Stock were delisted from Nasdaq, trading in our Common Stock would have to be conducted on the OTC Bulletin Board or in the non-Nasdaq over-the-counter market, also referred to as the “pink sheets”. If that were to occur, liquidity for our Common Stock could be significantly decreased which could reduce the trading price and increase the transaction costs of trading shares of our Common Stock. 6 Sales of shares of Common Stock by Shant S. Hovnanian and Vahak S. Hovnanian could adversely affect the market price of the Common Stock. Future sales of shares of Common Stock, or the availability of shares of Common Stock for future sale, may adversely impact the market price of the Common Stock prevailing from time to time. Sales of substantial amounts of our Common Stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of the Common Stock. Shares of Common Stock held by Shant S. Hovnanian and Vahak S. Hovnanian have been held by each of them for the requisite holding periods under Rule 144 under the Securities Act and may be sold in accordance with volume restrictions. Risks related to certain short-term investments Securities that we invest in are subject to market price risks. As part of our overall investment strategy, we invest in publicly traded equity securities. We purchase these securities in anticipation of increases in the fair market values of the securities. We have in the past and may in the future sell publicly traded equity securities that we do not own in anticipation of declines in the fair market values of the securities. When we sell securities that we do not own, we must borrow the securities we sold in order to deliver them and settle the trades. Thereafter, we must buy the securities and deliver them to the lender of the securities. Our potential for loss on these transactions is unlimited since the value of the underlying security can keep increasing which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. The Company is seeking to eliminate the risk that it could be deemed to be an investment company. The Company has substantial liquidity. Although a portion of the Company’s cash is invested in securities, the Company is pursuing an acquisition strategy that will, if successfully executed, eliminate any risk of it being deemed to be an investment company. Generally, a company must register under the Investment Company Act of 1940 and comply with significant restrictions on operations and transactions with affiliates if its investment securities exceed 40% of the company’s total assets, or if it holds itself out as being primarily engaged in the business of investing, owning or holding securities. If it is deemed to be an investment company, it might need to dispose of or acquire investments in order to avoid investment company status. Risks related to investments in other companies Ability to successfully identify investment opportunities We will face substantial competition in identifying and closing appropriate investment opportunities from, among others, venture capital firms, large corporate investors and other publicly traded companies. These competitors may limit our opportunity to acquire interests in new partner companies. In addition, we may be unable to acquire interests in appropriate companies for other reasons, including the inability to agree on terms, such as price and ownership percentages, incompatibility between us and management and access to sufficient funding. Our growth will be materially adversely affected if we cannot successfully identify investments in a sufficient number of companies. The value of our business may fluctuate because of companies that we may invest in. The value of our business may fluctuate because of companies that we may invest in. These companies may be development stage or privately held companies for which no public market exists for their stock. The valuations of our investments in privately held companies that we may invest in are indeterminate prior to their public offerings, and there can be no assurance that these offerings will occur since they will be dependent upon the development of these businesses, market conditions and other conditions over which we may have no control. Capital and management resources There will be a number of special issues that we will have to address for investment in start-up companies, including: the diversion of management attention in connection with both negotiating and overseeing these transactions; the potential issuance of additional shares of our Common Stock in connection with these transactions, which could dilute the rights of existing shareholders, and the need to incur additional debt in connection with these transactions. In addition, many, if not all, of these start-up companies will face the same, or similar, risks as we face in our own business. 7 Managing growth Successful implementation of our business plan will require the management of growth. We cannot assure you that our existing operations and infrastructure will be adequate to manage such growth, or that any steps taken to improve such systems and controls will be sufficient. Our future success will depend in part upon attracting and retaining the services of current management and technical personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining new personnel in the future as future growth takes place. Risks related to medical device companies Risks related to government regulation and future regulatory requirements Medical devices such as ours are subject to strict regulation by state and federal authorities, including the Food and Drug Administration and comparable authorities in certain states. Manufacturers of medical devices are required to comply with very specific rules and regulations concerning the testing, manufacturing, packaging, labeling and marketing of medical devices. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in, among other things, civil and criminal fines, product recalls, detentions, seizures, injunctions and criminal prosecutions. In addition, these regulations are subject to future change. We cannot predict what material impact, if any, these changes might have on our business. Future changes in regulations or enforcement policies could impose more stringent requirements on us, compliance with which could adversely affect our business. Potential product recalls In the event that any of our products prove to be defective, we could voluntarily recall, or the FDA could require us to redesign or implement a recall of, any defective product. There is a possibility that we may recall products in the future and that future recalls could result in significant costs to us and in significant negative publicity which could harm our ability to market our products in the future. We could be exposed to significant liability claims. We could be exposed to significant liability claims if we are unable to obtain insurance at acceptable costs and adequate levels or otherwise protect ourselves against potential product liability claims. The testing, manufacture, marketing and sale of medical devices involve the inherent risk of liability claims. A successful product liability claim could affect or prevent commercialization of our medical devices, or cause a significant financial burden on us, or both, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and ability to market our medical devices. Health care providers may not be able to obtain adequate levels of third-party reimbursement. The success of our product will depend to a significant extent on the ability of health care providers to obtain adequate levels of third-party reimbursement. The amount of reimbursement available may vary. The cost of medical care is funded, in substantial part, by government insurance programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and private and corporate health insurance plans. Third-party payers may deny reimbursement at adequate levels if they determine that a prescribed device or diagnostic procedure is not used in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods as determined by the payer, or is experimental, unnecessary or inappropriate. The inadequacy of the reimbursement would have a material adverse effect on our business. The medical device industry is characterized by rapid technological changes and advances. Although the Company believes that its products are technologically current, the development of new technologies or refinements of existing ones by the Company’s competitors could at any time make the Company’s existing products technologically or economically obsolete. Although the Company is not aware of any pending technological developments that would be likely to materially and adversely affect its business or financial position, there can be no assurance that such developments will not occur at any time. We may rely on third parties to support the manufacture or commercialization of our products. We may rely on third parties, and possibly single third parties, to manufacture or commercialize our products. Third parties may not perform their obligations as expected. The amount and timing of resources that third parties devote to manufacturing or commercializing our product may not be within our control. The third party on which we rely to commercialize our products may not be able to recruit and retain skilled sales representatives. 8 Furthermore, our interests may differ from those of the third party that manufacture or commercializes our products. Disagreements that may arise with the third party could limit the manufacture or commercialization of our products, or result in litigation or arbitration, which would be time-consuming, distracting and expensive. If the third party that supports the manufacture or commercialization of our products breaches or terminates its agreement with us, or fails to conduct its activities in a timely manner, such breach, termination or failure could result in the disruption of our business and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Risks related to our high-speed Internet access service We may be unable to solve ongoing technical difficulties in our deployment and equipment for our high-speed Internet access service is not, and may never be, available at a cost and with performance levels that allow for commercial implementation on an economically attractive basis. Our super high-speed Internet service utilizes a new technology that has a limited operating history and that remains subject to further development and refinement. The equipment necessary to provide our high-speed Internet access service is not currently manufactured on a scale and at a cost suitable for the commercialization of our service. Such equipment may never become available at a cost and with performance levels that allow for commercial implementation on an economically attractive basis. Many financially stronger competitors with broader market coverage are offering high-speed Internet access. The market for Internet access and related services is highly competitive. We expect local, regional and national Internet service providers to be competitors for our super high-speed Internet access service. Telephone companies with digital subscriber line technology, which increases the effective capacity of existing copper telephone cables, are among other competitors. Also, cable operators with high-speed cable modems are among the other communications companies also providing high-speed Internet access. Many of the competing Internet service providers have, or can be expected to have, greater financial, marketing and other resources than us. We may not be able to compete successfully with these entities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 