Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in the Company’s common stock involves a number of very significant risks. Because of these risks, only persons able to bear the risk and withstand the loss of their entire investment should invest in the Company’s common stock. Prospective investors should consider the following risk factors before making an investment decision. · The current U.S. and global economic conditions have affected and will continue to affect the Company’s results of operations and financial position. The current economic conditions have resulted in decreased revenues, retail store count, operating income and cash flow. This downturn might also lead to a reduction of certain overhead expenses as well as stronger restrictions on customer credit. These uncertainties about future economic conditions make it difficult for the Company to forecast future operating results and cash flows from operations. · The Company’s common stock is trading on the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board (“OTCBB”). The OTCBB is generally considered a less efficient market that is does not have national exposure to prospective shareholders. As such, shareholders are likely to find it more difficult to trade the Company’s common stock on the OTCBB. · The application of the "penny stock rules" could reduce the liquidity and, therefore, the market price of the Company’s common stock. On March 30, 2009, the last reported sales price of the Company’s common stock was $0.19. Because the trading price of the Company’s common stock is less than $5.00 per share and no longer trades on NASDAQ, the Company’s common stock comes within the definition of a "penny stock." The “penny stock rules” impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell the Company’s securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors, generally those with assets in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000, or $300,000 together with their spouse. Before a broker-dealer can sell a penny stock, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) rules require the firm to first approve the customer for the transaction in question and receive from the customer a written agreement to such transaction. The firm must furnish the customer a document describing the risks of investing in penny stocks. The broker-dealer must also advise the customer of the current market quotation, if any, for the penny stock and the compensation the firm and its broker will receive for the trade. Finally, the firm must send monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. These additional burdens imposed on broker-dealers may restrict the ability of broker-dealers to sell the Company’s securities and may affect your ability to resell the Company’s common stock. · Dr. Alan Cohen, the Company’s Chairman of its Board of Directors, and, one of the Company’s significant shareholders, owns, operates, manages and/or is otherwise involved with other companies in the retail optical industry, which are in competition with the Company’s Sterling Stores and/or Combine Members, and may result in potential conflicts. Dr. Cohen is also a principal shareholder and executive officer and director of Real Optical, LLC. Real Optical operates and franchises retail optical stores similar to Sterling Stores and Combine Members in the States of Connecticut, Florida, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, New Jersey and New York and may, in the future, operate in other states as well. In the future, Real Optical may open or franchise additional stores that are located in the same areas as Sterling Stores and/or Combine Member locations. These competing businesses could reduce the revenues generated at the Company’s competing Sterling Stores and/or from Combine Members. Dr. Cohen is also one of the principal members and executive officers of General Vision Services, LLC, or GVS, which operates retail optical stores located in the New York metropolitan area. GVS stores are similar to, and compete with, the Sterling Stores and/or Combine Members being operated in the same areas. Furthermore, GVS solicits and administers third party benefit programs, similar to those being administered by the Company, through GVS's network of company-owned and independent retail optical stores. It is possible that additional GVS stores, or other retail optical stores, which provide services under third party benefit plans administered by GVS, may, in the future, be located near one or more of the Company’s Sterling Stores and/or Combine Member locations, and may compete directly with such locations. Additionally, the Company and GVS jointly participate in certain third party benefit plans and certain Sterling Stores and GVS stores participate as providers under third party benefit plans obtained by the Company or GVS and, in all likelihood, will continue to do so in the future. A possible consequence of Dr. Cohen’s’ interests in Cohen Fashion Optical, Real Optical, GVS and their respective affiliates is that conflicts of interest may arise, as described above, and when business opportunities in the Company’s line of business are presented to them, whether in his capacity as member of the Company’s Board or as a shareholder, officer and director in these other entities. While there can be no assurance as to the manner in which corporate opportunities presented to Dr. Cohen will be allocated, by him, among the various competing business entities in which he is involved, as a supplement to the common law fiduciary duties to which all directors owe the Company and its shareholders, the Company has adopted a Corporate Code of Ethics (which can be accessed on the Company’s website www.emergingvision.com) to which Dr. Cohen must adhere, which, in part, establishes guidelines as to how potential conflicts of interest are to be handled. Dr. Robert Cohen, who served on the Company’s Board of Directors until he resigned on March 5, 2008, and who is still a shareholder of the Company, also owns, operates, manages and/or is otherwise involved with the same companies that Dr. Alan Cohen is involved in. · The Company significantly depends on the ability and experience of certain members of its management, and their departure may prevent or delay the successful execution of the Company’s business plan. The Company relies on the skills of certain members of its senior management team to guide its operations including, but not limited to, Mr. Christopher G. Payan, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, the loss of whom could have an adverse effect on the Company’s operations. The Company currently has an employment agreement with Mr. Payan through November 2009; however, only one other member of senior management has an employment agreement. Accordingly, the loss of their services could prevent or delay the successful execution of its business plan and attainment of profitability. · The Company does not control the management of most of the Sterling Stores that operate under its name, nor does it control any of the Combine or TOG Members, and these stores may be managed by unsuccessful franchisees, Combine Members and/or TOG Members, which would reduce the Company’s revenues from these stores. The Company relies, in substantial part, on franchisees, Combine Members and TOG Members for revenues. Since the Company does not control the management of these locations, it is possible that a franchisee/owner may not have the business acumen or financial resources to successfully operate his or her franchised Sterling Store, Combine Member location and/or TOG Member location. The Company, together with a substantial number of franchisees, has recently experienced a significant decrease in sales, mainly due to current economic conditions, generated from the operation of Sterling Stores, and cannot predict what will happen with the economy in the future. If a substantial number of franchisees, Combine Members and/or TOG Members experience a future decline in their sales and/or are ultimately not successful; revenues from franchisees, Combine Members and/or TOG Members would decrease. Some of the factors that could lead to future decline in sales, include, among others: decreased spending by consumers, continuing current economic climate, increased competition by large discount eyewear chains, which increases the need for franchisees, Combine Members and/or TOG Members to provide more aggressive promotional sales, thus decreasing their profit margins; and the limitations of vision care benefits available under medical and third party benefit plans. · Better financed competitors that provide greater levels of advertising obtain favorable discounts from suppliers and offer customers aggressive discount pricing. The Company competes with many types of eyewear providers, which may prevent it from increasing or maintaining market share. The retail optical business is highly competitive and includes chains of retail optical stores, superstores, individual retail outlets and a large number of individual opticians, optometrists and ophthalmologists that provide professional services and dispense prescription eyewear. These competitors may take advantage of prompt payment discount plans, aggressive discounting and price-cutting for customers, and increased advertising. As retailers of prescription eyewear, the Company and its franchisees generally service local markets and, therefore, competition varies substantially from one location or geographic area to another. If the Company is not successful in dealing with competition, the Company will not be able to increase or maintain its customer base or market share. · The Company often offers incentives to its customers, which lower profit margins. At times when major competitors offer significantly lower prices for their products, it then becomes in the Company’s best interest to do the same. Certain of the major competitors offer promotional incentives to their customers including free eye exams, "50% Off" on designer frames and "Buy One, Get One Free" eye care promotions. In response to these promotions, the Company has offered the same or similar incentives to its customers. This practice has resulted in lower profit margins and these competitive promotional incentives may further reduce revenues, gross margins and cash flows. Although the Company believes that Sterling Stores provide quality service and products at competitive prices, several of the large retail optical chains have greater financial resources. Therefore, the Company may not be able to continue to deliver cost efficient products in the event of aggressive pricing by competitors, which would reduce the Company’s profit margins, net income and cash flow. · Laser surgery could eliminate the need for certain eyeglasses and contact lenses. As refractive laser surgery gains market acceptance, the Company may lose revenue from traditional eyewear customers. As traditional eyewear users undergo laser vision correction procedures or other vision correction techniques, the demand for certain contact lenses and eyeglasses will decrease. Due to the fact that the marketing and sale of eyeglasses and contact lenses is a significant part of the Company’s business, a decrease in customer demand for these products could have a material adverse effect on sales of prescription eyewear, as well as those of the Company’s franchisees. · The Company is subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations that affect the health care industry, which may affect its ability to generate revenues or subject the Company to additional expenses. The regulatory requirements that the Company and its franchisees must satisfy to conduct its businesses, varies from state to state. For example, some states have enacted laws governing the ability of ophthalmologists and optometrists to enter into contracts with business corporations or lay persons, and some states prohibit companies from computing their royalty fees based upon a percentage of the gross revenues generated by optometrists from exam fees. Various federal and state regulations also limit the financial and non-financial terms of agreements with health care providers and, therefore, potential revenues may differ depending upon the nature of the Company’s various health care provider affiliations. · The Company and its franchisees are also subject to the requirements of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”), which governs participation in managed care programs. The Company also must comply with the privacy regulations under HIPAA. In addition, all states have passed laws that govern or affect arrangements with the optometrists who practice in vision centers. Additionally, the Company and its franchisees are also subject to regulations regarding franchise business and in-store laboratory operations, as well as the operation, in California, of VCC, which is regulated by the State of California Department of Managed Health Care. As a franchisor, the Company is subject to various registrations and disclosure requirements imposed by the Federal Trade Commission and by many of the states in which the Company conducts franchising operations. The Federal Occupational Safety and Health Act regulates the Company’s in-store laboratory operations. Although the Company believes that it is in material compliance with all applicable laws and/or regulations, the Company may not be able to sustain compliance if these laws and/or regulations change in the future and, in that event, the Company may have to incur significant expenses to maintain compliance. · If the Company’s subsidiary, VCC, is no longer permitted to employ optometrists, then the revenue generated from its California Sterling Stores would, in all likelihood, decrease materially, thereby decreasing net income and cash flow. A class action was commenced against the Company and VCC alleging that the operation of VCC, which employs licensed optometrists, violates certain provisions of the California Business and Professions Code. Although the Company and VCC prevailed in this case, in such event that VCC would lose its right to employ licensed optometrists in the future, then sales, net income and cash flow would, in all likelihood, decrease. · The Company may be exposed to significant risk from liability claims if it is unable to obtain insurance, at acceptable costs, to protect the Company against potential liability claims. The provision of professional eye care services entails an inherent risk of professional malpractice and other similar claims. The Company does not influence or control the practice of optometry by the optometrists that it employs or affiliates with, nor does it have responsibility for their compliance with certain regulatory and other requirements directly applicable to these individual professionals. As a result of the relationship between the Company and its employed or affiliated optometrists, the Company may become subject to professional malpractice actions or claims under various theories relating to the professional services provided by these individuals. The Company may not be able to continue to obtain adequate liability insurance at reasonable rates, in which event; its insurance may not be adequate to cover claims asserted against the Company, thus, potentially decreasing the Company’s future cash position and potentially jeopardizing the Company’s ability to continue operations. · The Company’s operations and success are highly dependent upon health care providers, and the Company may be unable to enter into favorable arrangements with these providers. Certain states prohibit the Company from employing optometrists to render professional services. Accordingly, the success of the Company’s operations as full-service eye care providers depends upon its ability to enter into agreements with these health care providers to render professional services at Sterling Stores, Combine Member and/or TOG Member locations. Due to the increased competition, among large discounters of retail eyewear, to enter into agreements with health care providers and the finite number of available health care providers, the costs of compensating these health care providers has increased materially. The Company, its franchisees, Combine Members and/or TOG Members may not be able to enter into agreements with these health care providers on satisfactory terms, or these agreements may not be profitable, which would reduce the revenues the Company, its franchisees, Combine Members and/or TOG Members could generate from their operations. · Certain events could result in a dilution of your ownership of the Company’s common stock. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had 23,218,311 shares that were reserved for issuance under outstanding warrants, options and senior convertible preferred stock. The exercise and conversion prices, as the case may be, of common stock equivalents range from $0.05 to $8.06 per share. If converted or exercised, these securities will result in a dilution of your percentage ownership of the Company’s common stock. In addition, if the Company acquires new companies through the issuance of common or preferred stock, your percentage of ownership will be further diluted. · The Company’s potential limitation on the use of its net operating loss carry-forwards in accordance with Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, due to certain changes in ownership that have occurred or could occur in the future. Furthermore, in order to limit the potential that future transactions could have a similar effect on the Company’s tax attributes, the Company amended its by-laws to provide the Board of Directors with the ability to void certain transactions in Company securities that may impair or limit the future utilization of its tax attributes, including its net operating loss carry-forwards. However, there can be no assurance that the Company has been, or will in the future be, successful in preventing an event which could materially impair or limit the Company’s utilization of its net operating loss carry-forwards and other tax attributes. · Combine Members operate retail optical stores similar to Sterling Stores in the states of California, Delaware, Florida, Illinois, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, New Jersey, New York, North Dakota, Pennsylvania, Virginia, West Virginia, Wisconsin, and in the District of Columbia and the Virgin Islands. As of the date hereof, many Combine Member locations are in the same shopping center or mall as, or in close proximity to, certain Sterling Stores; and in the future, the Company may open Sterling Stores that are located in the same areas as Combine Members. These competing businesses could reduce the revenues generated at, both, the Company’s Sterling Stores and Combine Member locations, or could cause Combine Members to leave Combine because they view Combine as the competition. · Combine and TOG operations and success are highly dependent upon the purchases of eye care products by independent optical retailers (Combine/TOG Members). If Combine/TOG Member’s decide to purchase their eye care products through a competing optical purchasing group business or purchase direct from a vendor, then revenues generated from Combine and/or TOG would decrease. A decrease in the number of Combine/TOG Members could reduce Combine and/or TOG profit margins, net income and cash flow. · Combine and TOG utilize certain key vendors to provide its members with a broad spectrum of product purchasing options. If one of these key vendors ceases to do business with Combine and/or TOG, or ceases to exist, Combine and/or TOG could see a decrease in the amount of product purchased by its members, thus decreasing its revenues and net income. · The Company relies heavily on computer systems in managing financial results. The Company is subject to damage and interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events and usage by employees. This includes any damage to the systems that allow for electronic payments from the Company’s franchisees and credit card payments from its Sterling Store customers. Any repairs necessary to replace and/or fix these systems could result in a significant expense to the Company. Additionally, certain of the Company’s financial reporting processes are not part of an integrated financial reporting system, which requires additional hours and administrative costs to operate manage and control these systems. The Company is working to transition most of the processes to an integrated financial reporting system. The conversion of these systems and processes to become SOX compliant could result in a significant expense to the Company and may pose greater risks associated with maintaining internal controls as the systems are integrated. · The Company’s leasing space for a majority of its Sterling Stores could expose it to possible liabilities and losses. The Company’s leases are generally for 10 years. Many of the leases provide for annual increases over the term of the lease in addition to the costs associated with insurance, taxes, repairs, maintenance and utilities. If an existing Sterling Store becomes non-profitable and the Company decides to close the location, the Company may still be required to pay the base rent, taxes and other rental charges for the balance of the lease. · The Company may be unable to service its debt obligations. In connection with the purchases of Combine and TOG, along with other debt obligations, the Company has approximately $6,077,000 of outstanding debt as of December 31, 2008. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future, it may be unable to make principal or interest payments on such borrowings when they become due and may need to refinance all or a portion of the existing debt, or obtain additional financing. Additionally, the amount outstanding on the Company’s Revolving Line of Credit Note and Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company (“M&T”) was $4,806,854 as of March 31, 2009. All remaining principal on the Credit Agreement is due in April 2010. The Company currently cannot guarantee that it will be able to make such principal payments on or before April 2010 and cannot guarantee that M&T will refinance on favorable terms, if at all. · The Company is Plaintiff in a pending civil action (the “Action”) against For Eyes Optical Company (“For Eyes” or “Defendant”) in which the Company claims, among other things, , that (i) there is no likelihood of confusion between the Company’s and Defendant’s mark, and that the Company has not infringed, and is not infringing, Defendant’s mark; (ii) the Company is not bound by that certain settlement agreement, executed in 1981 by a prior owner of the Site For Sore Eyes trademark; and (iii) Defendant’s mark is generic and must be cancelled. For Eyes, in its Answer, asserted defenses to the Company’s claims, and asserted counterclaims against the Company, including, among others, that (i) the Company has infringed For Eyes’ mark; (ii) the Company wrongfully obtained a trademark registration for its mark and that said registration should be cancelled; and (iii) the acts of the Company constitute a breach of the aforementioned settlement agreement. For Eyes seeks injunctive relief, cancellation of the Company’s trademark registration, trebled monetary damages, payment of any profits made by the Company in respect of the use of such trade name, and costs and attorney fees. While the Company believes that it will be successful in prosecuting its claims against the Defendant, and in defending against the counterclaims made by Defendant, there can be no assurance of such success. In the event that the Company is not successful, it is possible that, under certain circumstances, the Company may be limited in, or precluded from continuing, its use of the Site for Sore Eyes trade name. If the Company is successful in prosecuting its claims against Defendant in the Action, it is possible that the Company would then have a right to use the Site for Sore Eyes mark beyond the territory to which Defendant claims its use is restricted. However, if the Company is unsuccessful in prosecuting such claims, the Company could be required to recognize a charge to earnings, as the Company is currently accounting for the costs of such litigation as an Intangible Asset – Trademark. The Company currently has accumulated approximately $880,000 of costs related to such litigation. · The Company is exposed to foreign currency risk associated with TOG operations as the financial position and operating results of TOG, which operations are being calculated in Canadian Dollars and then translated into U.S. Dollars for consolidation. The Company has not implemented a hedging strategy to potentially reduce foreign currency risk. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments This Annual Report does not include information described under Item 6 of Form 10-K pursuant to the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission that permit “smaller reporting companies” to omit such information. Item 