Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below when evaluating our company and when deciding whether to invest in our company. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we do not currently believe are important to an investor may also harm our business operations. If any of the events, contingencies, circumstances or conditions described in the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or our results of operations could be seriously harmed. If that happens, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose part or all of the value of any of our shares held by you. Risks Related to Our Business Our operating results may fluctuate significantly from period to period, and this may cause our stock price to decline. Our revenue and operating results have fluctuated in the past and are expected to continue to fluctuate in the future. Given this fluctuation, we believe that quarter to quarter comparisons of revenue and operating results are not necessarily meaningful or an accurate indicator of our future performance. As a result, our results of operations 5 Table of Contents may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in the future. If this occurs, the price of our stock would likely decline. Factors that contribute to fluctuations in operating results include the following: • slowing sales by our distribution and fulfillment partners to their customers, which may place pressure on these partners to reduce purchases of our products; • volume, timing and fulfillment of customer orders; • our efforts to generate additional revenue from our portfolio of intellectual property; • concentration of operations with one manufacturing partner and our inability to control expenses related to the manufacture, packaging and shipping of our boxed software products; • customers delaying their purchasing decisions in anticipation of new versions of our products; • customers delaying, canceling or limiting their purchases as a result of the threat or results of terrorism; • introduction of new products by us or our competitors; • seasonality in purchasing patterns of our customers; • reduction in the prices of our products in response to competition, market conditions or contractual obligations; • returns and allowance charges in excess of accrued amounts; • timing of significant marketing and sales promotions; • impairment charges against goodwill and intangible assets; • in-process research and development expense relating to acquisitions; • delayed realization of synergies resulting from our acquisitions; • write-offs of excess or obsolete inventory and accounts receivable that are not collectible; • increased expenditures incurred pursuing new product or market opportunities; • general economic trends as they affect retail and corporate sales; and • higher than anticipated costs related to fixed-price contracts with our customers. Due to the foregoing factors, among others, our revenue and operating results are difficult to forecast. Our expense levels are based in significant part on our expectations of future revenue and we may not be able to reduce our expenses quickly to respond to a shortfall in projected revenue. Therefore, our failure to meet revenue expectations would seriously harm our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We have grown, and may continue to grow, through acquisitions, which could dilute our existing stockholders. As part of our business strategy, we have in the past acquired, and expect to continue to acquire, other businesses and technologies. In connection with past acquisitions, we issued a substantial number of shares of our common stock as transaction consideration and also incurred significant debt to finance the cash consideration used for our acquisitions, including our acquisitions of Dictaphone, Focus, BeVocal, VoiceSignal, Tegic, Viecore, eScription and SNAPin. We may continue to issue equity securities for future acquisitions, which would dilute existing stockholders, perhaps significantly depending on the terms of such acquisitions. We may also incur additional debt in connection with future acquisitions, which, if available at all, may place additional restrictions on our ability to operate our business. 6 Table of Contents Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions will depend on successfully integrating the acquired businesses. Our prior acquisitions required, and our recently completed acquisitions continue to require, substantial integration and management efforts and we expect our pending and future acquisitions to require similar efforts. Acquisitions of this nature involve a number of risks, including: • difficulty in transitioning and integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses; • potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; • potential difficulty in successfully implementing, upgrading and deploying in a timely and effective manner new operational information systems and upgrades of our finance, accounting and product distribution systems; • difficulty in incorporating acquired technology and rights into our products and technology; • potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process research and development; • unanticipated expenses and delays in completing acquired development projects and technology integration; • management of geographically remote business units both in the United States and internationally; • impairment of relationships with partners and customers; • assumption of unknown material liabilities of acquired companies; • customers delaying purchases of our products pending resolution of product integration between our existing and our newly acquired products; • entering markets or types of businesses in which we have limited experience; and • potential loss of key employees of the acquired business. As a result of these and other risks, if we are unable to successfully integrate acquired businesses, we may not realize the anticipated benefits from our acquisitions. Any failure to achieve these benefits or failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses and technologies could seriously harm our business. Accounting treatment of our acquisitions could decrease our net income or expected revenue in the foreseeable future, which could have a material and adverse effect on the market value of our common stock. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, we record the market value of our common stock or other form of consideration issued in connection with the acquisition and the amount of direct transaction costs as the cost of acquiring the company or business. We have allocated that cost to the individual assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including various identifiable intangible assets such as acquired technology, acquired trade names and acquired customer relationships based on their respective fair values and also to in-process research and development. Intangible assets generally will be amortized over a five to ten year period. Goodwill and certain intangible assets with indefinite lives, are not subject to amortization but are subject to an impairment analysis, at least annually, which may result in an impairment charge if the carrying value exceeds its implied fair value. As of September 30, 2008, we had identified intangible assets amounting to approximately $585.0 million and goodwill of approximately $1.7 billion. In addition, purchase accounting limits our ability to recognize certain revenue that otherwise would have been recognized by the acquired company as an independent business. The combined company may delay revenue recognition or recognize less revenue than we and the acquired company would have recognized as independent companies. Our significant debt could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our credit facility and our convertible debentures. We have a significant amount of debt. As of September 30, 2008, we had a total of $907.0 million of gross debt outstanding, including $657.0 million in term loans due in March 2013 and $250.0 million in convertible debentures which investors may require us to redeem in August 2014. We also have a $75.0 million revolving credit line 7 Table of Contents available to us through March 2012. As of September 30, 2008, there were $16.6 million of letters of credit issued under the revolving credit line and there were no other outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit line. On October 8, 2008, we drew $55.0 million against our existing revolving credit line. Our debt level could have important consequences, for example it could: • require us to use a large portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on debt, including the convertible debentures and the credit facility, which will reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development expenditures and other business activities; • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or exploiting business opportunities; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our debt, our ability to borrow additional funds, dispose of assets or pay cash dividends. Our ability to meet our payment and other obligations under our debt instruments depends on our ability to generate significant cash flow in the future. This, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors as well as other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow from operations, or that additional capital will be available to us, in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our payment obligations under the convertible debentures and our other debt and to fund other liquidity needs. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, including the convertible debentures, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. If we are unable to implement one or more of these alternatives, we may not be able to meet our payment obligations under the convertible debentures and our other debt. In addition, a substantial portion of our debt bears interest at variable rates. If market interest rates increase, our debt service requirements will increase, which would adversely affect our cash flows. While we have entered into an interest rate swap agreement limiting our exposure for a portion of our debt, the agreement does not offer complete protection from this risk. Our debt agreements contain covenant restrictions that may limit our ability to operate our business. The agreement governing our senior credit facility contains, and any of our other future debt agreements may contain, covenant restrictions that limit our ability to operate our business, including restrictions on our ability to: • incur additional debt or issue guarantees; • create liens; • make certain investments; • enter into transactions with our affiliates; • sell certain assets; • redeem capital stock or make other restricted payments; • declare or pay dividends or make other distributions to stockholders; and • merge or consolidate with any entity. Our ability to comply with these covenants is dependent on our future performance, which will be subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including prevailing economic conditions. As a result of these covenants, our ability to respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to obtain additional financing, if needed, may be significantly restricted, and we may be prevented from engaging in transactions that might otherwise be beneficial to us. In addition, our failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under our debt agreements, which could permit the holders to accelerate our obligation to repay the debt. If any of our debt is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available to repay the accelerated debt. 8 Table of Contents We have a history of operating losses, and may incur losses in the future, which may require us to raise additional capital on unfavorable terms. We reported net losses of approximately $30.1 million, $14.0 million and $22.9 million for fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We had an accumulated deficit of approximately $235.1 million at September 30, 2008. If we are unable to achieve and maintain profitability, the market price for our stock may decline, perhaps substantially. We cannot assure you that our revenue will grow or that we will achieve or maintain profitability in the future. If we do not achieve profitability, we may be required to raise additional capital to maintain or grow our operations. The terms of any transaction to raise additional capital, if available at all, may be highly dilutive to existing investors or contain other unfavorable terms, such as a high interest rate and restrictive covenants. Speech technologies may not achieve widespread acceptance, which could limit our ability to grow our speech business. We have invested and expect to continue to invest heavily in the acquisition, development and marketing of speech technologies. The market for speech technologies is relatively new and rapidly evolving. Our ability to increase revenue in the future depends in large measure on acceptance of speech technologies in general and our products in particular. The continued development of the market for our current and future speech solutions will also depend on: • consumer and business demand for speech-enabled applications; • development by third-party vendors of applications using speech technologies; and • continuous improvement in speech technology. Sales of our speech products would be harmed if the market for speech technologies does not continue to develop or develops more slowly than we expect, and, consequently, our business could be harmed and we may not recover the costs associated with our investment in our speech technologies. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and rapidly changing and we may be unable to compete successfully. There are a number of companies that develop or may develop products that compete in our targeted markets. The individual markets in which we compete are highly competitive, and are rapidly changing. Within speech, we compete with AT&T, IBM, Microsoft, Google, and other smaller providers. Within healthcare dictation and transcription, we compete with Spheris, Medquist and other smaller providers. Within imaging, we compete directly with ABBYY, Adobe, eCopy, I.R.I.S. and NewSoft. In speech, some of our partners such as Avaya, Cisco, Edify, Genesys and Nortel develop and market products that can be considered substitutes for our solutions. In addition, a number of smaller companies in both speech and imaging produce technologies or products that are in some markets competitive with our solutions. Current and potential competitors have established, or may establish, cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase the ability of their technologies to address the needs of our prospective customers. The competition in these markets could adversely affect our operating results by reducing the volume of the products we license or the prices we can charge. Some of our current or potential competitors, such as Adobe, IBM, Microsoft and Google, have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. These competitors may be able to respond more rapidly than we can to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements. They may also devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we do. Some of our customers, such as IBM, Microsoft and Google, have developed or acquired products or technologies that compete with our products and technologies. These customers may give higher priority to the sale of these competitive products or technologies. To the extent they do so, market acceptance and penetration of our products, and therefore our revenue, may be adversely affected. Our success will depend substantially upon our ability to enhance our products and technologies and to develop and introduce, on a timely and cost-effective basis, new products and features that meet changing customer requirements and incorporate technological advancements. 9 Table of Contents If we are unable to develop new products and enhance functionalities or technologies to adapt to these changes, or if we are unable to realize synergies among our acquired products and technologies, our business will suffer. The failure to successfully maintain the adequacy of our system of internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse impact on our ability to report our financial results in an accurate and timely manner. The SEC, as directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K that contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting. Any failure in the effectiveness of our system of internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse impact on our ability to report our financial statements in an accurate and timely manner, could subject us to regulatory actions, civil or criminal penalties, shareholder litigation, or loss of customer confidence, which could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could negatively impact our stock price. A significant portion of our revenue and a significant portion of our research and development are based outside the United States. Our results could be harmed by economic, political, regulatory and other risks associated with these international regions. Because we operate worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. We anticipate that revenue from international operations will increase in the future. Reported international revenue, classified by the major geographic areas in which our customers are located, represented approximately $199.2 million, $130.4 million and $100.2 million, representing 23%, 22% and 26% of our total revenue, for fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Most of our international revenue is generated by sales in Europe and Asia. In addition, some of our products are developed and manufactured outside the United States and we have a large number of employees in India that provide transcription services. A significant portion of the development and manufacturing of our speech products are completed in Belgium, and a significant portion of our imaging research and development is conducted in Hungary. We also have significant research and development resources in Aachen, Germany, Montreal, Canada and Vienna, Austria. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors associated with international sales and operations, including: • changes in a specific country’s or region’s economic conditions; • geopolitical turmoil, including terrorism and war; • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements imposed by the United States or by other countries; • compliance with foreign and domestic laws and regulations; • negative consequences from changes in applicable tax laws; • difficulties in staffing and managing operations in multiple locations in many countries; • difficulties in collecting trade accounts receivable in other countries; and • less effective protection of intellectual property than in the United States. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Because we have international subsidiaries and distributors that operate and sell our products outside the United States, we are exposed to the risk of changes in foreign currency exchange rates or declining economic conditions in these countries. In certain circumstances, we have entered into forward exchange contracts to hedge against foreign currency fluctuations. We use these contracts to reduce our risk associated with exchange rate movements, as the gains or losses on these contracts are intended to offset any exchange rate losses or gains on the 10 Table of Contents hedged transaction. We do not engage in foreign currency speculation. Forward exchange contracts hedging firm commitments qualify for hedge accounting when they are designated as a hedge of the foreign currency exposure and they are effective in minimizing such exposure. With our increased international presence in a number of geographic locations and with international revenue and costs projected to increase, we are exposed to changes in foreign currencies including the Euro, British Pound, Canadian Dollar, Japanese Yen, Israeli New Shekel, Indian Rupee and the Hungarian Forint. Changes in the value of the Euro or other foreign currencies relative to the value of the U.S. dollar could adversely affect future revenue and operating results. Impairment of our intangible assets could result in significant charges that would adversely impact our future operating results. We have significant intangible assets, including goodwill and intangibles with indefinite lives, which are susceptible to valuation adjustments as a result of changes in various factors or conditions. The most significant intangible assets are patents and core technology, completed technology, customer relationships and trademarks. Customer relationships are amortized on an accelerated basis based upon the pattern in which the economic benefits of customer relationships are being utilized. Other identifiable intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. We assess the potential impairment of identifiable intangible assets on an annual basis, as well as whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that could trigger an impairment of such assets, include the following: • significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results; • significant changes in the manner of or use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business; • significant negative industry or economic trends; • significant decline in our stock price for a sustained period; • changes in our organization or management reporting structure could result in additional reporting units, which may require alternative methods of estimating fair values or greater disaggregation or aggregation in our analysis by reporting unit; and • a decline in our market capitalization below net book value. Future adverse changes in these or other unforeseeable factors could result in an impairment charge that would impact our results of operations and financial position in the reporting period identified. As of September 30, 2008, we had identified intangible assets amounting to approximately $585.0 million and goodwill of approximately $1.7 billion. We depend on limited or sole source suppliers for critical components of our healthcare-related products. The inability to obtain sufficient components as required, and under favorable purchase terms, could harm our business. We are dependent on certain suppliers, including limited and sole source suppliers, to provide key components used in our healthcare-related products. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, delays in component deliveries, which in turn could cause delays in product shipments and require the redesign of certain products. In addition, if we are unable to procure necessary components under favorable purchase terms, including at favorable prices and with the order lead-times needed for the efficient and profitable operation of our business, our results of operations could suffer. Our sales to government clients subject us to risks including early termination, audits, investigations, sanctions and penalties. We derive revenue from contracts with the United States government, as well as various state and local governments, and their respective agencies. Our sales to government agencies have increased as a result of our acquisitions of Viecore and Dictaphone. Government contracts are generally subject to audits and investigations which could identify violations of these agreements. Government contract violations could result in a range of consequences including, but not limited to, contract price adjustments, civil and criminal penalties, contract 11 Table of Contents termination, forfeiture of profit and/or suspension of payment, and suspension or debarment from future government contracts. We could also suffer serious harm to our reputation if we were found to have violated the terms of our government contracts. We recently conducted an analysis of our compliance with the terms and conditions of certain contracts with the U.S. General Services Administration (“GSA”). Based upon our analysis, we voluntarily notified GSA of non-compliance with the terms of contracts entered into by Dictaphone Corporation, which we acquired in March 2006. The final resolution of this matter may adversely impact our financial position. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our business could be harmed. If any of our key employees were to leave, we could face substantial difficulty in hiring qualified successors and could experience a loss in productivity while any successor obtains the necessary training and experience. Our employment relationships are generally at-will and we have had key employees leave in the past. We cannot assure you that one or more key employees will not leave in the future. We intend to continue to hire additional highly qualified personnel, including software engineers and operational personnel, but may not be able to attract, assimilate or retain qualified personnel in the future. Any failure to attract, integrate, motivate and retain these employees could harm our business. Our medical transcription services may be subject to legal claims for failure to comply with laws governing the confidentiality of medical records. Healthcare professionals who use our medical transcription services deliver to us health information about their patients including information that constitutes a record under applicable law that we may store on our computer systems. Numerous federal and state laws and regulations, the common law and contractual obligations govern collection, dissemination, use and confidentiality of patient-identifiable health information, including: • state and federal privacy and confidentiality laws; • our contracts with customers and partners; • state laws regulating healthcare professionals; • Medicaid laws; and • the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and related rules proposed by the Health Care Financing Administration. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 establishes elements including, but not limited to, federal privacy and security standards for the use and protection of protected health information. Any failure by us or by our personnel or partners to comply with applicable requirements may result in a material liability to the Company. Although we have systems and policies in place for safeguarding protected health information from unauthorized disclosure, these systems and policies may not preclude claims against us for alleged violations of applicable requirements. There can be no assurance that we will not be subject to liability claims that could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Adverse changes in general economic or political conditions in any of the major countries in which we do business could adversely affect our operating results. As our business has grown, we have become increasingly subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in domestic and global economic and political conditions. For example, the direction and relative strength of the U.S. and global economics have recently been increasingly uncertain due to softness in housing markets, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others and continuing geopolitical uncertainties. If economic growth in the United States and other countries in which we do business is slowed, customers may delay or reduce technology purchases and may be unable to obtain credit to finance purchase of our products. This could result in reduced sales of our products, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. Any of these events would likely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Political instability in any 12 Table of Contents of the major countries in which we do business would also likely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Security and privacy breaches in our systems may damage client relations and inhibit our growth. The uninterrupted operation of our hosted solutions and the confidentiality of third-party information that resides on our systems is critical to our business. We have what we believe to be sufficient security around our systems to prevent unauthorized access. Any failures in our security and privacy measures could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. If we are unable to protect, or our clients perceive that we are unable to protect, the security and privacy of our electronic information, our growth could be materially adversely affected. A security or privacy breach may: • cause our clients to lose confidence in our solutions; • harm our reputation; • expose us to liability; and • increase our expenses from potential remediation costs. While we believe we use proven applications designed for data security and integrity to process electronic transactions, there can be no assurance that our use of these applications will be sufficient to address changing market positions or the security and privacy concerns of existing and potential clients. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property and Technology Unauthorized use of our proprietary technology and intellectual property could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our success and competitive position depend in large part on our ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property rights protecting our products and services. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain, license, sell or otherwise use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult and we may not be able to protect our technology from unauthorized use. Additionally, our competitors may independently develop technologies that are substantially the same or superior to our technologies and that do not infringe our rights. In these cases, we would be unable to prevent our competitors from selling or licensing these similar or superior technologies. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Although the source code for our proprietary software is protected both as a trade secret and as a copyrighted work, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Litigation, regardless of the outcome, can be very expensive and can divert management efforts. Third parties have claimed and may claim in the future that we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could be exposed to significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling our products if such claims are successful. From time to time, we are subject to claims that we or our customers may be infringing or contributing to the infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. We may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technologies and products. If it appears necessary or desirable, we may seek licenses for these intellectual property rights. However, we may not be able to obtain licenses from some or all claimants, the terms of any offered licenses may not be acceptable to us, and we may not be able to resolve disputes without litigation. Any litigation regarding intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. In the event of a claim of intellectual property infringement, we may be required to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. Third 13 Table of Contents parties claiming intellectual property infringement may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to develop and sell our products. We may incur substantial costs enforcing or acquiring intellectual property rights and defending against third-party claims as a result of litigation or other proceedings. In connection with the enforcement of our own intellectual property rights, the acquisition of third-party intellectual property rights, or disputes relating to the validity or alleged infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, including patent rights, we have been, are currently, and may in the future be, subject to claims, negotiations or complex, protracted litigation. Intellectual property disputes and litigation are typically very costly and can be disruptive to our business operations by diverting the attention and energy of management and key technical personnel. Although we have successfully defended or resolved past litigation and disputes, we may not prevail in any ongoing or future litigation and disputes. In addition, we may incur significant costs in acquiring the necessary third party intellectual property rights for use in our products. Third party intellectual property disputes could subject us to significant liabilities, require us to enter into royalty and licensing arrangements on unfavorable terms, prevent us from manufacturing or licensing certain of our products, cause severe disruptions to our operations or the markets in which we compete, or require us to satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers including contractual provisions under various license arrangements. Any of these could seriously harm our business. Our software products may have bugs, which could result in delayed or lost revenue, expensive correction, liability to our customers and claims against us. Complex software products such as ours may contain errors, defects or bugs. Defects in the solutions or products that we develop and sell to our customers could require expensive corrections and result in delayed or lost revenue, adverse customer reaction and negative publicity about us or our products and services. Customers who are not satisfied with any of our products may also bring claims against us for damages, which, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming to defend, and could result in costly litigation and payment of damages. Such claims could harm our reputation, financial results and competitive position. Risks Related to our Corporate Structure, Organization and Common Stock The holdings of our two largest stockholders may enable them to influence matters requiring stockholder approval. On March 19, 2004,Warburg Pincus, a global private equity firm agreed to purchase all outstanding shares of our stock held by Xerox Corporation for approximately $80.0 million. On May 9, 2005 and September 15, 2005, we sold shares of common stock, and warrants to purchase common stock to Warburg Pincus for aggregate gross proceeds of approximately $75.1 million. Additionally, on May 20, 2008, Warburg Pincus purchased 5,760,369 shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase 3,700,000 shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $100.5 million. As of September 30, 2008, Warburg Pincus beneficially owned approximately 21% of our outstanding common stock, including warrants exercisable for up to 10,766,538 shares of our common stock and 3,562,238 shares of our outstanding Series B Preferred Stock, each of which is convertible into one share of our common stock. As of September 30, 2008, Fidelity was our second largest stockholder, owning approximately 8% of our common stock. Because of their large holdings of our capital stock relative to other stockholders, each of these two stockholders acting individually, or together, have a strong influence over matters requiring approval by our stockholders. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations, and this may make it difficult for you to resell the common stock when you want or at prices you find attractive. Our stock price historically has been, and may continue to be, volatile. Various factors contribute to the volatility of the stock price, including, for example, quarterly variations in our financial results, new product introductions by us or our competitors and general economic and market conditions. Sales of a substantial number 14 Table of Contents of shares of our common stock by our two largest stockholders, or the perception that such sales could occur, could also contribute to the volatility or our stock price. While we cannot predict the individual effect that these factors may have on the market price of our common stock, these factors, either individually or in the aggregate, could result in significant volatility in our stock price during any given period of time. Moreover, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock often are subject to securities class action litigation. If we were the subject of such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the rules of The Nasdaq Global Select Market, are resulting in increased general and administrative expenses for companies such as ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies, our business may be harmed. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and our ability to raise funds in new stock offerings. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing trading prices of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-related securities. In connection with past acquisitions, we issued a substantial number of shares of our common stock as transaction consideration. We may continue to issue equity securities for future acquisitions, which would dilute existing stockholders, perhaps significantly depending on the terms of such acquisitions. For example, we issued, and registered for resale, approximately 10.6 million shares of our common stock in connection with our recently completed acquisition of SNAPin. No prediction can be made as to the effect, if any, that future sales of shares of common stock, or the availability of shares of common stock for future sale, will have on the trading price of our common stock. We have implemented anti-takeover provisions, which could discourage or prevent a takeover, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law, as well as other organizational documents could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include: • authorized “blank check” preferred stock; • prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; • limiting the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; • requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at meetings of our stockholders; and • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of directors and for stockholder proposals. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 15 Table of Contents 