ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks, uncertainties and other factors described below, in addition to the other information set forth in this report, because they could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition, cash flows and prospects as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from the Angio-Seal, which is manufactured, marketed and distributed by St. Jude Medical. Under our license agreements with St. Jude Medical, the Angio-Seal is manufactured, marketed and sold on a worldwide basis by St. Jude Medical. Two of our significant sources of revenue are the sale of components to St. Jude Medical for use in the Angio-Seal device and royalty income from the sale of the Angio-Seal device to the end-user market. The amount of revenue we receive from the Angio-Seal device depends, in part, on the time, effort and attention that St. Jude Medical devotes to it, and on their success in manufacturing, marketing and selling the device worldwide. Under the terms of our licenses with St. Jude Medical, we have no control over the pricing and marketing strategy for the Angio-Seal product line. In addition, we depend on St. Jude Medical to successfully maintain levels of manufacturing sufficient to meet anticipated demand, abide by applicable manufacturing regulations and seek reimbursement approvals. St. Jude Medical can terminate the license agreement for any reason upon 12 months notice. St. Jude Medical may not adequately perform its manufacturing, marketing and selling duties. Any such failure by St. Jude Medical may negatively impact Angio-Seal unit sales and, therefore, reduce our royalties. Recently, St. Jude Medical acquired the assets of Datascope Corporation’s vascular closure business. This could impact the future sales of collagen supplied by the Company to St. Jude Medical. We derive a substantial majority of our revenues from only three customers. A substantial majority of our total revenues are derived from only three customers. For fiscal 2008, royalty income from and sales of components to St. Jude Medical represented approximately 46% of our total revenue, sales of biomaterials products to Arthrex represented approximately 18% of our total revenues, and royalty income from and sales of biomaterials products to Orthovita represented approximately 15% of our total revenues. It is not possible for us to predict the future level of demand for our products that will be generated by these customers or the future demand for the products in the end-user marketplace. Our customer concentration exposes us to the risk of changes in the business condition of any of our major customers and to the risk that the loss of a major customer would materially adversely affect our results of operations. Our relationship with these customers is subject to change. 18 Table of Contents If our biomaterials products are not successful, our operating results and business may be substantially impaired. The success of our biomaterials products, depends on a number of factors, including our ability to continue to manufacture, sell and competitively price these products and the acceptance of these products by the medical profession. In addition, regulatory approvals will be required before biomaterials products in development can be sold. We will require substantial additional funds to develop and market our biomaterials products. We expect to fund the growth of our biomaterials business from operating income, but this operating income may not be sufficient to develop new biomaterials products. To date, we have relied on strategic partners or customers to market and sell our biomaterials products. If we cannot attract third parties to work with us to distribute our products to the end-user market, we will not be successful. We depend on our customers to market and, in some cases, obtain regulatory approvals for their biomaterials products. We depend on the efforts of our biomaterials customers in marketing their products that include our biomaterials components. There can be no assurance that our customers' end-use products that include our biomaterials components will be commercialized successfully by our customers or that our customers will otherwise be able to compete effectively in their markets. While we take steps toward obtaining regulatory approval under certain of our partnerships and for some of our customers, in other cases, we rely on others to do these activities independently. There can be no assurance that our partners or customers will be successful in obtaining such regulatory approvals. The markets for our products are highly competitive and are likely to become more competitive, and our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. The markets for our current and proposed products are fragmented, intensely competitive, subject to rapid change and sensitive to new product introductions and enhancements. We expect that the competitive environment for our products will become more intense as additional companies enter our markets, and as new techniques and technologies are adopted. Our biomaterials and medical devices compete directly and indirectly with a range of products and technologies produced by a wide variety of companies, as well as other processes and procedures which do not require the use of our products or those of our competitors. Many of our existing competitors, as well as a number of potential new competitors, have longer operating histories in these markets, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and greater financial, technical and marketing resources. Our biomaterials products compete with the products of many of the larger companies in the industry. In the vascular sealing device market, our products compete with products sold by Abbott Laboratories, Inc., and Medtronic, Inc., along with other smaller competitors and potential new entrants. The majority of vascular sealing is performed through manual compression, which represents our primary competition. The endovascular products we provide to Spectranetics compete with a large number of companies, many of whom have dedicated significantly more resources to research and development and sales and marketing than Spectranetics has. These companies include Johnson & Johnson, Inc., Medtronic, Inc., Abbott Laboratories, Inc., Vascular Solutions, Inc., Boston Scientific Corporation, EV3, Inc., and Possis Inc. Our competitors may have broader product lines, which allow them to negotiate exclusive, long-term supply contracts and offer comprehensive pricing for their products. Broader product lines may also provide our competitors with a significant advantage in marketing competing products to group purchasing organizations and other managed care organizations that are increasingly seeking to reduce costs through centralized purchasing. Greater financial resources and product development capabilities may allow our competitors to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements that may render our products obsolete. 19 Table of Contents Competition faced by our customers could also have an adverse effect on our business for a variety of reasons, including that our customers may compete directly with larger, dominant manufacturers with extensive product lines and greater sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. We are also unable to control other factors that may impact the commercialization of our components for end use products, such as marketing and sales efforts and competitive pricing pressures within particular markets. Our endovascular products were recently sold to Spectranetics. If any or all of these products fail to gain market acceptance or if Spectranetics fails to successfully commercialize them, our business may suffer. Due at least in part to their recent commercial introductions, as well as the fact that they are new to the Spectranetics product portfolio, these endovascular products have limited product and brand recognition, and limited usage to date. We do not know if these products will be successful over the long term, or if they will be adopted by the physician community at rates that in turn generate enough revenue for us to sustain our ongoing investment in this business, although, in any event, we are required by contract to continue such investment. Market acceptance of these products may be hindered if physicians are not presented with compelling data from long-term studies of the safety and efficacy of the products compared to alternative procedures. In addition, demand for the products may not increase as quickly as we expect due to competitive and other factors. If our products are not accepted by the medical community, or if our products are replaced by new technologies, our business may suffer. The success of our existing products depends on acceptance of these products by the medical community, which we cannot predict. The success of any products we develop in the future will depend on their adoption by our targeted markets. We cannot predict how quickly, if at all, the medical community will accept our future products, or the extent to which our future products will be used. If we encounter difficulties introducing future products into our targeted markets, our operating results and business may be substantially impaired. In addition, new technologies and techniques may be developed which may render obsolete our current products, along with those under development. Our strategic endovascular relationship could be negatively impacted by adverse results of the FDA and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) investigation of Spectranetics. Spectranetics announced on September 4, 2008 that it had been jointly served by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) with a search warrant issued by the United States District Court, District of Colorado. According to Spectranetics’ public disclosure, the search warrant requested information and correspondence relating to: (i) the promotion, use, testing, marketing and sales regarding certain of the company’s products for the treatment of in-stent restenosis, payments made to medical personnel and an identified institution for this application, (ii) the promotion, use, testing, experimentation, delivery, marketing and sales of catheter guidewires and balloon catheters manufactured by certain third parties outside of the United States, (iii) two post-market studies completed during the period from 2002 to 2005 and payments to medical personnel in connection with those studies and (iv) compensation packages for certain of the company’s personnel. Although we do not believe this investigation relates to any of our endovascular products sold to Spectranetics, our business may be adversely impacted if Spectranetics is unable to market and sell our products, or if this investigation diverts focus and attention away from selling the endovascular products we sold to them. 20 Table of Contents The loss of, or interruption of supply from, key vendors could limit our ability to manufacture our products. We purchase many materials and components for our products from various suppliers. Certain of these materials and components are custom made for us, and we have no ready alternative source. We also rely heavily on our closed-herd sourcing infrastructure, for our collagen manufacturing, which cannot be readily replicated. Any loss of, problems with, or interruption of supply from, key vendors may require us to find new vendors. We could experience production or development delays while we attempt to seek new vendors, if we can find them. We may have problems manufacturing and delivering our biomaterials products to our customers. The biomaterials industry is an emerging area, using many materials which are untested or whose properties are still not known. In addition, many of our products are derived from natural materials, such as collagen, which can have varying properties, may be subject to international standards concerning their use in medical devices and require careful sourcing and handling controls. Consequently, from time to time we may experience unanticipated difficulties in manufacturing and delivering our biomaterials products to our customers. These difficulties may include an inability to meet customer supply demands, delays in delivering products, quality control problems with certain biomaterials products, or the need to react to changes in any standard that we adhere to. While we believe our closed herd sourcing infrastructure provides us with an adequate risk management protection mechanism for preventing animal derived diseases from entering the human medical device industry, there can be no assurance that our measures will be adequate. We have had product recalls that have resulted in significant expense and may result in other future expense or changes to product strategy. We experienced start-up production issues and component supply issues which resulted in product recalls, as disclosed under “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”. These product recalls caused an adverse affect to our net sales and operating results during fiscal 2007. In addition to lost sales directly resulting from recalls, and the direct expenses associated with such resolution, a recall may have other materially adverse, and potentially longer-term effects, including a negative impact on our reputation in the marketplace with respect to these and other of our products, changes to future product marketing plans, changes to clinical trial plans, and discontinuation of the recalled products. Our use of hazardous materials exposes us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. We use hazardous substances in our research and development and manufacturing operations, and, therefore, are potentially subject to material liabilities related to personal injuries or property damages that could be caused by hazardous substance releases or exposures at or from our facility. Decontamination costs, other clean-up costs and related damages or liabilities could substantially impair our business and operating results. We are required to comply with increasingly stringent laws and regulations governing environmental protection and workplace safety, including requirements governing the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous substances. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived directly or indirectly from international markets. St. Jude Medical derives a significant portion of its Angio-Seal revenue from international markets. Many of our other biomaterials products are also sold by our customers in international markets. Our sales and royalties from international sales of the Angio-Seal product line by St. Jude Medical and our revenues from our other international sales are subject to several risks, including: • the impact of recessions in economies outside the United States; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, reimbursement policies, tariffs or other trade barriers; • weaker intellectual property rights protection in some countries; 21 Table of Contents • fluctuations in exchange rates; • potentially adverse tax consequences; and • political and economic instability. The occurrence of any of these events could seriously harm St. Jude Medical’s or our future international sales. Our business could be harmed if we lose the services of our key personnel. Our business depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel, including managerial, sales and technical personnel. The know-how and capabilities of many of our current employees is highly specialized and difficult to replicate or replace in short timeframes. We compete for key personnel with other companies, healthcare institutions, and other organizations. Our ability to maintain and expand our business may be impaired if we are unable to retain our current key personnel or hire or retain other qualified personnel in the future. Our failure to expand our management systems and controls to support anticipated growth or integrate future acquisitions could seriously harm our operating results and business. Our operations are expanding and we expect this trend to continue as we execute our business strategy. Executing our business plan has placed significant demands on management and our administrative, operational, information technology, manufacturing, financial and personnel resources. Accordingly, our future operating results will depend on the ability of our officers and other key employees to continue to implement and improve our operational, customer support and financial control systems, and effectively expand, train and manage our employee base. We may not be able to manage our growth successfully. Any acquisitions that we undertake could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or harm our operating results. We may acquire or make investments in complementary businesses, technologies, services or products if appropriate opportunities arise. The process of integrating any acquired business, technology, service or product into our business and operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Integration of any acquired company also may consume much of our management’s time and attention that could otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business. Moreover, the anticipated benefits of any acquisition may not be realized. Furthermore, we may be unable to identify, negotiate or finance future acquisitions successfully. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses related to goodwill and other intangible assets. Our future operating results are difficult to predict and may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Our operating results have varied significantly from quarter to quarter in the past and are likely to vary substantially in the future as a result of a number of factors, some of which are not in our control, including: • ordering patterns by our customers/partners • the focus and resources that our customers/partners place on developing/marketing the products that we develop and manufacture; • acceptance of the products we develop and manufacture in the end-user marketplace; • our ability to attract partners for our biomaterials products and technologies; • our efforts to gain CE Mark and FDA approval for any future generations of endovascular or biomaterials devices; 22 Table of Contents • the loss of significant orders; • changes in our relationship with St. Jude Medical and other major customers; • establishment of strategic alliances or acquisitions; • timely implementation of new and improved products; • delays in obtaining regulatory approvals; • reimbursement rates for our products; and • changes in the competitive environment. You should not rely upon our results of operations for any particular quarter as an indication of our results for a full year or any other quarter. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we are unable to protect our patents and proprietary rights, our reputation and competitiveness in the marketplace may be materially damaged. We regard our patents, biomaterials trade secrets and other intellectual property as important to our success. We rely upon patent law, trade secret protection, confidentiality agreements and license agreements to protect our proprietary rights. Although we have registered certain of our patents with applicable international governmental authorities, effective patent protection may not be available in every country in which our products are made available, and we have not sought protection for our intellectual property in every country where our products may be sold. The steps we take to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to ensure that third parties will not infringe or otherwise violate our patents or similar proprietary rights. We may be accused of infringing upon the proprietary rights of others and any related litigation could materially damage our operating results and business. Third parties may claim that we have violated their intellectual property rights. An adverse determination in any intellectual property litigation or interference proceedings brought against us could prohibit us from selling our products, subject us to significant liabilities to third parties or require us to seek licenses from third parties. The costs associated with these license arrangements may be substantial and could include ongoing royalties. Furthermore, the necessary licenses may not be available to us on satisfactory terms, if at all. Adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products. Any of these claims, with or without merit, could subject us to costly litigation and divert the attention of key personnel. The validity of our patents may be challenged by a competitor. Third parties may claim that one of our patents is invalid based on their prior disclosure or that of another party, whether such disclosure is in a patent application or not. This type of challenge may be made in any country where our patents are issued. While we undertake to search the prior art, there is no guarantee that we find all existing incidences of disclosure of devices or technologies related to our inventions. Any of these claims, with or without merit, could subject us to costly litigation and divert the attention of key personnel. We do not own or control the use of the Angio-Seal device trademark. The term Angio-Seal is a trademark of St. Jude Medical. All goodwill generated by the marketing and sales of devices bearing the Angio-Seal trademark belongs to St. Jude Medical and not to us. Should the St. Jude Medical license agreements terminate, we would not have the right to call any of our products “Angio-Seal” unless we purchase or license the trademark from St. Jude Medical. 23 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Industry We may face product liability claims that could result in costly litigation and significant liabilities. The clinical testing, manufacture and sale of medical products involve an inherent risk that human subjects in clinical testing or consumers of the products may suffer serious bodily injury or death due to side effects or other unintended negative reactions to our products. Accordingly, the clinical testing, manufacture and sale of our products entail significant risk of product liability claims. The medical device industry in general has been subject to significant product liability litigation. Any product liability claims, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation, reduced sales, significant liabilities and diversion of our management’s time, attention and resources. We cannot be sure that our product liability insurance coverage is adequate or that it will continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. We face uncertainty relating to third party reimbursement for our products. We could be seriously harmed by changes in reimbursement policies of governmental or private healthcare payers, particularly to the extent any changes affect reimbursement for catheterization procedures in which our Angio-Seal products are used. Physicians, hospitals and other users of our products may fail to obtain sufficient reimbursement from healthcare payers for procedures in which our products are used or adverse changes may occur in governmental and private third-party payers’ policies toward reimbursement for these procedures. The decision by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) not to reimburse for treatment of asymptomatic patients suffering from carotid artery disease was a major factor in our decision not to continue to commercialize our embolic protection product line. Similar decisions, or changes to reimbursement policy, could harm our business. Our products and manufacturing activities are subject to extensive governmental regulation that could make it more expensive and time consuming for us to introduce new and improved products or cause us to withdraw products from certain markets. Our products and manufacturing activities are subject to extensive regulation by a number of governmental agencies, including the FDA and comparable international agencies. We are required to: • obtain the approval of the FDA and international agencies before we can market and sell new products; • satisfy these agencies’ requirements for all of our labeling, sales and promotional materials in connection with our existing products; • comply with all applicable manufacturing regulations; and • undergo rigorous inspections by these agencies. Compliance with the regulations of these agencies may delay or prevent us from introducing any new or improved products. Furthermore, we may be subject to sanctions, including temporary or permanent suspension of operations, product recalls and marketing restrictions if we fail to comply with the laws and regulations pertaining to our business. We are also required to demonstrate compliance with the FDA’s Quality System Regulations. The FDA enforces its Quality System Regulations through pre-approval and periodic post-approval inspections. These regulations relate to product testing, vendor qualification, design control and quality assurance, as well as the maintenance of records and documentation. If we are found to be out of compliance with FDA regulations, it could be costly and difficult for us to correct the non-compliances and could seriously harm our business. The FDA and international regulatory agencies may also limit the indications for which our products are promoted. These regulatory agencies may restrict or withdraw approvals if information becomes available to support this action, which could include actions based on sourcing of animal derived tissue. 24 Table of Contents Risks Related To Our Securities The trading price of our common stock is likely to fluctuate substantially in the future. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, some of which are not in our control, including: • changes in our own forecasts or earnings estimates by analysts; • our customers and licensees’ ability to meet or exceed the forecasts or expectations of analysts or investors; • our ability to meet or exceed our own forecasts or expectations of analysts or investors; • quarter to quarter variations in our operating results; • announcements regarding clinical activities or new products by us or our competitors; • general conditions in the medical device industry; • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market, which have particularly affected the market prices of many medical device companies; and • general economic conditions. In addition, the market for our stock has experienced, and may continue to experience, price and volume fluctuations unrelated or disproportionate to our operating performance. As a result, you may not be able to sell shares of our common stock at or above the price at which you purchase them. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. If any securities litigation is initiated against us, with or without merit, we could incur substantial costs, and our management’s attention and resources could be diverted from our business. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and Delaware law may discourage an acquisition of our Company. Provisions of our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 