Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. See “Forward-Looking Statements”. Overview Kensey Nash Corporation is a leading medical technology company providing innovative solutions and technologies for a wide range of medical procedures. We have expanded well beyond our beginnings in vascular puncture closure and today provide an extensive range of products into multiple medical markets, primarily in the cardiovascular, sports medicine and spine markets. As the inventor of the Angio-Seal™ Vascular Closure Device (Angio-Seal), a device designed to seal and close femoral artery punctures made during diagnostic and therapeutic cardiovascular catheterizations, we were the first company to place an absorbable biomaterial device into the human vascular system. As pioneers in this field of absorbable biomaterials, we have developed significant expertise in the design, development, manufacture and processing of absorbable biomaterials for medical applications. Our most recent advance into the cardiovascular market is the TriActiv® Embolic Protection System (the TriActiv System), a device designed to prevent microparticulate (very small particles of debris) from traveling downstream during the treatment of diseased coronary saphenous vein bypass grafts. We have created a new endovascular division responsible for the direct sales and marketing of the TriActiv System in the U.S. We are developing additional applications of the TriActiv technology, including devices with and without embolic protection, as part of our direct marketing strategy. We believe our direct strategy in the endovascular markets will allow us to maximize our return on our TriActiv technology. We have expanded from an Angio-Seal derived revenue base of $3.0 million in the year of our initial public offering (IPO) (fiscal year ended June 30, 1996) to $61.4 million in total revenue in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005 (fiscal 2005), diversified across three primary markets (shown below). This increase in revenue represents a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 40% and has been driven by our commitment to research and development of new solutions to existing and evolving medical problems. The following chart details our total revenues of $61.4 million for fiscal 2005 by market. Total revenues include net sales, research and development revenue and royalty income. Our initial success was with the Angio-Seal, which we invented and developed and subsequently licensed. St. Jude Medical, Inc. (St. Jude Medical) acquired the worldwide license to the Angio-Seal device in March of 1999. St. Jude Medical has the worldwide exclusive rights for the development, manufacturing and sales and marketing of the Angio-Seal. The Angio-Seal was commercialized in the U.S. in 1996 and is currently the leading product in the vascular closure device market with end-user product sales by St. Jude Medical of $304 million in our fiscal 2005, up 21% from $251 million in fiscal 2004. The vascular puncture closure market is estimated to have a potential $1 billion annual worldwide market with current penetration of approximately 45% to 50%. We receive a 6% royalty on all end-user Angio-Seal sales. In addition, we exclusively manufacture one of the key absorbable components of the Angio-Seal, the collagen plug and also manufacture a minimum of 30% of the polymer anchors, for St. Jude Medical under a new supply agreement that expires in 2010. The royalty decreased to 6% from 9%, as specified in the license agreement, in April 2004 upon the achievement of four million cumulative Angio-Seal units sold. Royalties and the sales of components contributed $18.5 million and $15.8 million of our total royalty income and net sales lines, respectively, for fiscal 2005, or a total of $34.3 million of our total revenues. Our Angio-Seal licensing agreement with St. Jude Medical continues for the life of our most recently issued Angio-Seal applicable patent, which was issued in July 2000 with an expiration date in 2017. While cardiovascular disease treatment market trends and techniques may 2 change over the next several years, including the further development and commercialization of non-invasive diagnostic imaging techniques, we believe the current methodology for diagnostic cardiovascular catheterizations will remain the standard of care for the near and mid-term. In addition, we believe the penetration of vascular closure devices in conjunction with cardiovascular catheterizations will continue to grow and the Angio-Seal will continue to play a dominant role in the vascular closure market resulting in continued growth of our Angio-Seal related revenues. We have leveraged our knowledge gained during the development process of the absorbable biomaterials components of the Angio-Seal, the anchor and the collagen plug, as a springboard into the application of absorbable biomaterials into multiple medical markets. Our extensive experience and knowledge with these biomaterials has enabled us to become experts in the design, development, manufacture and processing of proprietary biomaterials products. We have since applied this expertise in to the fields of orthopaedics (including sports medicine and spine), cardiology, drug/biologics delivery, periodontal, general surgery and wound care. We have several strategic partnerships and alliances through which our biomaterials products are developed and marketed. We intend to continue to leverage our proprietary knowledge and expertise in each of these markets to develop new products and technologies and to explore additional applications for our existing products. Sales of our biomaterials products in fiscal 2005 were $39.9 million (including sales of the Angio-Seal components), an increase of 10% over the prior year. We expect continued growth in sales of biomaterials products in fiscal 2006 as sales of our sports medicine product lines return to growth and cardiovascular product sales, primarily Angio-Seal components, continue on an upward ramp. We have also developed the TriActiv® Embolic Protection System, a device designed to provide embolic protection during the treatment of diseased vessels, with an initial application in diseased coronary saphenous vein grafts (SVG) (the use of the Saphenous vein, a vein in the leg, as a bypass to a native coronary artery). This saphenous vein graft market opportunity is currently estimated at $100—$200 million annually. The TriActiv device is a balloon embolic protection device in a market addressed by both balloon and filter devices. While both approaches have pros and cons, we believe the unique design of the TriActiv device as a system offering three key features- an embolic protection balloon, a flush catheter and an active, controlled extraction system- offers the most complete and effective solution for embolic protection. The original TriActiv System was commercially launched in Europe in May 2002 using a direct sales force in Germany and distributors throughout the rest of Europe. In the United States the TriActiv device was launched in April 2005, following March 2005 receipt of FDA clearance, through our newly created endovascular direct sales force. Our sales team in the U.S. currently includes 12 sales representatives strategically located throughout the U.S. The TriActiv FX, is a next generation version of the original device that primarily enhances ease-of-use and was launched in Europe in April 2005 and is in a clinical trial in the U.S. We anticipate enrollment in this U.S. clinical trial, the ASPIRE study, will be complete by December 2005 with a U.S. commercial launch of the FX device during our fourth fiscal quarter of fiscal 2006. We cannot make any assurances as to the successful completion of this trial or regulatory approval for the TriActiv FX System or for future applications in the U.S. or in Europe. It is anticipated that future generations of the TriActiv platform, currently in development, will be designed to address additional markets. These future applications will potentially include the treatment of diseased carotid arteries, lower extremities, and native coronary arteries as well as acute myocardial infarction (AMI) (a heart attack) and the removal of thrombus (fresh clot material in an artery). Industry estimates indicate that the addition of these applications broadens the potential market for the TriActiv platform to $500 million to $1 billion. As we have little experience with our new direct sales and marketing efforts on the TriActiv System, it is difficult to forecast sales for fiscal 2006 and beyond. However, we believe the TriActiv System may have distinct competitive advantages over the existing balloon and filter embolic protection devices currently in the market. As a result of the growth of all of the above detailed product lines as well as our plans for the future growth of such product lines and new additions to our portfolio, we believed our current leased facilities would not support the near and long-term facility requirements for manufacturing and continued development. We started the construction of a new facility in Exton, Pennsylvania in August 2004 and expect the completion of construction and complete transition of our entire operation by June 30, 2006. The new facility will incorporate a 198,000 square foot shell and 175,000 square feet of interior fit-out and will be completed in three phases, beginning in December 2005, through the end of fiscal 2006. We will be abandoning all leasehold improvements at our existing facilities at the time of transition and have estimated the total charge related to such abandonment to be $4.9 million. We began recording this charge as an acceleration of deprecation on the related assets on May 1, 2005, upon finalization of our transition plan, and will record the remainder of the total charge through June 30, 2006. In addition, we anticipate moving costs of approximately $400,000 during fiscal 2006 related to the transition. Biomaterials Biomaterials – Market Overview Biomaterials, which are substances that treat, augment, or replace tissue, organs or body functions, are used regularly as components and elements in a wide variety of absorbable and permanent implants. Advances in materials technology and a better understanding of the biological processes involved in tissue formation and remodeling have led to the rapid introduction of absorbable biomaterials-based products to address long-standing deficiencies of traditional products and therapies. This trend has been observed in many markets, including orthopaedic, general, urological, cosmetic, and dental surgeries and generally in increased opportunities for drug and biologics delivery. Generally, absorbable biomaterials-based products have proven attractive solutions for a number of reasons. First, physicians prefer to have natural tissue instead of artificial tissue when healing is completed. Absorbable biomaterials offer this possibility. Second, in certain reparative procedures, physicians generally prefer to use an implant that will not require a second surgery to remove the device. Third, the rate of absorption of products can be carefully engineered to promote healing as the biomaterials-based products work with and assist the body’s natural healing response. Additionally, absorbable biomaterials offer potential for drug delivery specific to the clinical situation. The ability to provide staged and sustained release of drugs and biologics offers significant potential for growth in the use of absorbable biomaterials-based products. 3 Our Biomaterials Business, Technology and Products We have grown our biomaterials business from just $247,000 in fiscal 1996 (the year of our IPO) to $39.9 million in fiscal 2005, representing 76% CAGR. Not only have we grown the business in terms of revenue generated, we have diversified our products across multiple markets from a base consisting entirely of cardiology products in fiscal 1996. The chart below shows our biomaterials sales of $39.9 million by market for fiscal 2005: Biomaterials continue to be a source of new emerging technologies for our company. Alongside our Angio-Seal and TriActiv platforms, we have built a solid reputation and significant market presence in the development of biomaterials based medical implants. The technological challenges involved in developing biomaterials products are substantial. Developing products made from absorbable biomaterials, such as polymers, collagen, polysaccharides and ceramics, requires an understanding of mechanical integrity, biocompatibility and absorption rates, as well as the ability to sterilize these products without jeopardizing their material properties. Our expertise in biomaterials enables us to design, develop and manufacture proprietary biomaterials products to achieve the desired clinical outcomes. These products are characterized by their ability to be absorbed or incorporated in the body’s own tissue. Our particular expertise is in the properties, usage and processing of polymers, collagen, ceramics and other absorbable materials. We believe that our diverse platforms in, and significant experience with, biomaterials technology give us a competitive advantage because many participants in the market specialize in only non-absorbable biomaterials, only one absorbable biomaterial or have far less breadth of experience in biomaterials. Our background with multiple materials enables us to provide essential biomaterials building blocks across multiple biomaterials platforms to address specific product needs in a wide variety of markets. • Polymers. We were pioneers in the design, development and manufacture of absorbable polymer products. We use many different types of polymers, in combination or as single entities, to achieve the desired properties in a particular product. We have developed several unique polymer-based materials, products and processes, which have a variety of applications in implantable absorbable medical devices. We offer our customers and partners a complete solution, including product design and engineering, tool design, process development, commercial manufacture and packaging configuration. Our polymer technology platform includes a porous tissue matrix (PTM) technology which allows us to create porous implants which support cell growth, tissue regeneration and the delivery of biologics, growth factors and drugs. The implants are designed to facilitate wound healing in both bone and soft tissue and are bioabsorbable at controlled rates for specific functions and tissues. We have a series of products and development programs underway utilizing intellectual property related to our porous biodegradable regeneration matrices. Specifically, we are researching applications for articular cartilage regeneration, spinal disc repair, spinal fusion, vascular grafts, and bone growth scaffolds for spinal and trauma indications. Many of these programs as well as specific programs incorporate the delivery of drugs and growth factors. • Collagen and Other Naturally-Occurring Materials. We design, develop and manufacture products using naturally-occurring materials such as collagen, elastin, hyaluronic acid and alginate, which have applications in a wide variety of absorbable medical devices. We have significant experience and expertise in processing collagen into diverse product formulations, including powders, gels, pastes, sponges and structural matrices. We combine collagen and other naturally occurring materials using our proprietary processes, thereby creating new materials with unique characteristics and diverse product applications. 4 • Ceramics Products. We have significant experience using various ceramic materials, primarily with calcium salts such as hydroxyapatite, Beta Tri-Calcium Phosphate, DiCalcium Phosphate and others. These materials naturally help to replicate bone structure and support new bone growth as part of osteoconductive implants (implants which promote bone regrowth) through the cells natural affinity for calcium based materials, one of the major components of bone. Ceramics are also useful for enhancing the material properties of products, such as strength, when used in combination with other biomaterials. We have expertise in the compounding of ceramic materials with various absorbable polymers to enhance strength characteristics, primarily for orthopaedic applications. We are currently working with select orthopaedic customers to incorporate various bio-active ceramics into their existing products or to develop new products and properties. In addition, we are independently developing blended materials, using ceramics in combination with other biomaterials such as collagen, for applications in filling of bone defects and fracture repair and spinal fusion. We participate in the biomaterials market in several ways: • We manufacture biomaterials products as raw materials for our customers who incorporate them into their products; • We manufacture complete products incorporating our biomaterials and provide the finished products to our customers for distribution; • We provide our customers with a variety of proprietary products ranging from components to final packaged products, which are then marketed and sold to end users; • We independently design and develop biomaterials based products that may more effectively solve clinical problems and offer strategic market advantage for our customers; and • We design and develop potential enhancements to our customers’ products. A majority of our biomaterials sales are concentrated among a few strategic customers and partners. The relationship with these customers and partners is generally long-term and contractual in nature, with contracts specifying the characteristics of the product to be supplied and pricing. Our products often represent a key strategic source for these customers and partners. In many cases, the technology incorporated in the product is our proprietary technology. As a result, we view our customer relationships as a long-term sustainable competitive advantage. We have established several strategic partnerships with companies selling biomaterials based products. We act as a strategic partner and are often the exclusive supplier of certain biomaterials technology to our customers. Our largest biomaterials customers include St. Jude Medical, to whom we supply Angio-Seal components, Arthrex, Inc. (Arthrex), to whom we supply a broad range of sports medicine products, and Orthovita, Inc. (Orthovita), to whom we supply bone healing and repair products for use in repair of the spine, osteoporotic fractures and trauma injuries. We also supply biomaterials products and development expertise to multiple other leading orthopaedic companies. We continue to independently develop new proprietary products, to pursue other strategic partnerships in multiple fields of use, including spine and sports medicine, cardiology, wound repair, aesthetics and drug delivery, among others. We also continue to work with both leading and emerging companies to commercialize biomaterials-based technology to maximize our return on our increased investment in these products. As we continue to increase our investment in the development of new biomaterials and products, we believe we will be able to increase our margins on commercialized products through efficiencies using our biomaterials technology. We have products that are commercially available for sale in the U.S. and international markets, and products that are in various stages of development, clinical trials or regulatory review. Additionally, we have biomaterials research programs, which we believe will provide us with opportunities to expand our product offerings and strategic alliances. The following are descriptions of the markets into which our biomaterials products are being placed, as well as the applications for which our products and technology are currently being used or have future potential use. Orthopaedic Products. Nowhere is the transition to biomaterials based products more evident than in the orthopaedics market where absorbable biomaterials have reduced healing times, improved patient outcomes and lessened or eliminated morbidity issues related to the use of autologous tissue as graft material. While traditional surgical methodologies continue to be utilized, the trend toward new biomaterial-based products is driving innovation and growth in the orthopaedic industry. 5 Orthopaedic applications of biomaterials include repair, regeneration or augmentation of musculoskeletal tissues, including bone, cartilage, ligaments, spinal discs and tendons. Companies in this market often look to third parties to develop and manufacture their product concepts into marketable products as their traditional expertise is in metallic devices. Our capabilities and expertise have enabled us to develop relationships with several major orthopaedic companies, to which we provide our biomaterials products. The orthopaedic portion of our biomaterials business represented 53% of our total biomaterials sales for fiscal 2005. Applications in the orthopaedic market for our biomaterials products include sports medicine, spinal fusion, intervertebral disc repair (repair of the discs between the bones of the spine) and trauma fixation. Many of our biomaterials products manufactured from absorbable materials are designed to replace metallic devices used in the fixation and repair of musculoskeletal tissues. Use of absorbable biomaterials eliminates the need for a second surgery, which is frequently necessary to remove non-absorbable metallic implants like bone screws, plates and pins. This benefit provides our customers with a cost-effective alternative to traditional non-absorbable based products. Sports Medicine. Sports medicine is a broad area of healthcare that includes medical management and treatment of injury in persons engaged in sports and exercise. Sports injuries, once most commonly associated with professional athletes, are becoming commonplace in our increasingly active population. This trend, in conjunction with an increasingly active and growing elderly population and increasing patient demand for continued athletic performance, is driving the discovery of new products and technologies. Soft Tissue Fixation. The primary application for our biomaterials in the sports medicine segment is soft tissue fixation. Soft tissue fixation includes the repair of tendons and ligaments in the knee, such as the anterior cruciate ligament and the meniscus, and in the shoulder, such as the rotator cuff. We manufacture products for all of these applications. Trauma Fixation. Trauma fixation devices are used to repair broken bones using nails, screws, plates, pins and bone growth stimulation techniques. We currently manufacture trauma screws for orthopaedic repair. Cartilage Regeneration. Articular cartilage covers the opposing surfaces of all moving joints in the body. Significant debilitation can result from even minor injury to articular cartilage. U.S. physicians perform over 500,000 procedures each year to repair damaged cartilage in the knee. A majority of these are repeat procedures, illustrating the ineffectiveness of current therapeutic approaches. Over time, debilitating osteoarthritis may develop in the afflicted joint, ultimately requiring knee replacement or other invasive treatment. The healing and growth properties of absorbable biomaterials make them ideal for use as the foundation for cartilage regeneration, as they are bioabsorbable at controlled rates for specific tissues. We recently completed research of a novel device utilizing our PTM technology under a grant from the National Institute of Standards and Technologies (NIST) as well as through our own funding. This research culminated in the performance of two large pre-clinical studies. In late fiscal 2005 we engaged in a formal development program with key surgical opinion leaders in the field to take this research into further pivotal pre-clinical studies and ultimately into human clinical studies. Sports medicine products represented 35% of our total biomaterials product sales in fiscal 2005. Spine. The application of biomaterials is an increasingly important aspect of the spinal surgery market. For both repair and fusion of the vertebrae, the bones of the spinal column, as well as treatment of degenerated intervertebral discs, the soft, gel-like cushions between each vertebra, biomaterials have unique properties for enhanced treatment of spinal disease. Spinal Fusion. Spinal fusion procedures are performed when conservative treatment for back pain fails and where intervertebral discs have become so degenerated that the resultant anatomy causes pressure on the nerve. Surgery is performed to fuse two or more of the vertebrae together to stabilize the spinal column and maintain normal anatomical relationships surrounding the nerves. A trend that is garnering significant attention is the introduction of growth factors delivered via biomaterials matrices into the spinal fusion market. These materials speed the fusion process and result in generally a more predictable bone healing process. In addition, bone void fillers and alternatives to autografts (bone harvested from cadavers) are increasingly being used in conjunction with interbody spacers (metal cages) in spinal fusion procedures, as well as to fill the voids left by bone harvest procedures. 6 In March 2003, we entered an agreement with Orthovita to commercialize new products based on Orthovita’s proprietary VITOSS bone graft substitute material in combination with our proprietary biomaterials. The new products build upon the VITOSS technology, a resorbable porous calcium phosphate scaffold that allows for resorption, cell seeding and rapid in-growth of host bone. The products are directed toward the spinal surgery market, which we believe to be the fastest growing market in orthopaedics, estimated at $1.2 billion on a worldwide basis. Under the agreement, we manufacture the products and Orthovita markets and sells the products worldwide. The first products under this agreement, VITOSS Scaffold FOAM strips and cylinders, which are synthetic bone substitutes, were launched in March 2004. VITOSS Scaffold FOAM FLOW, a flowable version of the strips and cylinders, was launched in July of 2004 while VITOSS Scaffold FOAM shapes and VITOSS Scaffold FOAM pack were launched in October 2004 and May 2005, respectively. Many of these products, specifically FOAM shapes, have applications in general orthopaedic repair, as well as in the spine market. Spine products represented 19% of total biomaterials product sales in fiscal 2005. Bone. Next to blood, bone is the most commonly transplanted tissue in humans. It is estimated that more than 500,000 bone-grafting procedures are performed annually in the U.S. Surgeons today have few choices for materials used in bone grafting. Therefore, the need for an improved alternative to currently available materials remains an important issue in orthopaedic, including spine and sports medicine, and maxillofacial surgery. We are developing several different bone graft substitutes fabricated from collagen, synthetic polymers or composite biomaterials. We also manufacture, for a strategic partner, a resorbable growth factor delivery matrix that is commercially available outside the U.S. Extensive pre-clinical study of our synthetic polymer bone graft substitute has shown it to be an excellent carrier of biologically active agents as well as a suitable substrate for bone formation and healing. However, we cannot make any assurances that our products in development will result in a successful commercial product in the U.S. or in Europe. Cardiology Products. Our biomaterials are used in vascular puncture closure products and coatings for synthetic vascular grafts. These cardiology products represented 42% of our total biomaterials sales in fiscal 2005. In addition, we have examined the feasibility of an absorbable polymer matrix to deliver angiogenic growth factors to promote the growth of new blood vessels for use in myocardial revascularization procedures and are exploring the use of our biomaterials in an arterial stent. Further, we are developing a synthetic vascular graft utilizing our PTM technology. Vascular. Medical options for resolving arterial blockage include vessel replacement or bypass surgery to divert blood flow around an obstruction. Over 1.7 million surgical procedures are performed annually worldwide that employ some type of arterial graft; nearly 900,000 of them require grafts of a very small diameter. Vein grafts or mammary arteries, taken from the patient’s leg or chest, respectively, are the only reliable choice available for those small diameter-grafting procedures. Although the standard of care today, these grafts have significant issues related to availability, performance, trauma and expense. Recognizing this significant medical need, we are developing a synthetic technology that incorporates multiple biomaterials into an “off-the-shelf” implantable graft. In fiscal 2002, we received a three-year, $1.9 million award from the Advanced Technology Program (ATP) of NIST to support development of this technology. Under this grant, we performed small animal studies, demonstrating 180-day graft patency. We have an additional follow-up study planned for fiscal 2006, under which we will perform a large animal study where we can test the effectiveness of a more relevant or proportional sized graft. Drug/Biologics Delivery Products. Biomaterials are particularly useful for the controlled release of drugs and other biologically active agents such as growth factors. In these applications, the drug is deposited or incorporated into a biomaterials delivery matrix. As the matrix dissolves or is degraded by the body, the drug is gradually released. The use of a biomaterials matrix for drug delivery permits a locally targeted, low-dose release profile, improving the delivery of the drug. The PTM technology provides benefits that traditional biomaterials do not offer, as the porosity of the material provides additional release capabilities. Utilizing our PTM technology, we are researching sustained or controlled release of chemotherapeutic drugs for the treatment of breast cancer. We began this research under a National Institute of Health (NIH) grant received in fiscal 2003. 7 Wound Care Products. While the wound care market is currently dominated by conventional bandages and dressings and surgical staples or sutures, there is a new generation of products resulting from recent advances in biomaterials, tissue engineering and biotechnology. Our biomaterials are used in topical wound dressing products, accounting for less than 1% of our total biomaterials sales for fiscal 2005. Periodontal Products. Biomaterials are commonly used in the periodontal segment of the dentistry market. We have two commercialized products in the periodontal field, the Drilac® product, which prevents dry socket following tooth extraction, and the Epi-Guide® barrier membrane, used in periodontal restorative procedures to prevent soft tissue cells from growing into space reserved for bone. These two products together accounted for approximately 1% of our total biomaterials sales in fiscal 2005. Our Strategy for Growth of Our Biomaterials Business. We intend to utilize our experience and expertise in the design, development and processing of the above materials to expand our market penetration in biomaterials products and technology. Our strategy to accomplish this expansion is as follows: • Develop New Proprietary Biomaterials Products. We continue to leverage our technology and expertise in polymers, collagen and other absorbable and nonabsorbable materials to develop new proprietary biomaterials products. We are using this expertise to develop new biomaterials products, new formulations and applications of existing materials and products. We are seeking regulatory approval for our proprietary PTM technology-based product with application in the orthopaedics market. We are in the final phases of pre-clinical development of a cartilage regeneration product and are researching a vascular graft application, both of which utilize our PTM technology, and have significant market opportunity if and when they are proven in clinical settings. • Expand Our Existing Biomaterials Business. We intend to aggressively work to increase sales to our current customers and attract new customers by providing proprietary, technologically superior biomaterials products. We offer a complete range of services including design, development, regulatory consulting, manufacturing and package engineering. We intend to continue to invest in new manufacturing technology and processes to meet our customers’ requirements, support product launches and increase the demand for our biomaterials products. Additionally, we intend to expand our marketing efforts to broaden our customer base in the orthopaedic, cardiology, drug/biologics delivery, periodontal, general surgery and wound care markets. • Pursue Strategic Acquisitions and Alliances. We intend to continue to seek strategic acquisitions and alliances which add complementary technologies and expertise, broaden our intellectual property portfolio and strengthen our competitive position in our biomaterials business. We believe that our expertise in biomaterials allows us to identify and attract these opportunities. The TriActiv® Embolic Protection System Embolic Protection – Market Overview Embolic protection systems are designed to provide protection during the treatment of diseased vessels (arteries or veins). Vessels become diseased when deposits of cholesterol and other fatty materials (plaque) on the walls of the vessels cause narrowing or blockage of the vessel and reduce the blood supply to a vital organ. Embolic protection systems are designed to capture debris dislodged from the wall of a vessel during balloon angioplasty or the placement of a stent. This debris, left uncaptured, might otherwise be released into the vascular system and result in complications such as a heart attack or stroke. Current approaches to embolic protection include distal balloons and filters. The balloon or filter is placed distal (on the far side) to the area of the vessel to be treated to capture debris loosened during the procedure. Existing worldwide commercial applications for embolic protection devices include the treatment of diseased saphenous vein grafts (SVGs) and carotid and peripheral arteries. These protection devices have been clinically proven to reduce complication rates associated with device-based treatment of diseased vessels. Applications are under clinical investigation for the treatment of diseased native coronary arteries, the removal of thrombus and acute myocardial infarction (AMI) (a heart attack). The initial indication for our TriActiv System is the treatment of diseased SVGs. The TriActiv device received regulatory clearance from the FDA in March 2005 and is commercially available in the U.S. Europe and India. Saphenous Vein Graft Market Due primarily to the availability of drug eluding stents and changing surgical practices, the number of coronary bypass surgeries which use saphenous veins has been decreased in recent years. The market, however, remains 8 large due to the number of bypass procedures that were performed in the last decade. In 2001, there were approximately 500,000 coronary bypass surgeries performed annually worldwide and approximately half of all these bypass grafts become diseased or occluded within ten years of surgery, resulting in a pipeline of patients who will eventually require treatment of one or more diseased grafts. During many coronary bypass procedures, the saphenous vein is removed from the patient’s leg and is surgically implanted to bypass a diseased or occluded native coronary artery. The SVG is used as a replacement for the diseased or occluded native coronary artery to restore blood flow. Current treatment options for diseased SVGs include drug therapy, device-based therapies (including angioplasty and the placement of stents) or repeat bypass surgery. There are significant risks involved with these treatments ranging from continued progression of disease, heart attack and possible death. Specifically, during the treatment of diseased SVGs via device-based therapy, the rate of major complication (known as the MACE (major adverse cardiac event) rate) without embolic protection is approximately 15 to 20%. These complications occur primarily because the material clogging the SVG is dislodged during the treatment and released into the vasculature causing clots or heart attack. Embolic protection is a method of preventing this debris from going downstream during device-based therapy procedures. Current devices in the SVG embolic protection market, which have been clinically proven to reduce the complication rates during device-based therapy, include balloon (devices which completely occlude the artery to prevent the passage of debris) and filter-based (devices which allow the continued flow of blood but also the passage of small-sized debris) therapies. Carotid Artery Market The number of people with carotid artery disease is thought to be well in excess of 500,000 people worldwide. The standard of care to treat the most serious of cases is endarterectomy, a procedure which is performed over 200,000 times per year. Other patients are generally managed medically or undiagnosed. An endarterectomy is an open invasive surgical procedure performed to remove debris from the carotid artery. It is also known that a significantly larger number of patients are affected by carotid artery disease, with many going untreated due to the invasiveness of the surgical endarterectomy procedure. With the advent of carotid stenting in combination with embolic protection devices continuing to show promising results, it is believed that carotid stenting with embolic protection could become the standard of care for the treatment of carotid artery disease and limit the number of patients who go untreated. Native Coronary Arteries and AMI Markets Distal embolization of plaque is increasingly recognized as a contributor to complication rates in common percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) and stent placement procedures. This seems to be particularly apparent in AMI or heart attack patients where a significant amount of blood clot or thrombus is often present. If the thrombus embolizes (goes downstream), it generally leads to adverse short-term and/or long-term outcomes for the patients. Embolic protection and thrombus removal devices have been studied as tools for lowering complication rates in these patients but have not yet proven clinical benefit. The TriActiv® System We have designed the TriActiv System, a balloon based embolic protection therapy, to provide distal embolic protection during the treatment of diseased arteries or vessels. In addition to the balloon protection, the TriActiv System utilizes active flushing and extraction to remove debris from the vessel after a treatment procedure. The initial application for the TriActiv System is the treatment of diseased SVGs. We believe the TriActiv System is currently the only device which offers all three of the following features: • an embolic protection balloon placed beyond the treatment area to prevent debris from flowing downstream and potentially causing a heart attack; • a flush catheter advanced over a guidewire that delivers fluid to the vessel; and • an active, controlled extraction system, which removes the debris. To operate the TriActiv System, a guiding catheter is positioned at the entrance to the graft. The guidewire, containing the embolic protection balloon, is advanced through the SVG beyond the occlusion. The embolic protection balloon is inflated and a stent is placed in the vessel at the occlusion. Following stent placement, saline and contrast media are delivered into the graft from the flush catheter to dislodge the occlusive material. The particles and debris that are dislodged by the flush system are extracted through the lumen of the guiding catheter. 9 In Europe, we received CE Mark approval for the TriActiv System in January 2002. The CE Mark is an international symbol of adherence to quality assurance standards established by the European Union and compliance with applicable European medical device directives. The European commercial launch of the original TriActiv System for the treatment of diseased SVGs occurred in May 2002 and we shipped our first product in June 2002. The TriActiv FX, a second generation of the TriActiv System also for diseased SVG treatment with improvements aimed at ease-of-use, was launched in Europe in April 2005. Our subsidiary in Germany, Kensey Nash Europe GmbH, consists of six employees and is responsible for the sales and marketing of the TriActiv System product platform in Europe. This team sells the product directly to the German market and supports our distributor relationships in the rest of Europe and Asia. In the U.S., we completed enrollment in the PRotection during Saphenous Vein Graft Intervention to Prevent Distal Embolization (PRIDE) Trial in March of 2004. The PRIDE Trial was a randomized, controlled study of 894 patients at 68 investigational sites in the U.S. and 10 sites in Europe. The PRIDE trial demonstrated non-inferiority of the TriActiv System to other commercially available embolic protection devices, as measured by the primary endpoint of 30-day Major Adverse Cardiac Event (MACE) rates. The clinical data showed a 10.2% MACE rate for procedure related events for the TriActiv System compared to 10.1% for the active control group, which represented the approved devices for this indication (GuardWire® from Medtronic, another balloon device, and FilterWire™ from Boston Scientific, a filter device). Complication rates often run as high as 20% in vein graft procedures performed without embolic protection systems. We completed a 510(k) submission to the FDA for commercial approval of the TriActiv System in July 2004. The FDA grants 510(k) clearance when it determines that a new device is substantially equivalent to an approved device. In March 2005, we received FDA clearance to market and sell the TriActiv System commercially in the United States and commercially launched the product in April 2005. We are commercially marketing and selling the TriActiv platform through our endovascular direct sales force in the U.S. We had U.S. product sales of $213,000 for the quarter ended June 30, 2005, our first quarter of U.S. sales, and to-date have opened over 60 accounts at hospitals throughout the U.S. Future Generations of the TriActiv System We have and are currently modifying the design of the TriActiv System to improve the ease-of-use for SVG applications as well as to address additional applications where distal embolization is a concern. These additional applications include the treatment of carotid, native coronary and peripheral arteries and AMI, as well as thrombus removal. The second-generation SVG application device, the TriActiv FX, has been designed to improve the ease-of-use of the original device and was launched in Europe in April of 2005. We are also conducting a U.S. clinical trial registry, the ASPIRE (Angioplasty in SVGs with Post Intervention Removal of Embolic Debris) trial, on the TriActiv FX. Enrollment in the ASPIRE study began in March 2005 and we anticipate enrollment to be completed by December 2005, with FDA clearance anticipated during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006. We cannot make any assurances as to the successful completion of this trial or regulatory approval for the TriActiv FX System or for future applications in the U.S. or in Europe. Adding additional features to enhance ease-of-use and system performance, we have also developed a new TriActiv System to incorporate “local flush and extraction”. The TriActiv LFX (LFX), a SVG application of the device for use in Europe and the TriActiv Carotid System for use in carotid stenting procedures. We completed a six patient pilot study, the TRACER study, on an early version of the TriActiv Carotid System in September 2003. This study was completed at one clinical site in Costa Rica. The TriActiv Carotid System was successfully used to provide protection from potential stroke-causing emboli by actively removing debris during carotid stenting procedures. The Thrombus Removal Flush & Extraction System has been designed to remove thrombus from vessels. We anticipate 510(k) clearance for anarteriovenous graft (AV Graft) application of the Thrombus Removal Flush & Extraction System during fiscal 2006. The Angio-Seal™ Device Vascular Puncture Closure – Market Overview Vascular puncture closure is the closing and sealing of femoral artery punctures made during cardiovascular catheterizations. Current treatment options include manual pressure and device based therapy. Existing device-based treatment options consist of either biomaterial-based devices or suture-based devices. Leading cardiology industry journals currently estimate that there are approximately 7.3 million cardiovascular catheterization procedures performed annually, which translates to a potential worldwide vascular puncture closure market of approximately $1 billion annually. The U.S. market represents 10 approximately 70-75% of this total market opportunity. Industry estimates of current market penetration for vascular puncture closure devices are approximately 50% and 38% for the U.S. and the international markets, respectively, or 47% worldwide. The Angio-Seal System The Angio-Seal puncture closure device is a biomaterial-based device, which acts to close and seal femoral artery punctures made during diagnostic and therapeutic cardiovascular catheterizations. The device consists of four components: • an absorbable polymer anchor seated securely against the inside surface of a patient’s artery at the point of puncture; • an absorbable collagen plug applied adjacent to the outside of the artery wall; • an absorbable suture; and • a delivery system consisting of an insertion sheath, puncture locator, guidewire and tamper tube. The anchor and suture act as a pulley to position the collagen into the puncture tract adjacent to the outside of the artery wall to seal and close the puncture. A tamper tube is used to further position and secure the closure device. The anchor, collagen and suture are all designed to be absorbed into the patient’s body within 60 to 90 days after the procedure. We believe that this mechanical (anchor and collagen) and biochemical (collagen) approach offer physicians a method for sealing and closing punctures with significant advantages over traditional manual or mechanical compression methods, as well as over other competitive products. The Angio-Seal product has been proven to have several advantages over traditional manual or mechanical compression procedures, including: reduced time to ambulation and hemostasis, reduced staffing and hospital time, possible reduction in procedure costs, increased patient comfort, greater flexibility in post-procedure blood thinning therapy and increased blood flow to the leg. The Angio-Seal device has become the leading product in the worldwide vascular puncture closure market. The Angio-Seal has been sold in Europe since 1995, in the U.S. since 1996 and was launched in Japan in late 2003. There have been approximately 5.9 million Angio-Seal devices sold as of June 30, 2005. Industry estimates show the Angio-Seal market share of the worldwide vascular puncture closure market at June 30, 2005 was approximately 65%, compared to approximately 60% at June 30, 2004. We believe the impact of continued sales and marketing efforts by St. Jude Medical, along with product enhancements planned by St. Jude Medical, will provide continued growth opportunities into the future. The Angio-Seal device is manufactured, marketed, sold and distributed by St. Jude Medical. We receive a 6% royalty on Angio-Seal net sales. Angio-Seal royalty income was $18.5 million in fiscal 2005, a 12% decrease from fiscal 2004 of $20.9 million. The decrease in royalty income was due to a 33% decline, from 9% to 6%, in the contracted Angio-Seal royalty rate which occurred in April 2004. Our royalty rate as of June 30, 2005 was 6%. There are no further royalty rate reductions under the licensing agreement. The original rate of 12% was contractually reduced from 12% to 9%, in accordance with our License Agreements, during the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2000, when a cumulative one million Angio-Seal units had been sold. The final contracted decrease in the royalty rate, to 6%, occurred upon reaching four million cumulative units sold in April 2004. In fiscal 2005, the decrease in royalty rate was partially offset by a greater number of units sold as well as an increase in the average selling price for the Angio-Seal. Royalty units increased 19%, as approximately 1.6 million Angio-Seal units were sold to end-users during fiscal 2005 compared to approximately 1.3 million units sold during fiscal 2004. In addition to royalty income, we generate sales from the manufacture of the collagen plug and anchor components for the Angio-Seal device. In June 2005, we entered into a five and one-half year Supply Agreement with St. Jude Medical. Under this agreement, we will be the exclusive supplier of the collagen plug component as well as a partial supplier of the anchor component. Sales of Angio-Seal components to St. Jude Medical were $15.8 million in fiscal 2005 compared to $12.8 million in fiscal 2004. Patents and Proprietary Rights Our intellectual property covers many fields and areas of technology including vascular puncture closure, blood vessel location, arterial revascularization and embolic protection systems, drug/biologics delivery, wound care, periodontics, angiogenesis products and surgical instruments. We protect our technology by, among other things, filing patent applications for the patentable technologies that we consider material to our business. Our first U.S. patent for arterial revascularization was issued in 1986 and for the concept of sealing vascular punctures, in 1988. As of September 6, 2005, we held 107 United States patents and 84 foreign national patents and had various United States patents and foreign national patent applications pending. 11 We also rely heavily on trade secrets and unpatented proprietary know-how which we seek to protect through non-disclosure agreements with corporations, institutions and individuals exposed to our proprietary information. As a condition of employment, we require that all full-time and part-time employees enter into an invention assignment and non-disclosure agreement. Additionally, non-compete agreements are being utilized for certain employees who are exposed to our most sensitive trade secrets. We have licensed our United States and foreign patents for the Angio-Seal device to St. Jude Medical and are required to license all improvements for the device to St. Jude Medical. The license agreements with St. Jude Medical are exclusive and worldwide, with rights to make, use and sell the Angio-Seal device, but are limited to the cardiovascular field of use only. We intend to continue to aggressively protect new manufacturing processes, biomaterials products and technologies and medical products and devices which we have invented or developed. We intend to broaden the scope of our intellectual property and consider our core technologies to be critical to our future product development. Manufacturing We have developed unique manufacturing and processing capabilities for absorbable collagen and polymers. We manufacture numerous absorbable biomaterials products for use in applications that include orthopaedics, cardiology, drug/biologics delivery, periodontal, general surgery and wound care. We have also established manufacturing processes and capabilities for the TriActiv device, which we currently manufacture for the U.S. and European commercial markets and for ongoing clinical trials. We have our own capabilities in tool and die making, injection molding, extrusion, compounding, machining, model making and laser welding, which allow us to engineer our products in development on site. Our FDA-registered manufacturing facility in Exton, Pennsylvania contains separate areas for the TriActiv System and absorbable collagen and polymer manufacturing. While our facility is currently adequate to handle ours as well as our customers’ product volumes, we will complete the construction of a new facility by the end of fiscal 2006 to facilitate future growth of all product lines (see discussion of our new facility in Item 2 below). Our manufacturing facility is equipped with multiple ISO class 8 clean room facilities and is certified to international quality standard: ISO 13485. Certification is based on adherence to established standards of design, service, quality assurance and manufacturing process control. In fiscal 2005 we applied for and received EDQM (European Directorate and Quality of Medicine) certification which ensures the safety of our collagen products. Our manufacturing facility is subject to regulatory requirements and periodic inspection by regulatory authorities. We have a separate in-house quality assurance department that sets standards, monitors production, creates and reviews operating procedures and protocols and performs final testing of sample devices and products manufactured by or for us. We purchase most raw materials, parts and peripheral components used in our products. Although many of these supplies are off-the-shelf items readily available from several supply sources, others are custom-made to meet our specifications. We maintain safety stock levels of these custom materials to prevent any product downtime in the case of supply interruption. In addition, we believe that, in most of these cases, alternative sources of supply for custom-made materials are available or could be developed within a reasonable period of time. Research and Development Our research and development and regulatory and clinical staff consisted of 103 individuals as of September 6, 2005. Our research and development efforts are focused on the continued development of the TriActiv System and our biomaterials capabilities. We incurred total research and development expenses of $15.1 million, $16.4 million, and $14.5 million in fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. In addition to the resources dedicated to the product development process, we have an internal regulatory affairs and clinical management staff responsible for managing our clinical trials and obtaining regulatory approvals for our products. Our staff also works closely with several of our customers to obtain regulatory approvals for their products in the U.S., the European Union and several other countries. Our Relationship with St. Jude Medical The Angio-Seal is licensed to St. Jude Medical, which manufactures, markets and sells the Angio-Seal worldwide. Under our license agreements, St. Jude Medical has exclusive rights to manufacture, market and distribute all versions of the patented Angio-Seal for hemostatic puncture closure for cardiovascular use worldwide. We retain the rights to use this technology for other applications. We earn a royalty on Angio-Seal net sales by St. Jude Medical. 12 The term of the license agreements extends to the expiration date of the most recently issued licensed patent, including all continuations or supplements. The most recent patent for the Angio-Seal technology was issued in July 2000. St. Jude Medical may terminate the license agreements at any time after the end of the fifth royalty year, which ended September 30, 2001, for any reason upon 12 months notice. Upon termination, all rights, including sales, marketing, manufacturing and distribution rights would become the exclusive property of Kensey Nash. The Angio-Seal trademark would be retained by St. Jude Medical. If a license under any third-party patent is necessary to make, use or sell the Angio-Seal product licensed to St. Jude Medical, any payments and royalties for such third-party license and any related attorney’s fees, will be deducted from payments due to us, on a territory-by-territory basis, in an amount not to exceed in any one year one-half of any royalties in any such territory for that year. Currently, the Angio-Seal product requires no such license for a third-party patent. In June 2005, we entered into a five and one-half year Supply Agreement with St. Jude Medical. Under this agreement, we will be the exclusive supplier of the collagen plug component as well as a partial supplier of the anchor component. Sales and Marketing The TriActiv System In January 2002, we established Kensey Nash Europe GmbH in Eschborn, Germany for the purpose of selling and marketing the TriActiv device in Europe. The TriActiv device was commercially launched in Europe in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2002 (fiscal 2002). We are selling the system direct to the market in Germany and through distributors for the rest of Europe and in India. We have entered into distribution agreements for sales in the United Kingdom, Ireland, Switzerland, Austria, Italy and India and are in the process of identifying distributors for the rest of Europe and Asia. At September 6, 2005 we had 5 individuals on the European sales and marketing team, which includes sales people and clinical specialists. In the U.S. we have developed a direct sales and marketing team to market and sell the TriActiv System. At September 6, 2005, we had twenty-four individuals on the U.S. sales and marketing team, including 12 sales representatives. Biomaterials Sales and marketing efforts for our biomaterials products are primarily conducted by our senior management team. Sales are concentrated among a few customers and partners and our marketing efforts are focused more on the sale of our technology and expertise than on specific products. When appropriate, we seek to partner with a sales and marketing organization to commercialize or advance our proprietary products and technologies. Competition The markets for our current and proposed products are fragmented, intensely competitive, subject to rapid change and sensitive to new product introductions and enhancements. We expect that the competitive environment for our products will become more intense as additional companies enter our markets and as new techniques and technologies are adopted. Our biomaterials and medical devices compete directly and indirectly for customers with a range of products and technologies produced by a wide variety of companies, as well as other processes and procedures which do not require the use of our products or those of our competitors. Many of our existing competitors, as well as a number of potential new competitors, have longer operating histories in these markets, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and greater financial, technical and marketing resources. Generally, we believe that the principal competitive factors for our products include: • the ability to obtain regulatory approvals; • safety and effectiveness; • performance and quality; • ease of use; • marketing; • distribution; • pricing; • cost effectiveness; 13 • customer service; • the development or acquisition of proprietary products and processes; • the ability to attract and retain skilled personnel; • improvements to existing technologies; • reimbursement; and • compliance with regulations. Our biomaterials products compete with the products of many of the larger companies in the industry. In the vascular sealing device market, our products compete with products sold by Datascope Corporation, Abbott Laboratories, Medtronic and Vascular Solutions, Inc., as well as other smaller competitors. While we consider the Angio-Seal and other sealing devices to be a superior method of vascular sealing, the majority of vascular sealing is still performed through manual compression, which represents our primary competition. The TriActiv device is commercially available in the United States, Europe and India, where our competitors include Boston Scientific Corporation, Johnson and Johnson, Inc., Medtronic, Inc., Abbott Laboratories and Guidant Corporation, among others. Customers In fiscal 2005, we had approximately 24 customers for our biomaterials products, excluding our periodontal products, which are sold directly to periodontists around the country. Three customers each accounted for more than 10% of our total revenues for the fiscal year. Royalty income from and sales of biomaterials to St. Jude Medical, associated with the Angio-Seal, represented approximately 57% of total revenues. Sales of biomaterials products to Arthrex, a leading orthopaedic products company, represented approximately 21% of total revenues. Royalty income from and sales of Vitoss FOAM products to Orthovita, a publicly held orthopaedic biomaterials company, represented approximately 16% of total revenues. Our TriActiv device is being sold to hospitals throughout the U.S. and Europe either through our direct sales force or through distributors. TriActiv sales represented 1% of total revenues. Following is a chart of our total revenues showing each of our three major customers, the TriActiv System, and all other customers as a percentage of total revenues. Government Regulation Our medical devices are subject to extensive regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and by foreign governments. The FDA regulates the clinical testing, design, manufacture, labeling, distribution and promotion of medical devices. Noncompliance with applicable requirements can result in fines, injunctions, civil penalties, seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, failure to grant pre-market clearance or pre-market approval for devices, withdrawal of marketing approvals and criminal prosecution. The FDA also has the authority to recall or request repair, replacement or refund of the cost of any device we manufacture or distribute. International sales of medical devices are subject to the regulatory agency product registration requirements of each country in which they are sold. The regulatory review process varies from country to country. Many countries also impose product standards, packaging requirements, labeling requirements, price restraints and import restrictions on devices. Delays in receipt of, or a failure to receive, approvals or clearances, or the loss of any previously received approvals or clearances, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, reimbursement coverage must be obtained in some countries. Generally, our biomaterials products are incorporated by our customers into another product which receives FDA and other government approvals. We maintain device master files for some of our biomaterials products containing information relating to the specifications, manufacturing, biochemical characterization, biocompatibility and viral safety of our biomaterials products. These files, in addition to our technical expertise, help our clients in their regulatory approval process for products incorporating our biomaterials. 14 In January 2002, we received CE Mark approval from the European regulatory authority for the TriActiv device, which allows commercial sale of the product in the European Union. In the U.S., a large randomized pivotal study (the PRIDE Study) was conducted to provide safety and efficacy data for approval of the device. Enrollment in the PRIDE Study occurred between December 2001 and March 2004. Data from the PRIDE Study was presented to the FDA in a 510(k) submission for pre-market approval of the device in July 2004. We received clearance from the FDA in March 2005, allowing commercial sale of the TriActiv System in the United States. The TriActiv FX, the second-generation TriActiv device, is in a U.S. clinical trial registry, the ASPIRE (Angioplasty in SVGs with Post Intervention Removal of Embolic Debris) trial. Enrollment in the ASPIRE study began in our third quarter of fiscal 2005 and is expected to be completed by December 2005 with FDA clearance anticipated during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006. The data from the approximately 100 patient study will support U.S. clearance for an SVG indication. Studies to support the approval of the device in other indications are also planned to start in fiscal year 2006. The Angio-Seal product line has received both CE Mark and FDA approval. St. Jude Medical is responsible for all future FDA pre-market approval application supplements for the Angio-Seal. When human clinical trials of a device are required in connection with our new proprietary products and the device presents a significant risk, we must file an investigational device exemption (IDE) application with the FDA in order to commence human clinical trials. The IDE application must be supported by data, typically including the results of animal and laboratory testing. If the IDE application is approved, human clinical trials may begin at a specific number of investigational sites with a specific number of patients, as approved by the FDA. The conduct of human clinical trials is also subject to regulation by the FDA. Sponsors of clinical trials are permitted to sell those devices distributed during the course of the trial provided such compensation does not exceed recovery of the costs of manufacture, research, development and handling. Similar approvals are required to conduct clinical trials in foreign countries. Any products we manufacture or distribute pursuant to FDA clearance or approvals are subject to pervasive and continuing regulation by the FDA, including recordkeeping requirements and reporting of adverse experiences with the use of the device. As a device manufacturer, we are required to register our manufacturing facility with the FDA and list our devices with the FDA, and are subject to periodic inspections by the FDA and certain state agencies. The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act requires devices to be manufactured in accordance with Quality System regulations which impose certain procedural and documentation requirements with respect to manufacturing and quality assurance activities. Labeling and promotional activities are subject to scrutiny by the FDA and, in certain instances, by the Federal Trade Commission. The FDA actively enforces regulations prohibiting marketing of products for unapproved uses. Manufacturers are also subject to numerous federal, state and local laws relating to such matters as safe working conditions, manufacturing practices, environmental protection, fire hazard control and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances. We may be required to incur significant costs to comply with such laws and regulations in the future and any failure to comply with such laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect upon our ability to do business. Employees As of September 6, 2005, we had 333 employees, including 168 employees in operations, 103 employees in research and development and clinical and regulatory affairs, 32 employees in finance and administration and 30 employees in sales and marketing, including five employees in Europe. All of our U.S. employees are located at our facilities in Exton, Pennsylvania, with the exception of six clinical specialists, 12 sales representatives, 4 clinical support staff and 2 members of the sales and marketing senior management located elsewhere throughout the country. We believe that our success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain employees in all areas of our business. Corporate Governance and Internet Address We recognize that good corporate governance is an important means of protecting the interests of our stockholders, employees, customers, and the community. We have closely monitored and implemented relevant legislative and regulatory corporate governance reforms, including provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley), the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) interpreting and implementing Sarbanes-Oxley, and the corporate governance listing standards of the NASDAQ National Market (NASDAQ). Our corporate governance information and materials, including our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, are posted on the corporate governance section of our website at www.kenseynash.com and are available in print upon request to our Investor Relations department at our offices in Exton, Pennsylvania. Our Board regularly reviews corporate governance developments and modifies these materials and practices as warranted. 15 Our website also provides information on how to contact us and other items of interest to investors. We make available on our website, free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to these reports, as soon as practical after we file these reports with the SEC. 