Item 1A. Risk Factors The following is a discussion of certain factors that currently impact or may impact our business, operating results and/or financial condition. You should carefully consider these factors before making an investment decision with respect to our Common Stock. Our operating results are primarily dependent on the success of our feature films, and forecasting is extremely difficult. In 2006, our revenue, operating results, and earnings per share will be largely dependent upon (1) the timing and amount of worldwide revenues and distribution costs for Cars, The Incredibles, Finding Nemo, and the titles in our film library, (2) the timing, accuracy, and sufficiency of information we receive from Disney to determine revenues and associated gross profits, (3) the timing and amount of non-film related revenues and expenses, (4) the accuracy of our assumptions and judgments used to estimate certain revenues and associated gross profits, (5) the market price of our Common Stock and related volatility and (6) domestic and international socioeconomic and political events that are beyond our control. 18 Table of Contents Dependence on revenue from our feature films. Under the current Co-Production Agreement, which governs our relationship with Disney regarding the Pictures, Pixar and Disney share equally in the profits of our animated feature films after Disney recovers its distribution fee and its marketing and distribution costs. Pursuant to the Distribution Letter Agreement, which governs Pixar’s relationship with Disney regarding its 2007 film Ratatouille, Pixar will receive all gross receipts of Ratatouille after Disney recovers its distribution fee and its marketing and distribution costs. Marketing and distribution costs include worldwide theatrical release costs, costs related to marketing and distribution of home videos in the United States and international markets, costs related to merchandise, and other distribution costs including third party participations and residuals. We remain dependent on the timing, accuracy, and sufficiency of information provided by Disney. For our business to be successful, our films must achieve box office success. While we have been successful in the release of all six of our feature films, this level of success is highly unusual in the motion picture industry, and our future releases may not achieve similar results. For fiscal year 2006, we will be dependent primarily on the worldwide theatrical and worldwide home video releases and merchandising revenues of Cars, as well as the ongoing performance of our other titles. Forecasting film revenue and associated gross profits from our feature films is extremely difficult. Although we have experienced a successful track record with the releases of our feature films, it is difficult to predict the worldwide box office success of Cars prior to its anticipated theatrical release on June 9, 2006. Even if Cars experiences a very successful worldwide theatrical run, it is difficult to predict the related home video, television licensing, merchandising and ancillary revenue streams. While customer acceptance of a film is initially measured by box office success, customer acceptance within each follow-on product category, such as home video, merchandise or television, depends on factors unique to each type of product, such as pricing, competitive products, and the time of year or state of the economy into which a product is released, among many other factors. In addition, we have found that the degree of customer acceptance varies widely among foreign countries. While box office success is often a good indicator of general audience acceptance, the relative success of follow-on products is not always directly correlated, and the degree of correlation is difficult to predict. It is also difficult to forecast the amount of revenues from The Incredibles, Finding Nemo and the titles in our film library. The revenues generated from continued home video and merchandise sales can fluctuate due to various market factors. Because the revenues from films nearing the end of their life cycle tend to be relatively small, minor fluctuations can result in notable variances from our forecast. With respect to the difficulty of forecasting the timing of revenues, Disney distributes our films and film-related products and therefore determines the timing of product releases. Although we are moving towards a strategy to release our films theatrically worldwide within a narrower timeframe relative to our earlier films, the specific dates of the international releases for these films will depend on territory-specific factors, such as the local competitive environment, cultural events, and school holidays. Therefore, the timing of international revenues could span over several months, and the forecasting of such revenues is inherently more difficult. In addition, the amount of revenue recognized in any given quarter or quarters from all of our films depends on the timing, accuracy, and amount of information we receive from Disney to determine revenues and associated gross profits. Although we obtain from Disney the most current information available to recognize our share of revenue and to determine our film gross profit, Disney may make subsequent revisions to the information that it has provided, which could have a significant impact on us in later periods. For instance, towards the end of the life cycle for a revenue stream, Disney may inform us, and has in the past informed us, of additional distribution costs to those previously forecasted. Such revisions have impacted and may continue to impact our revenue share and our film gross profit. In addition, through information we obtain from other sources, we may make certain judgments and/or assumptions and adjust the information we receive from Disney. For example, we make adjustments to our home video revenues for estimates on return reserves that may differ from those reported by Disney. In determining our home video reserves, we review information which includes Disney’s current return reserves, the historical returns for our previous titles, actual rates of returns, inventory 19 Table of Contents levels in the distribution channel and other business and industry trend information that is available. Disney has provided and may continue to provide us with reserve information that may differ substantially from our historical experience with our previous titles. Unless Disney provides a sufficient rationale as to why the market and sales performance are substantially different for a particular title, we have and may continue to record reserves more consistent with our historical experience. The estimate for return reserves, whether based on historical information or more current information from Disney, is inherently subjective and may differ significantly from actual results. Our original estimates on reserves may be revised in future periods as new and additional information becomes available. We have utilized margin normalization, such as with merchandise or home video expenses, in accordance with the provisions of SOP 00-2. This may result in the utilization of budgeted or forecasted information to calculate an ultimate lifetime expense margin, rather than actual costs incurred if it is deemed to be a more accurate reflection of our participation. Similar to return reserves, these expense estimates are reviewed and may be adjusted periodically to ensure the most accurate depiction of our participation is reflected. Any revisions to our estimated reserves, margin normalization or updated information from Disney, as noted above, as well as findings from audit rights offered in accordance with the terms of the Co-Production Agreement, could have a material effect on our financial statements in any given quarter or quarters. For further details, refer to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 of this Form 10-K. With respect to capitalized film production costs, our policy is to amortize these costs over the expected revenue streams as we recognize revenues from the associated films. The amount of film costs that will be amortized each quarter depends on how much future revenue we expect to receive from each film. Unamortized film production costs are reviewed for indicators of impairment each reporting period on a film-by-film basis. If estimated remaining gross revenues are not sufficient to recover the unamortized film production costs, the unamortized film production costs will be written down to net realizable value. In any given quarter, if we lower our previous forecast with respect to total anticipated revenue from any individual feature film, we would be required to accelerate amortization of related film costs, resulting in lower gross margins. Such lower gross margins would adversely impact our business, operating results, and financial condition. Forecasting our operating expenses is extremely difficult. Our operating expenses will continue to be extremely difficult to forecast. We budget the direct costs of the Pictures with Disney and share such costs equally (except with respect to Ratatouille). We capitalize our share of direct costs of film production in accordance with SOP 00-2. A substantial portion of all of our other costs is incurred for the benefit of feature films (“Overhead”), including research and development expenses and general and administrative expenses. Portions of our Overhead are included in the budgets for the Pictures under the Co-Production Agreement, and we share such costs equally with Disney under the Co-Production Agreement (except with respect to Ratatouille). With respect to the portion of our Overhead that is not reimbursed by Disney, we either (1) capitalize such portion as film production costs, if required under SOP 00-2 or (2) charge it to operating expense in the period incurred. A substantial portion of our Overhead is related to the Pictures produced pursuant to the Co-Production Agreement (except with respect to Ratatouille), and is therefore reimbursed by Disney. Since we capitalize other amounts in accordance with SOP 00-2, our reported operating expenses for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 have not reflected, and future reported operating expenses will not reflect, our true level of spending on the production of animated feature films, related products and Overhead. Further, as we continue production of our films beyond the Co-Production Agreement, including Ratatouille, the production costs of which we are financing in full, we expect our operating expenses to continue to increase to the extent that they are not capitalized or shared with Disney. Film production budgets may increase, and film production spending may exceed such budgets. Our future film budgets may continue to increase due to factors including, but not limited to, (1) escalation in compensation rates of people required to work on our current projects, (2) number of personnel required to 20 Table of Contents work on our current projects, (3) equipment needs, (4) the enhancement of existing, or the development of new, proprietary technology and (5) the expansion of our facilities to accommodate the growth of the studio. The budgets for Cars and subsequent films and related products are expected to be greater than the budgets for our previous films. Under the Co-Production Agreement, we will continue to finance the budget for Cars equally with Disney. However, pursuant to the Distribution Letter Agreement, we will finance all production costs of Ratatouille. Due to production exigencies, which are often difficult to predict, it is not uncommon for film production spending to exceed film production budgets, and our current projects may not be completed within the budgeted amounts. In addition, when production of each film is completed, we may incur significant carrying costs associated with transitioning personnel on creative and development teams from one project to another. These carrying costs increase overall production budgets and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Software revenue. Our fiscal year 2006 earnings are expected to include revenues attributable to non-film related sources including software revenue; however, there can be no assurance as to the timing and amount of such revenues. Other items affecting forecasting. Our fiscal year 2006 earnings are expected to include other income and expenses such as interest income and tax expense. Interest income is difficult to predict and can fluctuate depending on our cash, cash equivalents and investment balances as well as external factors beyond our control, such as economic conditions and interest rates available to us during the year. We calculate our current and deferred tax provision based on estimates and assumptions that could differ from the actual results reflected in income tax returns filed during the subsequent year. Adjustments based on filed returns are generally recorded in the period when the tax returns are filed and the tax implications are known. Our income tax rate for fiscal year 2005 was different from the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to state taxes, a tax benefit associated with certain income earned outside the United States, a tax deduction related to income attributable to domestic production activities, and certain tax exempt investment income. Our effective tax rate may fluctuate in future periods. Changes in accounting pronouncements may also have a significant effect on our results of operations. For example, in December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123—Revised 2004 (“SFAS 123R”), “Share-Based Payment,” which replaces Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (“SFAS 123”), “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,” and supersedes Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25 (“APB 25”), “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.” SFAS 123R requires the measurement of all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, using a fair-value-based method and the recording of such compensation expense in our statements of income. We will adopt SFAS 123R in the first quarter of fiscal year 2006. The pro forma disclosures, previously permitted under SFAS 123 and adopted by Pixar, no longer will be an alternative to financial statement recognition. Although we have not yet determined whether the adoption of SFAS 123R will result in amounts that are similar to the current pro forma disclosures under SFAS 123, we expect the adoption to increase our cost of revenues and operating expenses, and the adoption of SFAS 123R could make our net income less predictable in any given reporting period, could change the way we compensate our employees, or may cause other changes in the way we conduct our business. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past, and we expect such fluctuations to continue. Our revenues fluctuate significantly. We continue to expect significant fluctuations in our future quarterly and annual revenues because of a variety of factors, including the following: • the timing of worldwide theatrical releases of our animated feature films, • the success of our animated feature films, 21 Table of Contents • the timing of the release of related products into their respective markets, such as home videos, television, and merchandising, • the demand for such related products, which is often a function of the success of the related animated feature film, • Disney’s costs to distribute and promote our feature films and related products under the Co-Production Agreement, • Disney’s success at marketing our feature films and related products under the Co-Production Agreement, • the timing and accuracy of information received from Disney and other sources on which we base estimates of revenue to be recognized from our animated feature films and related products, • the timing and amount of non-film related revenues, such as the licensing of our software, • the competitive environment, and • external socioeconomic and political events that are beyond our control. In particular, since our revenue under the Co-Production Agreement and the Distribution Letter Agreement is directly related to the success of our animated feature films, our operating results are likely to fluctuate depending on the level of success of our animated feature films and related products. The revenues derived from the production and distribution of an animated feature film depend primarily on the film’s acceptance by the public, which cannot be predicted and does not necessarily bear a direct correlation to the production or distribution costs incurred. The commercial success of a motion picture also depends upon promotion and marketing, production costs and other factors. Further, the theatrical success of a feature film can be a significant factor in determining the amount of revenues generated from the sale of the related products. Our operating expenses fluctuate. We expect continuing increases to our operating expenses to fund greater levels of research and development, to meet the demands of multiple films in production and to expand operations. In addition, we expect our spending levels may increase significantly due to the following: • continued investment in proprietary software systems, • continued and potentially increasing competition costs for creative, technical and administrative talent, • increased costs associated with the expansion of our facilities, • increased number of personnel required to support studio growth as we have multiple films in parallel production, • increased investment in creative development and our Pixar-only financed films, • increased proportion of operating expenses previously shared with Disney, and • increased investment in administrative functions to support our expanding operations. A portion of our operating expenses that are allocable to film productions is either capitalized by us or reimbursed by Disney under the Co-Production Agreement. To the extent that we do not capitalize (or Disney does not reimburse) the increases in expenses, our operating expenses will increase in fiscal year 2006. In addition, as we increase the resources allocated to Ratatouille and our other future productions, we expect our operating expenses to increase significantly. Our scheduled successive releases of feature films will continue to place a significant strain on our resources. We have only produced and released six feature films to date and have limited experience with respect to producing more than one animated feature film at a time. Due to the strain on our personnel from the effort 22 Table of Contents required for the release of an upcoming film and the time required for creative development of future films, it is possible that we would be unable to release a new film in successive years. In the past, we have been required, and may continue to be required, to expand our employee base, increase capital expenditures and procure additional resources and facilities in order to accomplish the scheduled releases of our animated feature films. This growth and expansion has placed, and continues to place, a significant strain on our resources. We cannot provide any assurances that any future animated film will be released as scheduled or that this strain on resources will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, John Lasseter’s availability has been a key contribution to the successful completion of our prior films. As we move towards releasing one film a year, there has been and will continue to be additional demands placed on his availability. In addition to Mr. Lasseter’s role as our Executive Vice President—Creative, he is also the director of Cars, our next feature film. A lack of his availability may adversely impact the success and timing of our future films. We continuously implement a variety of new and upgraded operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, including improvement and maintenance of our accounting system, other internal management systems and backup systems. Our growth and these diversification activities, along with the corresponding increase in the number of our employees and our rapidly increasing costs, have resulted in increased responsibilities for our management team. We will need to continue to improve our operational, financial and management information systems, to hire, train, motivate and manage our employees, to integrate them into Pixar and to provide adequate facilities and other resources for them. We cannot provide any assurance we will be successful in accomplishing all of these activities on a timely and cost-effective basis. Any failure to accomplish one or more of these activities on a timely and cost-effective basis would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Co-Production Agreement imposes several risks and restrictions on us. In 1997, Pixar and Disney entered into the Co-Production Agreement, pursuant to which Pixar agreed to produce the Pictures on an exclusive basis for distribution by Disney. This agreement generally provides that Pixar will be responsible for the development, pre-production and production of each Picture, while Disney will be responsible for the marketing, promotion, publicity, advertising and distribution of each Picture. On January 27, 2006, Pixar and Disney entered into a Distribution Letter Agreement regarding the distribution of an additional feature length animated film currently entitled Ratatouille. This agreement generally provides that Ratatouille will be deemed a “Picture” under and in accordance with the terms of the Co-Production Agreement, subject to certain exceptions discussed above in “Business—Relationship with Disney.” Pursuant to the Distribution Letter Agreement, the term of the Co-Production Agreement is extended until the delivery of Ratatouille to Disney, which is expected to occur in mid-2007. We are dependent on Disney for the distribution and promotion of our feature films and related products. The decisions regarding the timing of the theatrical release and related products, the marketing and distribution strategy, and the extent of promotional support are important factors in determining the success of our motion pictures and related products. Under the terms of the Co-Production Agreement and Distribution Letter Agreement, Disney is required to market and distribute our films in the same manner as its premiere animated films, and Disney is required to consult with us with respect to all major marketing and distribution decisions. While Disney is prohibited from distributing potential competing films within certain release collars, we ultimately do not control (1) the manner in which Disney distributes our animated feature films and related products, (2) the number of theaters to which Disney distributes our feature films, (3) the specific timing of release of our feature films and related products or (4) the specific amount or quality of marketing and promotional support of the feature films and related products as well as the associated promotional and marketing budgets. Because Disney co-finances the films developed and produced under the Co-Production Agreement (except for Ratatouille, which we are solely financing under the Distribution Letter Agreement), distributes the films under the “Walt Disney Pictures” label and enjoys substantial financial benefits in the event that such films achieve significant box office revenues, we believe that Disney desires such films to be successful. Nonetheless, 23 Table of Contents Disney could make certain decisions as to marketing, distribution or promotion of the animated feature films or related products or the marketing and promotion of its own animated or other family films that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. In addition, the costs for marketing, distribution and promotion of the films and related products are incurred well in advance of the release of such films and products, and we experience a delay in the receipt of proceeds from such films and products until after Disney recovers such costs. We are also dependent on Disney for receiving accurate information on a timely basis on which we base estimates to recognize revenue and associated gross profit from the animated feature films and related products. If we fail to receive accurate information from Disney, or fail to receive it on a timely basis, it could have a significant adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Disney has an exclusive arrangement with us. We have agreed not to release or authorize the release of any of our feature length animated theatrical motion pictures, other than the Pictures, until twelve months from our delivery of Ratatouille, which is currently scheduled for summer 2007. We also agreed not to develop or produce any rides or attractions for major theme parks not owned or operated by Disney. Except for Ratatouille, we have agreed to give Disney a right to negotiate with respect to animated television productions or animated made-for-home video productions that we propose to produce during the term of the Co-Production Agreement. Disney, however, is not similarly restricted by the exclusivity provisions that bind us under the Co-Production Agreement and, therefore, may develop, produce or distribute other feature length animated and theatrical motion pictures itself or enter into similar agreements with third parties. However, if Disney produces any derivative works of the Pictures (except for Ratatouille) without us, we are entitled to receive passive royalties pursuant to the terms of the Co-Production Agreement. See “Business — Competition,” and “Risk Factors — We experience intense competition with respect to our animated feature films, animation products, and software.” We have an obligation to finance production costs. We co-financed the first four films under the Co-Production Agreement, as well as Toy Story 2, and we will continue to co-finance Cars and may co-finance or fully finance other related products to be developed and produced pursuant to the Co-Production Agreement. For example, we have, in the past, elected to participate actively in various interactive games with Disney where we fund half of the development costs of the games. We also have approved for production and have begun financing Pixar-only financed films, including Ratatouille. If our feature films and related products do not generate proceeds sufficient to more than offset our share of their production costs, our business, operating results and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. Disney retains the exclusive distribution and exploitation rights. Disney retains the exclusive distribution and exploitation rights of each Picture, all characters and story elements of each Picture and all related products we develop under the Co-Production Agreement (except for Ratatouille which is subject to the terms and conditions of the Distribution Letter Agreement). Accordingly, except in certain specified circumstances, we are not able to exploit or distribute any of our feature films or characters or elements of any of our feature films or related products developed under the Co-Production Agreement without a license from Disney. We cannot provide any assurances that such a license would be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Disney can terminate the agreement under various circumstances. Under the terms of the Co-Production Agreement, Disney may terminate the agreement under certain circumstances. For example, Disney is entitled to terminate the Co-Production Agreement in the event that certain types of competitors directly or indirectly acquire or control a 50% or greater ownership interest in Pixar or Pixar merges or consolidates into such a competitor. Disney would not lose any of its rights to distribute and 24 Table of Contents exploit all feature films and all characters and elements of our feature films and other products we develop under the Co-Production Agreement. Further, in the event that Disney terminates the Co-Production Agreement, we would be required to seek alternative channels for distribution of our animated feature films and related products. See “Business — Relationship with Disney.” There are significant risks associated with the motion picture industry. The completion and commercial success of a motion picture is extremely unpredictable, and the motion picture industry involves a substantial degree of risk. Each motion picture is an individual artistic work, and its commercial success is primarily determined by audience reaction, which is unpredictable. The completion and commercial success of a motion picture also depends upon other factors, such as: • talent and crew availability, • financing requirements, • distribution strategy, including the time of the year and the number of screens on which it is shown, • the number, quality and acceptance of other competing films released into the marketplace at or near the same time, • critical reviews, • the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, • piracy and unauthorized recording, transmission and distribution of motion pictures, • general socioeconomic conditions and political events, • weather conditions, and • other tangible and intangible factors. All of these factors can change and cannot be predicted with certainty. In addition, motion picture attendance is seasonal, with the greatest attendance typically occurring during the summer and holidays. The release of a film during a period of relatively low theater attendance is likely to affect the film’s box office receipts adversely. Under the terms of the Co-Production Agreement, Pixar is guaranteed theatrical release either during the summer or holiday period. In addition, due to the expected release of a large number of family films by Disney and other movie studios in the next several years, it is possible that further saturation of the family film market, particularly computer graphics imagery (“CGI”) animated films, may adversely impact the commercial success of our films, and therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See “Business — Competition.” Motion picture piracy, which may intensify, could decrease the revenue we receive from the exploitation of our films. Piracy and the unauthorized recording, transmission and distribution of our content are increasing challenges. Motion picture piracy is already prevalent outside of the United States, Canada and Western Europe and in countries where we may have difficulty enforcing our intellectual property rights. Technological advances, such as the digital distribution of motion pictures, could increase the prevalence of piracy, including in the United States, because such advances simplify the creation, transmission and sharing of high quality unauthorized copies of motion pictures in theatrical release, on videotapes and DVDs, from pay-per-view through set top boxes and other devices and through unlicensed broadcasts on free TV and the Internet. The proliferation of unauthorized copies of our products could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and decrease the revenue we receive from our legitimate products. Motion picture trade associations such as the Motion Picture Association of America monitor the progress and efforts made by various countries to limit or prevent piracy. Some of these trade associations have initiated voluntary embargoes on motion picture exports to certain countries in the past to exert pressure on the 25 Table of Contents governments of those countries to become more aggressive in preventing motion picture piracy. In addition, the U.S. government has publicly considered implementing trade sanctions against specific countries that, in its opinion, do not make appropriate efforts to prevent copyright infringements of U.S. produced motion pictures. There can be no assurance, however, that voluntary industry embargoes or U.S. government trade sanctions will be enacted or, if enacted, effective. If enacted, such actions could impact the amount of revenue that we realize from the international exploitation of motion pictures depending upon the countries subject to such action and the duration and effectiveness of such action. If embargoes or sanctions are not enacted or if other measures are not taken, we may lose an indeterminate amount of additional revenue as a result of motion picture piracy. In order for our feature films and related products to be successful, we must develop appealing creative content. The success of each animated feature film developed and produced by us depends in large part upon our ability to develop and produce compelling stories and characters that will appeal to a broad audience. Traditionally, this process has been extremely difficult. While we have enjoyed worldwide box office success with all of our feature films, there can be no assurance that similar levels of success will be achieved by our subsequent films, including Cars, Ratatouille and our other future projects. We experience intense competition with respect to our animated feature films, animation products, and software. Animated Feature Films. Our animated feature films compete and will continue to compete with family-oriented, animated and live action feature films and other family-oriented entertainment products produced by major movie studios, including Disney (as somewhat limited by the Co-Production Agreement), DreamWorks Animation SKG, Inc. (“DreamWorks”), Warner Bros. Entertainment (“Warner Bros.”), Sony Pictures Entertainment, Fox Entertainment Group Inc. (“Fox”), Paramount Pictures, Lucasfilm Ltd., Universal Studios, Inc., MGM/UA, and Studio Ghibli as well as numerous other independent motion picture production companies. CGI is now the most prevalent form of animation among feature-length animated films, and the number of CGI-animated films released has been increasing significantly. Several movie studios have developed their own internal computer animation capability, which may be used for special effects in animated films and live action films in addition to creating CGI-animated feature films. For example, DreamWorks successfully produced and released Antz in 1998, Shrek in 2001, Shrek 2 and Shark Tale in 2004, and Madagascar in May 2005. Fox, through its subsidiary Blue Sky, successfully produced Ice Age, which was released in March 2002, and Robots, which was released in March 2005. Warner Bros. released The Polar Express in November 2004. Disney domestically distributed Valiant, a co-production with Vanguard Entertainment, in August 2005, and released Chicken Little, the first film produced by Disney’s new CGI feature animation department, in November 2005. Other movie studios may internally develop, license or sub-contract three-dimensional animation capability, or enter into co-production agreements with other studios capable of developing and producing three-dimensional CGI-animated films. Further, we believe that continuing enhancements to commercially available computer hardware and software technology have lowered and will continue to lower barriers to entry for studios or special effects companies which intend to produce computer-animated feature films or other products. We believe competition from animated feature films and family-oriented feature films will likely continue to intensify over the next several years. Primarily CGI-animated feature films currently expected to be released by major studios in 2006 include Ice Age 2, The Wild, Over the Hedge, Monster House, The Ant Bully, Open Season, Barnyard, Flushed Away, Happy Feet, and Meet the Robinsons, among others. Family-oriented feature films currently expected to be released by major studios in 2006 include The Shaggy Dog, Hoot, Garfield 2, Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest, Flicka, Zoom, How to Eat Fried Worms, Santa Clause 3, Eragon, and Charlotte's Web, among others. Due to a potentially large number of CGI-animated feature films and family-oriented films scheduled for release over the next few years, it is possible that the market for these films will become further saturated. 26 Table of Contents Our films will continue to compete with the feature films of other movie studios for optimal release dates, audience acceptance, and exhibition outlets. In addition, we compete and will continue to compete with other movie studios for the services of performing artists, and the services of other creative and technical personnel, particularly in the fields of animation and technical direction. Some of the other movie studios with which we compete have significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. In addition to box office and home video competition, other family-oriented films may continue to compete with The Incredibles and Finding Nemo, and the rest of our film library, with respect to related television, merchandise, and other future revenue sources. The Co-Production Agreement, as modified by the Distribution Letter Agreement provides that we will develop and produce six original computer-animated feature films. Because Disney co-finances the films developed and produced under the Co-Production Agreement (except for Ratatouille, which we are financing in full under the Distribution Letter Agreement), distributes the films under the “Walt Disney Pictures” label and enjoys financial benefits in the event that such films achieve significant box office revenues, we believe that Disney desires such films to be successful. Nonetheless, during its long history, Disney has been a very successful producer and distributor of its own animated feature films. While the Co-Production Agreement imposes restrictions prohibiting Disney and its affiliates from releasing animated films or live action family films within certain release windows from our films, including Ratatouille pursuant to the Distribution Letter Agreement, it is likely that other family-oriented motion pictures distributed by Disney or its affiliates will overlap in the market and compete with our animated feature films. For example, Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl, Spy Kids 3D: Game Over, and Freaky Friday competed directly with Finding Nemo for domestic theatrical market share during summer 2003. The home video releases of Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl and Freaky Friday also competed with Finding Nemo in the worldwide home video market. The theatrical releases of Disney’s National Treasure and Miramax’s Finding Neverland in November 2004 competed with the worldwide theatrical release of The Incredibles, and the home video release of these films competed with The Incredibles in the worldwide home video market. Disney’s release of The Wild on April 14, 2006 and Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man’s Chest on July 7, 2006 will compete with Cars, which is scheduled for release on June 9, 2006. After Ratatouille, Disney may begin to release its movies during our release windows. This could have an adverse impact on the commercial success required for us to profit from future films. Our contractual arrangement with Disney also presents other risks. See “Risk Factors — The Co-Production Agreement imposes several risks and restrictions on us.” Computer Graphics Special Effects Firms. We also expect to compete with computer graphics special effects firms, including Industrial, Light & Magic (“ILM”), Rhythm & Hues, Tippett Studios, WETA Digital, Digital Domain, and Sony Pictures Imageworks. These computer graphics special effects firms may be capable of creating their own three-dimensional computer animated feature films or may produce such films for movie studios that compete with us. For example, ILM has already created and produced three-dimensional character animation which was used for several central characters in live action films such as Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith. ILM has a royalty-free, paid-up license to use our RenderMan® software and to obtain at no cost all enhancements and upgrades thereto. Other computer graphics special effects firms have licensed or may license RenderMan®. Accordingly, our RenderMan® software may not provide us with a competitive advantage. We also compete, or may in the future compete, with the above firms with respect to animation products other than feature films. Software Publishers. We also experience competition with respect to our RenderMan® software product. In particular, we compete with makers of computer graphics imaging software, principally Mental Images GmbH sold as an OEM product through Alias, which was recently acquired by Autodesk, Discreet (a division of Autodesk), and Avid Technologies. In addition to Mental Images products, Autodesk also markets internally developed competing rendering software products at lower prices than the price at which we offer RenderMan®. Under appropriate circumstances, we have in the past elected and might in the future elect to license our rendering technology 27 Table of Contents patents to other companies, some of which may compete with us. In addition, as PC’s become more powerful, software suppliers may also be able to introduce products for PC’s that would be competitive with RenderMan® in terms of price and performance for professional users. In addition, there have been advances in graphics processing unit technology that may impinge on the market for software rendering solutions. Faster and lower cost graphic cards provide capability for users to produce pictures of higher complexity than previously available. We expect competition to persist, intensify and increase in each of our business areas in the future. Some of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger installed customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors. Such competition could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Our success depends on certain key employees. Our success depends to a significant extent on the performance of a number of senior management personnel and other key employees, especially our film directors, producers, animators, creative personnel and technical directors. In particular, we are dependent upon the services of Steve Jobs, John Lasseter, Edwin E. Catmull, Simon Bax, and Lois Scali. We do not currently have “key person” life insurance for any of our employees other than John Lasseter. We do have an employment agreement with Mr. Lasseter, however, such employment agreement does not necessarily assure the services of Mr. Lasseter. Moreover, although it is standard in the motion picture industry to rely on employment agreements as a method of retaining the services of key employees, we have not required our employees, other than Mr. Lasseter, to enter into employment agreements. The loss of the services of any of Messrs. Jobs, Lasseter, Bax, Dr. Catmull, Ms. Scali or of other key employees, especially our film directors, producers, animators, creative personnel and technical directors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. See “Business — Employees” and “Executive Officers of the Company.” Our Chief Executive Officer has divided responsibilities. Pixar’s Chief Executive Officer and Chairman, Steve Jobs, is also Chief Executive Officer at Apple Computer, Inc. Although Mr. Jobs spends time at Pixar and is active in our management, he does not devote his full time and resources to Pixar. To be successful, we need to attract and retain qualified personnel. Our success continues to depend to a significant extent on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train and retain qualified professional, creative, technical and managerial personnel. Competition for the caliber of talent required to make our films, particularly our film directors, producers, animators, creative personnel and technical directors, will continue to intensify as more studios build their in-house CGI-animation or special effects capabilities. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying, attracting, hiring, training and retaining such personnel in the future. If we were unable to hire, assimilate and retain qualified personnel in the future, particularly film directors, producers, animators, creative personnel and technical directors, such inability would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. See “Business — Employees” and “Executive Officers of the Company.” We face various distribution risks with respect to our feature films. Under the Co-Production Agreement, Disney is required to distribute the Pictures in a manner consistent with that of Disney’s premiere animated films. Currently, distribution of our films generally includes (1) worldwide theatrical exhibition, (2) worldwide home video sales, (3) worldwide television licensing, including video-on-demand (VOD), Pay-Per-View, pay television, network, basic cable and syndication, (4) non- theatrical exhibition, such as airlines, schools and armed forces facilities and (5) marketing of other rights of the picture, which may include licensing of merchandise, such as toys, interactive games and soundtrack recordings. 28 Table of Contents Although the Co-Production Agreement provides us with some protection, we cannot provide any assurances that our feature films made under the Co-Production Agreement will be distributed through all of these outlets. See “Business — Business Model and Products.” Although we have enjoyed a tremendously successful track record with all six of our feature films, we cannot provide any assurances that our future films will enjoy the same level of success. Currently, Disney shares the financial risks associated with the production of our films under the Co-Production Agreement (except Ratatouille) by financing 50% of the production costs. In addition, under the Co-Production Agreement, Disney is responsible for financing 100% of the costs related to the marketing and distribution of the films. In the event that a film does not generate sufficient revenues to offset such costs, Pixar is not responsible for any losses Disney incurs. However, because we anticipate financing 100% of the production costs of our future films, we expect to bear all of the financial risks associated with a future film’s production costs. In addition, we cannot provide any assurances that future distribution agreements, if any, will provide us with our current level of risk minimization related to the financing of marketing and distribution expenses. In addition, as additional entrants emerge in the animation marketplace, there may be increased competition for distribution partners. We have a limited operating history. Until 1996, we had generated recurring revenue primarily from the license of our RenderMan® software, amounts we received under software development contracts and fees for animated television commercial development. We expect to generate a substantial majority of our future revenue from the development and production of animated feature films and related products, as we have since 1996. We have, to date, developed, produced and released only six animated feature films. Accordingly, we have a limited operating history in implementing our business model upon which an evaluation of our prospects can be based. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in the early stages of a business enterprise, particularly companies in highly competitive markets. To address these risks, we must, among other things, respond to changes in the competitive environment, continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified persons, and continue to upgrade our technologies. We cannot provide any assurances that we will be successful in addressing such risks. Our current and future commitments may have an adverse impact on our cash balances. We are currently co-financing Cars pursuant to the Co-Production Agreement and solely financing our other feature films including Ratatouille. The future production costs of Cars, Ratatouille and subsequent films, and any future expansion of our studio and headquarters in Emeryville, California, may have an adverse impact on our cash and investment balances. As of December 31, 2005, we had $1.0 billion in cash, cash equivalents and investments. We believe that these funds, along with future cash provided by operating activities, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures, production costs for Cars and Ratatouille, as well as production and development costs for future films and development projects. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Item 7 of this Form 10-K. To date, we have chosen to use our existing cash resources to fund film production costs and construction costs. We may continue to use our cash resources for such expenditures, or may choose to finance such capital expenditures through issuance of additional equity or debt securities, by obtaining a credit facility or by some other financing mechanism. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities would result in additional dilution to our shareholders. Moreover, we cannot provide any assurances that we will be successful in obtaining future financing, or even if such financing is available, that we will obtain it on favorable terms or on terms providing us with sufficient funds to meet our obligations and objectives. We depend on our proprietary technology and computer systems for the timely and successful development of our feature films and related products. We cannot provide any assurances that we will not experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development or production of future animated feature films or other related products. Among other 29 Table of Contents things, because we are dependent upon a large base of software and a large number of computers for the development and production of our animated feature films and related products, an error or defect in the software, a failure in the hardware or a failure of the backup processes could result in a significant delay in one or more productions in process which, in turn, could result in potentially significant delays in the release dates of our feature films or other products. In the past we have experienced minor delays as a result of such matters. Significant delays in production and significant delays in release dates could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Further, because we rely mostly on internally developed software, we would not be able to rely upon assistance from third parties in the event that the software fails. See “Business — Technology.” We face risks relating to the international distribution of our films and related products. Because we have historically derived a significant amount of our revenue from the exploitation of our films in territories outside of the United States, our business may be subject to risks inherent in international trade, many of which are beyond our control. These risks include: • laws and policies affecting trade, investment and taxes, including laws and policies relating to the repatriation of funds and withholding taxes, and changes in these laws; • differing cultural tastes and attitudes, including varied censorship laws; • differing degrees of protection for intellectual property; • financial instability and increased market concentration of buyers in foreign television markets, including in European pay television markets; • the instability of foreign economies and governments; • fluctuating foreign exchange rates; and • war and acts of terrorism. A single shareholder owns a large percentage of our outstanding stock. Our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman, Steve Jobs, beneficially owned approximately 49.8% of our outstanding Common Stock as of February 15, 2006. As a result, Mr. Jobs, acting alone, is virtually able to exercise sole discretion over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of the entire board of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, including an acquisition of Pixar. Such concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of Pixar, impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving Pixar, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of Pixar. Business interruptions could adversely affect our operations. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption by fire, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failure and other events beyond our control. Although we have developed certain plans to respond in the event of a disaster, there can be no assurance that they will be effective in the event of a specific disaster. Our facilities in the State of California have in the past and may in the future be subject to electrical blackouts as a consequence of a shortage of available electrical power. In the event of a short-term power outage, we have installed UPS (uninterrupted power source) equipment to protect our RenderFarm and other sensitive equipment, along with two 1.5 Megawatt backup generators; however, a long-term power outage could disrupt our operations. Prices for electricity have in the past risen dramatically and may increase in the future. An increase in prices would increase our operating costs, which could in turn adversely affect our profitability. We do not carry earthquake insurance for earthquake related losses and although we carry business interruption insurance for other potential losses, there can be no assurance that such insurance will be sufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. Any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 30 Table of Contents Terrorist activities and resulting military and other actions could adversely affect our business. The continued threat of terrorism within the United States and abroad, military action and heightened security measures in response to such threats, as well as other socioeconomic and political events, may cause significant disruption to commerce, including the entertainment industry, throughout the world. For example, the terrorist attacks in New York and Washington, D.C. on September 11, 2001 disrupted commerce throughout the United States and Europe. Such disruption in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Work stoppages could adversely impact our operations. Although none of our employees are represented by a labor union, it is common for film directors, producers, animators and actors at film production companies to belong to a union. There can be no assurance that our employees will not join or form a labor union or that we, for certain purposes, will not be required to become a union signatory. We may be directly or indirectly dependent upon certain union members, and work stoppages or strikes organized by such unions could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If a work stoppage occurs, it could delay the completion of our films and have a material adverse effect on our business operating results or financial condition. To be successful, we will need to continuously enhance our existing proprietary technology and develop new technology. Substantially all of our revenues have been derived, and substantially all of our future revenues are expected to be derived, from the use and license of our proprietary technologies. We expect that we will be required to enhance these technologies and to develop new technologies in order to be successful in our industry and in the licensing of our RenderMan® software. We cannot provide any assurances that we will be successful in enhancing our existing technologies or in developing and utilizing new technologies, or that competitors will not develop technology that is equivalent or superior to our technologies or that makes our technologies obsolete. If we are unable to develop enhancements to our existing technologies or new technologies as required, or if the costs associated with developing those technologies continue to increase, our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. See “Business — Technology” and “Business — Competition.” There are various risks associated with our proprietary rights. Our efforts to protect our proprietary technologies may not succeed. Our success and ability to compete is dependent in part upon our proprietary technology. While we rely on a combination of patents, copyright and trade secret protection, nondisclosure agreements and cross-licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights, we believe that factors such as the technical and creative skills of our personnel are more essential to our success and ability to compete. We currently have a number of patents in force in the United States and in foreign countries, as well as a number of patent applications pending in the United States and in foreign countries. We cannot provide any assurances that patents will issue from any of these pending applications or that, if patents do issue, any claims allowed will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, we cannot provide any assurances that any patents that have been issued to us, or that we may license from third parties, will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that any rights granted thereunder would provide us with any proprietary protection. Failure of the patents to provide protection of our technology may make it easier for our competitors to offer technology equivalent to or superior to our technology. We generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants and vendors, and generally control access to and distribution of our software, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information, products or technology without authorization, or to develop similar or superior technology independently. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult and expensive. In addition, effective copyright, patent and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited 31 Table of Contents in certain foreign countries. We generally rely on “electronically delivered” software licenses that include an electronic acceptance by the purchaser, which may be unenforceable under the laws of certain jurisdictions. We cannot provide any assurances that the steps we take will prevent misappropriation of our technology or that our confidentiality or license agreements will be enforceable. See “Business — Proprietary Rights.” Enforcing our proprietary rights may require litigation. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to protect our patents, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. See “Business — Proprietary Rights.” Others may assert infringement claims against us. One of the risks of the film production business is the possibility of claims that our productions infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties with respect to previously developed films, stories, characters or other entertainment. In addition, our technology and software may be subject to patent, copyright or other intellectual property claims of third parties. We have received, and are likely to receive in the future, claims of infringement of other parties’ proprietary rights. There can be no assurance that infringement or invalidity claims (or claims for indemnification resulting from infringement claims) will not be asserted or prosecuted against us, or that any assertions or prosecutions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Irrespective of the validity or the successful assertion of such claims, we would incur significant costs and diversion of resources with respect to the defense thereof, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If any claims or actions are asserted against us, we may seek to obtain a license under a third party’s intellectual property rights. We cannot provide any assurances, however, that under such circumstances a license would be available on reasonable terms or at all. See “Business — Proprietary Rights.” Third-party technology licenses may not continue to be available to us in the future. We also rely on certain technology that we license from third parties, including software that we integrate and use with our internally developed software. We cannot provide any assurances that these third-party technology licenses will continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. The loss of, or inability to maintain any of these technology licenses could result in delays in feature film releases or product releases until equivalent technology could be identified, licensed and integrated. Any such delays in feature film releases or product releases could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. See “Business — Proprietary Rights.” The market price of our Common Stock has been highly volatile in the past, and we expect such volatility to continue. The market price of our Common Stock is highly volatile and is subject to wide fluctuations in response to a wide variety of factors, including the publication of box office results for our feature films and those of our competitors, fluctuations in our quarterly or annual results of operations, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, announcements made by us, Disney, or our competitors, budget increases, delays in or cancellation of feature film or other product release dates, speculation about the negotiation of terms or conditions of our next distribution arrangement, or socioeconomic, political or other factors. For example, since the beginning of fiscal year 2004 through February 15, 2006, our Common Stock closed as low as $31.21 and as high as $61.30 per share. See “Market for Company’s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities” in Item 5 of this Form 10-K. Moreover, in recent years, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, some of which have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performances of the companies affected. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a 32 Table of Contents company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against such a company. For instance, recently several purported securities class action lawsuits were filed against Pixar. See “Legal Proceedings” in Item 3 of this Form 10-K. As described in “Risk Factors — Our operating results have fluctuated in the past, and we expect such fluctuations to continue,” we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may not be necessarily meaningful. Accordingly, you should not rely on our annual and quarterly results of operations as any indication of future performance. In addition, it is possible that in some future period our operating results will be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors or the guidance we have provided. In such event, the price of our Common Stock may be materially adversely affected. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 of this Form 10-K. While we believe we currently have adequate internal control over financial reporting, we are required to assess our internal control over financial reporting on an annual basis and any future adverse results from such assessment could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, (“Section 404”) and the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC to implement Section 404, we are required to include in our Form 10-K an annual report by our management regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The report includes, among other things, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. Management’s assessment of internal control over financial reporting requires management to make subjective judgments and, because this requirement to provide a management report is relatively new, some of our judgments will be in areas that may be open to interpretation. Therefore our management report may be uniquely difficult to prepare and our auditors, who are required to issue an audit report covering our internal control over financial reporting, may not agree with management’s assessment. While we currently believe our internal control over financial reporting is effective, the effectiveness of our internal controls to future periods is subject to the risk that our controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, and, as a result, the degree of compliance of our internal control over financial reporting with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in any future period (or if our auditors are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which may have an adverse effect on our stock price. We are subject to risks caused by the availability and cost of insurance. Changing conditions in the insurance industry have affected most areas of corporate insurance. These changes have in the past and may in the future result in higher premium costs, higher deductibles and lower insurance coverage limits. Due to these factors, we have elected to self-insure certain risks. For example, we do not carry earthquake insurance due to its high cost. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the SEC that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2005 fiscal year that remained unresolved. 