ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should consider carefully the risk factors discussed below, as well as all other information, as an investment in the Partnership involves a high degree of risk. Any of the risks described below could impair our business, financial condition and operating results, which could result in a partial or total loss of your investment. We are subject to certain risks and hazards due to the nature of the business activities we conduct. The risks discussed below, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, and results of operations, are not the only risks we face. We may experience additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or, as a result of developments occurring in the future, conditions that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. 9 Table of Contents Current economic conditions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Since 2008, economic conditions in the United States have experienced a downturn due to the sequential effects of the sub-prime lending crisis, general credit market crisis, the general unavailability of financing, collateral effects on the finance and banking industries, volatile energy prices, concerns about inflation, slower economic activity, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions, increased unemployment, liquidity concerns and declines in housing prices and house sales. Uncertainty about current economic conditions poses a risk as our customers may reduce or postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material negative effect on the demand for our equipment and services and could lead to increased conservation and the possibility of certain of our customers seeking lower cost providers. Any increase in existing customers seeking lower cost providers and/or increase in our rejection rate of potential accounts because of credit considerations could increase our overall rate of net customer attrition. If adverse economic conditions persist, we could experience an increase in bad debts from financially distressed customers, which would have a negative effect on our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on the continued solvency of our derivative and insurance counterparties. We regularly use derivative instruments such as futures, options, and swap agreements, in order to mitigate our exposure to market risk associated with the purchase of home heating oil for our price-protected customers, physical inventory on hand, inventory in transit and priced purchase commitments. We insure ourself against catastrophic property and other losses with insurance companies. The financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets and the possibility that financial institutions may consolidate or go out of business have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets that may also adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. There could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on our business, including insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays and failure of derivative counterparties and other financial institutions negatively impacting our liquidity and financial condition. If counterparties to our derivative instruments were to fail, our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition could be materially impacted, as we would be obligated to fulfill our operational requirement of purchasing, storing and selling home heating oil, while losing the mitigating benefits of economic hedges with a failed counterparty. If one of our insurance carriers should fail, our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition could be materially impacted, as we would have to fund any catastrophic loss. Currently, we have outstanding derivative instruments with the following counterparties: Cargill, Inc., Key Bank National Association, Bank of America, N.A., JPMorgan Chase Bank, NA, Societe Generale, Newedge USA, LLC, and Wachovia Bank, N.A. (Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.). Our primary insurance carrier is a subsidiary of Chartis, formerly known as American International Group. Our operating results are subject to seasonal fluctuations. Our operating results are subject to seasonal fluctuations since the demand for home heating oil is greater during the first and second fiscal quarter of our fiscal year, which is the peak heating season. The seasonal nature of our business has resulted on average in the last five years in the sale of approximately 30% of our volume of home heating oil in the first fiscal quarter and 50% of our volume in the second fiscal quarter of each fiscal year. As a result, we generally realize net income in our first and second fiscal quarters and net losses during our third and fourth fiscal quarters and we expect that the negative impact of seasonality on our third and fourth fiscal quarter operating results will continue. Since weather conditions may adversely affect the demand for home heating oil, our financial condition is vulnerable to warm winters. Weather conditions in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic regions in which we operate have a significant impact on the demand for home heating oil because our customers depend on this product principally for space heating purposes. As a result, weather conditions may materially adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. During the peak-heating season of October through March, sales of home heating oil historically have represented approximately 80% of our annual home heating oil volume. Actual weather conditions can vary substantially from year to year or from month to month, significantly affecting our financial performance. Furthermore, warmer than normal temperatures in one or more regions in which we operate can significantly decrease the total volume we sell and the gross profit realized and, consequently, our results of operations. For example, in fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2006, temperatures were significantly warmer than normal for the areas in which we sell home heating oil, which adversely affected the amount of net income, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA that we generated during these periods. As of September 30, 2010, approximately 42.6% of our total home heating oil volume was sold to customers in New York State. In fiscal 2002, temperatures in 10 Table of Contents Central Park, New York City were an average of 22.7% warmer than in fiscal 2001 and 18.9% warmer than normal. To partially mitigate the adverse effect of warm weather on our cash flows, we have entered into a weather hedge contract with Renaissance Trading Ltd. under which we will receive a payment of $35,000 per degree-day, when the actual degree-days are less than the 10 year average by 7.5%. The hedge covers the period from November 1, 2010 through March 31, 2011 taken as a whole and has a maximum payout of $12.5 million. However, there can be no assurance that this hedge will be adequate to protect us from adverse effects of weather conditions or that we may be able to obtain similar protection in the future. Our operating results will be adversely affected if we continue to experience significant net attrition in our home heating oil customer base. Our net attrition rate of home heating oil customers for fiscal 2010, 2009, and 2008 was approximately 5.0%, 7.6%, and 4.3%, respectively. Excluding customer gains and losses at the home heating oil operations that we acquired in fiscal 2010, which acquisitions were completed after the fall marketing initiatives, we lost 17,600 accounts (net), or 4.7% of our home heating oil customer base, as the decline in gross customer gains of 10,200 accounts was more than offset by the decline in gross customer losses of 22,800 accounts. This rate represents the net of our annual gross customer losses after gross customer gains. For fiscal 2010, 2009, and 2008 we had gross customer losses of 16.8%, 21.1%, and 19.1%, respectively, which were partially offset by gross customer gains during these periods of 11.9%, 13.5%, and 14.8%, respectively. The gain of a new customer does not fully compensate for the loss of an existing customer because of the expenses incurred during the first year to acquire a new customer. Customer losses are the result of various factors, including but not limited to: • price competition; • customer relocations; • credit worthiness; and • conversions to natural gas. The continuing unprecedented volatility in the price of heating oil has intensified price competition and added to our difficulty in reducing net customer attrition. For additional information about customer attrition, See Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Customer Attrition.” Because of the highly competitive nature of the home heating oil business, we may not be able to retain existing customers or acquire new customers, which would have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. Our home heating oil business is subject to substantial competition. Most of our district locations compete with numerous distributors, primarily on the basis of reliability of service, price and response to customer service needs. Each district location operates in its own competitive environment. We compete with distributors offering a broad range of services and prices, from full-service distributors, like ourselves, to those offering delivery only. Like many companies in the home heating oil business, we provide home heating equipment repair service on a 24-hour-a-day, seven-day-a-week, 52 weeks a year basis. We believe that this tends to build customer loyalty. In some instances homeowners have formed buying cooperatives that seek to purchase fuel oil from distributors at a price lower than individual customers are otherwise able to obtain. We also compete for retail customers with suppliers of alternative energy products, principally natural gas, propane and electricity. Our customer losses to natural gas conversions for fiscal years 2010, 2009, and 2008 were 1.2%, 1.6% and 1.6% respectively, which compares to an approximate 1.0% per annum loss in prior years. If we are unable to compete effectively, we may lose existing customers or fail to acquire new customers, which would have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. If we do not make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, our future growth will be limited. The home heating oil industry is not a growth industry because new housing generally uses natural gas when it is available, and competition has also increased from alternative energy sources. Accordingly, future growth will depend on our ability to make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms. We cannot assure that we will be able to identify attractive acquisition candidates in the home heating oil sector in the future or that we will be able to acquire businesses on economically acceptable terms. Factors that may adversely affect home heating oil operating and financial results may limit our access to capital and adversely affect our ability to make acquisitions. Under the terms of our revolving credit facility, our most restrictive agreement, as long as we maintain certain financial ratios, we are not limited on the number of individual acquisitions or aggregate dollar amount of acquisitions we make in any fiscal year, but we are restricted from making any individual acquisition in excess of $25.0 million without the lenders’ approval. In 11 Table of Contents addition, to make an acquisition, we are required to have Availability (as defined in the revolving credit facility) of $40.0 million, on a historical pro forma and forward-looking basis. This covenant restriction may limit our ability to make acquisitions. Any acquisition may involve potential risks to us and ultimately to our unitholders, including: • an increase in our indebtedness; • an increase in our working capital requirements; • our inability to integrate the operations of the acquired business; • our inability to successfully expand our operations into new territories; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • an excess of customer loss or loss of key employees from the acquired business; and • the assumption of additional liabilities including environmental liabilities. In addition, acquisitions may be dilutive to earnings and distributions to unitholders, and any additional debt incurred to finance acquisitions may among other things, affect our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Our substantial debt and other financial obligations could impair our financial condition and our ability to fulfill our debt obligations. On November 16, 2010, we completed a Rule 144A offering of $125.0 million in aggregate principal amount of senior notes due 2017. The notes will accrue interest at a rate of 8.875% and were priced at 99.350%, for total gross proceeds of $124.2 million. The net proceeds from the offering will be used to redeem on December 20, 2010 any and all of the Partnership’s outstanding 10.25% notes due 2013, which currently equate to approximately $82.5 million. Our substantial indebtedness and other financial obligations could: • impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes; • have a material adverse effect on us if we fail to comply with financial and affirmative and restrictive covenants in our debt agreements and an event of default occurs as a result of a failure that is not cured or waived; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow for interest payments on our indebtedness and other financial obligations, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital and capital expenditures; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have proportionately less debt. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations and other financial obligations, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness and other financial transactions, seek additional equity capital or sell our assets. We might then be unable to obtain such financing or capital or sell our assets on satisfactory terms, if at all. Unitholders may have to report income for Federal income tax purposes on their investment in the Partnership without receiving any cash distributions from us. Star Gas Partners is a master limited partnership. Our unitholders are required to report for Federal income tax purposes their allocable share of our income, gains, losses, deductions and credits, regardless of whether we make cash distributions. We expect that an investor will be allocated taxable income (mostly dividend, interest income and cancellation of indebtedness income) regardless of whether a cash distribution has been paid. Our corporate subsidiary Star Acquisitions, Inc. and its subsidiaries (“Star Acquisitions”) are subject to Federal and State income taxes. See the following risk factor regarding net operating loss availability. If the Partnership elects to be treated as a corporation for Federal and State income tax purposes, such an election may result in adverse tax consequences to unitholders. Currently, our main asset and source of income is our 100% ownership interest in Star Acquisitions, which is the parent company of Petro Holdings, Inc. Our unitholders do not receive any of the tax benefits normally associated with owning units in a publicly traded partnership, as any cash coming from Star Acquisitions to us will generally have been taxed first at a corporate level and then may also be taxable to our unitholders as dividends, reported via annual Forms K-1. The production of the Forms K-1 themselves is an expensive and administratively intensive process. Thus, we have all the administrative issues and costs associated with being a large, publicly traded partnership, but our unitholders do not currently receive any material tax benefits from this structure. 12 Table of Contents To reduce these administrative expenses and to better rationalize our tax reporting structure we are considering making an election sometime in the future to be treated as a corporation for Federal and State income tax purposes. While we would still remain a publicly traded partnership for legal and governance purposes, for income tax purposes our unitholders would be treated as owning stock in a corporation rather than being partners in a partnership. Subsequent to the year of election unitholders would receive Forms 1099-DIV annually for any dividends and would no longer receive K-1’s. In the year of election unitholders would receive both, each form covering part of the year. While there could be negative income tax consequences to our unitholders with this election, we intend to only make this election if we believe that it will have no overall material adverse impact on our unitholders, of which there can be no assurance. Since determining this is a function of projecting taxable earnings, making assumptions regarding the payment of distributions, and trying to determine when, during any particular calendar year, making the election will have the least impact on the most number of unitholders, when or, even if, we will make this election is not determinable at this time. Unitholders are encouraged to consult their tax advisors with respect to these possible outcomes. Increases in wholesale home heating oil prices beyond current levels may have adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increases in wholesale home heating oil prices beyond current levels may have adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including the following: • higher bad debt expense as a result of higher selling prices; • higher interest expense as a result of increased working capital borrowing to finance higher receivables and/or inventory balances; and • reduced liquidity as a result of higher receivables and/or inventory balances as we must fund a portion of any increase in receivables, inventory and hedging costs from our own resources thereby tying up funds that would otherwise be available for other purposes. The volatility in wholesale energy costs may adversely affect our liquidity. Our business requires a significant investment in working capital to finance accounts receivable and inventory during the heating season. Under our revolving credit facility, we may borrow up to $240 million, which increases to $290 million during the peak winter months from December through April of each year (subject to borrowing base limitations) for working capital purposes subject to maintaining availability (as defined in the revolving credit facility) of $43.5 million or a fixed charge coverage ratio of not less than 1.10x. If increases in home heating oil costs cause our working capital requirements to exceed the amounts available under our revolving credit facility or should we fail to maintain the required availability, we would not have sufficient working capital to operate our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We generally use forward swaps with members of our lending group to manage market risk associated with our fixed price and ceiling customers, our physical inventory and fuel we use for our vehicles. These institutions have not required an initial cash margin deposit or any mark to market maintenance margin for these swaps. Any mark to market exposure is reserved against our borrowing base and can thus reduce the amount available to us under our revolving credit facility. The mark to market reserve against our borrowing base for swap derivative instruments with our lending group was $6.2 million as of September 30, 2010 and $4.7 million as of September 30, 2009. For our ceiling price customers and some of our fixed price customers, we purchase call options, which usually require us to pay an up front cash payment. This reduces our liquidity, as we must pay for the option before any sales are made to the customer. We also purchase synthetic call options which require us to pay for these options as they expire. For certain of our supply contracts, we are required to establish the purchase price in advance of receiving the physical product. This occurs at the end of the month and is usually 20 days prior to receipt of the product. We use futures contracts or swaps to “short” the purchase commitment such that the commitment floats with the market. As a result, any upward movement in the market for home heating oil would reduce our liquidity, as we would be required to post additional cash collateral for a futures contract or our availability to borrow under our bank facility would be reduced in the case of a swap. At December 31, 2010, we expect to have approximately 40 million gallons of purchase commitments and physical inventory shorted with a futures contract or swap. Assuming a $1.00 per gallon increase in price, our near term liquidity would be reduced by $40 million. 13 Table of Contents For the majority of our fiscal year, the amount of cash received from customers with a balanced payment plan is greater than actual billings. This amount is reflected on the balance sheet under the caption “customer credit balances.” At September 30, 2010, customer credit balances aggregated $68.8 million. Generally, customer credit balances are at their low point after the end of the heating season and at their peak prior to the beginning of the heating season. At September 30, 2010, we had approximately 146,000 customers, or 38% of our residential customer base, on the balanced payment plan. If home heating oil prices increased and we failed to recalculate the balanced payments to reflect current heating oil prices on a timely basis, our liquidity could also be reduced. Sudden and sharp oil price increases that cannot be passed on to customers may adversely affect our operating results. The retail home heating oil industry is a “margin-based” business in which gross profit depends on the excess of retail sales prices per gallon over supply costs per gallon. Consequently, our profitability is sensitive to changes in the wholesale price of home heating oil caused by changes in supply or other market conditions. These factors are beyond our control and thus, when there are sudden and sharp increases in the wholesale cost of home heating oil, we may not be able to pass on these increases to customers through increased retail sales prices. In an effort to retain existing accounts and attract new customers we may offer discounts, which will impact the net per gallon gross margin realized. A significant portion of our home heating oil volume is sold to price-protected customers (ceiling and fixed) and our gross margins could be adversely affected if we are not able to effectively hedge against fluctuations in the volume and cost of product sold to these customers. A significant portion of our home heating oil volume is sold to individual customers under an arrangement pre-establishing the ceiling sales price or a fixed price of home heating oil over a fixed period. When the customer makes a purchase commitment for the next period we currently purchase option contracts, swaps and futures contracts for a substantial majority of the heating oil that we expect to sell to these price-protected customers. The amount of home heating oil volume that we hedge per price-protected customer is based upon the estimated fuel consumption per average customer, per month. If the actual usage exceeds the amount of the hedged volume on a monthly basis, we could be required to obtain additional volume at unfavorable margins. In addition, should actual usage in any month be less than the hedged volume, (including, for example, as a result of early terminations by fixed price customers) our hedging losses could be greater. Currently, we have elected not to designate our derivative instruments as hedging instruments under FASB ASC 815-10-05 Derivatives and Hedging topic, and the change in fair value of the derivative instruments is recognized in our statement of operations. Therefore, we could experience great volatility in earnings as these currently outstanding derivative contracts are marked to market and non-cash gains or losses are recorded in the statement of operations. We may be adversely affected by the impact of financial reform legislation on derivatives. The U.S. Congress has recently passed comprehensive financial reform legislation that requires regulated banks with derivatives trading units to spin them off and that requires substantially all derivatives be traded through a central clearing house, subject to margin requirements. This legislation could substantially increase our cost in using certain derivatives and could make such derivatives less available, which could subject us to additional risks to the extent we are not able to hedge the risks in another manner. The full impact of this legislation on us cannot be fully determined until the required rules implementing this legislation have been drafted and adopted by the Commodities Futures Trading Commission and the SEC. Significant declines in the wholesale price of home heating oil may cause price-protected customers to renegotiate or terminate their arrangements which may adversely impact our gross profit and net income. When the wholesale price of home heating oil declines significantly after a customer enters into a price protection arrangement with us, some customers elect to renegotiate their arrangement in order to enter into a lower cost pricing plan with us or terminate their arrangement and switch to a competitor. As a result of significant decreases in the price of home heating oil following the summer of 2008, many price protection customers decided to renegotiate their agreements with us in fiscal 2009. It is our policy to bill a termination fee when customers terminate their arrangement with us. It is our belief that approximately 10,000 customers chose another supplier as a result of being billed the termination fee. 14 Table of Contents We are subject to operating and litigation risks that could adversely affect our operating results whether or not covered by insurance. Our operations are subject to all operating hazards and risks normally incidental to handling, storing, transporting and otherwise providing customers with our products. As a result, we may be a defendant in legal proceedings and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. We maintain insurance policies with insurers in amounts and with coverage and deductibles that we believe are reasonable. However, there can be no assurance that this insurance will be adequate to protect us from all material expenses related to potential future claims for remediation costs and personal and property damage or that these levels of insurance will be available in the future at economical prices. Our operations are subject to operational hazards and our insurance reserves may not be adequate to cover actual losses. We self-insure workers’ compensation, automobile and general liability claims up to pre-established limits. In storing and delivering product to our customers, our operations are subject to operational hazards such as natural disasters, adverse weather, accidents, fires, explosions, hazardous materials releases, mechanical failures and other events beyond our control. If any of these events were to occur, we could incur substantial losses because of personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, and pollution or other environmental damage resulting in curtailment or suspension of our related operations. We establish reserves based upon expectations as to what our ultimate liability will be for claims using our historical developmental factors. We evaluate on an annual basis the potential for changes in loss estimates with the support of qualified actuaries. As of September 30, 2010, we had approximately $37.4 million of insurance reserves and had issued $40.2 million in letters of credit for current and future claims. The ultimate settlement of these claims could differ materially from the assumptions used to calculate the reserves, which could have a material effect on our results of operations. Our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by governmental regulation and associated environmental and regulatory costs. The home heating oil business is subject to a wide range of federal and state laws and regulations related to environmental and other matters. Such laws and regulations have become increasingly stringent over time. We may experience increased costs due to stricter pollution control requirements or liabilities resulting from noncompliance with operating or other regulatory permits. New environmental regulations might adversely impact operations, including those relating to underground storage and transportation of home heating oil. In addition, there are environmental risks inherently associated with home heating oil operations, such as the risks of accidental release or spill. We have incurred and continue to incur costs to address soil and groundwater contamination at some of our locations. We cannot be sure that we have identified all such contamination, that we know the full extent of our obligations with respect to contamination of which we are aware, or that we will not become responsible for additional contamination not yet discovered. It is possible that material costs and liabilities will be incurred, including those relating to claims for damages to property and persons. In addition, our results of operations and ability to issue distributions may be negatively impacted by significant changes in Federal and State tax law. Proposed legislation concerning the regulation of greenhouse gases and other issues that impact our operations could, if adopted, increase our costs and/or require changes to our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. There is increasing attention in the United States and worldwide concerning the issue of climate change and the effect of emissions of greenhouse gases, in particular from the combustion of fossil fuels. There are efforts by Congress and the EPA to develop new federal laws and regulations that could lead to the adoption of a mandatory program to reduce greenhouse gas emissions through, for example, an economy-wide cap-and-trade program, a carbon tax or a combination of both. Debate continues on the direction, scope and timing of U.S. policy on the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions. It is probable that any regulatory program that caps emissions or imposes a carbon tax will increase costs for us and our customers which could lead to increased conservation or customers seeking lower cost alternatives. However, at this time an estimate of such costs to comply with, or impacts on our business of, potential national, regional or state greenhouse gas emissions reduction legislation, regulations or initiatives is not possible because these programs and proposals are in the early stages of development and any final program, if adopted, could vary from current proposals. 15 Table of Contents Furthermore, laws and regulations that affect our operations continue to evolve at both the state and federal levels, which may ultimately increase our compliance costs. Changes in regulations under different political administrations, the imposition of additional regulations, or the enactment of new legislation that impacts employment, labor, trade, transportation or logistics, health care, tax or environmental issues could have the potential of materially impacting our financial condition or results of operations. (See also the risks discussed above under the heading “We may be adversely affected by the impact of financial reform legislation on derivatives.”) We will continue to monitor and evaluate federal, regional or state programs and proposals and judicial and administrative decisions that could affect our customers or operations. Energy efficiency and new technology may reduce the demand for our products and adversely affect our operating results. Increased conservation and technological advances, including installation of improved insulation and the development of more efficient furnaces and other heating devices, have adversely affected the demand for our products by retail customers. Future conservation measures or technological advances in heating, conservation, energy generation or other devices might reduce demand and adversely affect our operating results. Conflicts of interest have arisen and could arise in the future as a result of relationships between the general partner and its affiliates on the one hand, and us and our limited partners and noteholders, on the other hand. Conflicts of interest have arisen and could arise in the future as a result of relationships between the general partner and its affiliates, on the one hand, and us or any of our limited partners and noteholders, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts the general partner may favor its own interests and those of its affiliates over the interests of the unitholders and noteholders. The nature of these conflicts is ongoing and includes the following considerations: • The general partner’s affiliates are not prohibited from engaging in other business or activities, including direct competition with us. • The general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures, borrowings and reserves, each of which can impact the amount of cash, if any, available for distribution to unitholders, and available to pay principal and interest on debt. • The general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by the general partner. • The general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel or others to perform services for us. • In some instances the general partner may borrow funds in order to permit the payment of distributions to unitholders. • The general partner may limit its liability and reduce its fiduciary duties, while also restricting the remedies available to unitholders for actions that might, without limitations, constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Unitholders are deemed to have consented to some actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise be deemed a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable state law. • The general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties in addition to the Partnership in resolving conflicts of interest, thereby limiting its fiduciary duty to the unitholders. • The general partner determines whether to issue additional units or other of our securities. • The general partner determines which costs are reimbursable by us. • The general partner is not restricted from causing us to pay the general partner or its affiliates for any services rendered on terms that are fair and reasonable to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf. The risk of global terrorism and political unrest may adversely affect the economy and the price and availability of home heating oil and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Terrorist attacks and political unrest may adversely impact the price and availability of home heating oil, our results of operations, our ability to raise capital and our future growth. The impact that the foregoing may have on the heating oil industry in general, and on our business in particular, is not known at this time. An act of terror could result in disruptions of crude oil supplies and markets, the source of home heating oil, and its facilities could be direct or indirect targets. Terrorist activity may also hinder our ability to transport home heating oil if our normal means of transportation become damaged as a result of an attack. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism could also affect our ability to raise capital. Terrorist activity could likely lead to increased volatility in prices for home heating oil. Insurance carriers are routinely excluding coverage for terrorist activities from their normal policies, but are required to offer such coverage as a result of new federal legislation. We have opted to purchase this coverage with respect to our property and casualty insurance programs. This additional coverage has resulted in additional insurance premiums. 16 Table of Contents The impact of hurricanes and other natural disasters could cause disruptions in supply and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Hurricanes, particularly in the Gulf of Mexico, and other natural disasters may cause disruptions in the supply chains for home heating oil and other products that we sell. Disruptions in supply could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, causing an increase in wholesale prices and a decrease in supply. A change in ownership of Star Gas Partners may result in the limitation of the potential utilization of net operating loss carry forwards by our corporate subsidiary may impact our ability to pay cash distributions. If Star Gas Partners were to experience an “ownership change” under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, its corporate subsidiary, Star Acquisitions (the Parent of Petro) may be materially restricted in the potential utilization of its net operating loss carry forwards to offset future taxable income. A restriction on Star Acquisitions’ ability to use its net operating loss carry forwards to reduce its Federal taxable income would reduce the amount of cash Star Acquisitions has available to make distributions to the Partnership, which would consequently reduce the amount of cash the Partnership has available to make distributions to its unitholders. As of the calendar tax year ended December 31, 2009, Star Acquisitions had a Federal net operating loss carry forward (“NOL”) of approximately $51.7 million. The Federal NOLs, which will expire between 2018 and 2024, are generally available to offset any future taxable income. In general, the Partnership would be deemed to have an “ownership change” under Section 382 if, immediately after any owner shift involving a 5% unitholder or any equity structure shift, the percentage of units of the Partnership owned by one or more 5% unitholders has increased by more than 50% over the lowest percentage of units of the Partnership (or any predecessor entity) owned by such unitholder at any time during the three-year testing period. Cash distributions (if any) are not guaranteed and may fluctuate with performance and reserve requirements. Distributions of available cash by us to unitholders will depend on the amount of cash generated, and distributions may fluctuate based on our performance. The actual amount of cash that is available will depend upon numerous factors, including: • profitability of operations; • required principal and interest payments on debt or debt prepayments; • debt covenants; • margin account requirements; • cost of acquisitions; • issuance of debt and equity securities; • fluctuations in working capital; • capital expenditures; • adjustments in reserves; • prevailing economic conditions; • financial, business and other factors; • increased pension funding requirements; • the amount of our net operating loss carry forwards (as subject to any Section 382 limitation and utilization); and • the amount of cash taxes we have to pay in Federal, State and local corporate income and franchise taxes. Most of these factors are beyond the control of the general partner. The partnership agreement gives the general partner discretion in establishing reserves for the proper conduct of our business, including acquisitions. These reserves will also affect the amount of cash available for distribution. The revolving credit facility and the indenture for the senior notes both impose certain restrictions on our ability to pay distributions to unitholders. The most restrictive covenant is found in the Partnership’s revolving credit facility. Under the terms of our credit facility, the Partnership must have availability of at least $40 million plus a fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.15x to pay the minimum quarterly distribution of $0.0675. Any distribution in excess of the minimum quarterly distribution requires the Partnership to have a fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.25x. (See Note 11-Long-Term Debt and Bank Facility Borrowings) 17 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 