Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in the Company’s common stock involves a number of very significant risks. Because of these risks, only persons able to bear the risk and withstand the loss of their entire investment should invest in the Company’s common stock. Prospective investors should consider the following risk factors before making an investment decision. • The Company’s common stock was delisted from The Nasdaq National Market (“NASDAQ”), which makes it more difficult for shareholders to sell shares of the Company’s common stock. On August 24, 2001, the Nasdaq Stock Market terminated the listing of the Company’s common stock on NASDAQ as a result of the Company’s failure to maintain a $1.00 per share minimum bid price for the Company’s common stock. As a result, the Company’s common stock began trading on the OTC Bulletin Board on August 24, 2001. The OTC is generally considered a less efficient market than NASDAQ. Shareholders are likely to find it more difficult to trade the Company’s common stock on the OTC than on NASDAQ. In order for the Company’s common stock to resume trading on NASDAQ, it must satisfy all of NASDAQ’s requirements for initial listing on NASDAQ, apply for listing and be accepted for listing. The Company does not currently satisfy NASDAQ’s initial listing requirements for either NASDAQ or The Nasdaq SmallCap Market, and the Company is unable to determine whether it will ever be able to satisfy either of those initial listing requirements. • The application of the "penny stock rules" could reduce the liquidity and, therefore, the market price of the Company’s common stock. On March 30, 2007, the last reported sales price of the Company’s common stock was $0.17. Because the trading price of the Company’s common stock is less than $5.00 per share and no longer trades on either NASDAQ or The Nasdaq SmallCap Market, the Company’s common stock comes within the definition of a "penny stock." The “penny stock rules” impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell the Company’s securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors, generally those with assets in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000, or $300,000 together with their spouse. Before a broker-dealer can sell a penny stock, SEC rules require the firm to first approve the customer for the transaction in question and receive from the customer a written agreement to such transaction. The firm must furnish the customer a document describing the risks of investing in penny stocks. The broker-dealer must also advise the customer of the current market quotation, if any, for the penny stock and the compensation the firm and its broker will receive for the trade. Finally, the firm must send monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. These additional burdens imposed on broker-dealers may restrict the ability of broker-dealers to sell the Company’s securities and may affect your ability to resell the Company's common stock. Page -7- • Certain of the Company’s directors are involved with other companies in the retail optical industry, which are in competition with the Company’s Sterling Stores and/or COM Members, and may result in potential conflicts. Dr. Robert Cohen and Dr. Alan Cohen, two of the Company’s directors, are also the principal shareholders and executive officers and directors of Cohen Fashion Optical, Inc. and its affiliate, Real Optical, LLC. Drs. Alan and Robert Cohen are brothers. Cohen Fashion Optical and Real Optical operate and franchise retail optical stores similar to Sterling Stores and COM Members in the States of Connecticut, Florida, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, New Jersey and New York and may, in the future, operate in other states as well. As of the date hereof, many Cohen Fashion Optical stores were located in the same shopping center or mall as, or in close proximity to, certain Sterling Stores and COM Member locations; and, in the future, Cohen Fashion Optical and/or Real Optical may open or franchise additional stores that are located in the same areas as Sterling Stores and/or COM Member locations. These competing businesses could reduce the revenues generated at the Company’s competing Sterling Stores and/or from COM Members. Drs. Robert and Alan Cohen are also the principal members and executive officers of General Vision Services, LLC, or GVS, which operates retail optical stores located in the New York metropolitan area. GVS stores are similar to, and compete with, the Sterling Stores and/or COM Members being operated in the same areas. Furthermore, GVS solicits and administers third party benefit programs, similar to those being administered by the Company, through GVS's network of company-owned and independent retail optical stores. It is possible that additional GVS stores, or other retail optical stores, which provide services under third party benefit plans administered by GVS, may, in the future, be located near one or more of the Company’s Sterling Stores and/or COM Member locations, and may compete directly with such locations. Additionally, the Company, Cohen Fashion Optical and/or GVS jointly participate in certain third party benefit plans and certain Sterling Stores, Cohen Fashion Optical stores and GVS stores participate as providers under third party benefit plans obtained by the Company, Cohen Fashion Optical or GVS and, in all likelihood, will continue to do so in the future. A possible consequence of Drs. Robert and Alan Cohens’ interests in Cohen Fashion Optical, Real Optical, GVS and their respective affiliates is that conflicts of interest may arise when business opportunities, in the Company’s line of business, are presented to them, whether in their capacity as members of the Company’s Board or as shareholders, officers and directors in these other entities. While there can be no assurance as to the manner in which corporate opportunities presented to Drs. Robert and Alan Cohen will be allocated, by them, among the various competing business entities in which they are involved, as a supplement to the common law fiduciary duties to which all directors owe the Company and its shareholders, the Company has adopted a Corporate Code of Ethics (which can be accessed on the Company’s website www.emergingvision.com) to which Drs. Robert and Alan Cohen must adhere, which, in part, establishes guidelines as to how potential conflicts of interest are to be handled. • The Company significantly depends on the ability and experience of certain members of its management, and their departure may prevent or delay the successful execution of the Company’s business plan. The Company relies on the skills of certain members of its senior management team to guide its operations including, but not limited to, Mr. Christopher G. Payan, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, the loss of whom could have an adverse effect on the Company’s operations. The Company currently has an employment agreement with Mr. Payan through November 2009, however, only one other member of senior management has an employment agreement. Accordingly, certain of the Company’s key executives may not continue to work for the Company, which could prevent or delay the successful execution of its business plan and attainment of profitability. • The Company does not control the management of all of the Sterling Stores that operate under its name, nor does it control any of the COM Members, and these stores may be managed by unsuccessful franchisees and COM Members, which would reduce the Company’s revenues from these stores. The Company relies, in substantial part, on franchisees and COM Members for revenues. Since the Company does not control the management of these locations, it is possible that a franchisee/owner may not have the business acumen or financial resources to successfully operate his or her franchised Sterling Store or COM Member location. The Company, together with a substantial number of franchisees, has recently experienced an increase in the sales generated from the operation of Sterling Stores, however it can not guarantee continued increases in the future. If a substantial number of franchisees and/or COM Members experience a future decline in their sales and/or are ultimately not successful, revenues from franchisees and/or COM Members would decrease. Some of the factors that could lead to future decline in sales, include, among others: decreased spending by consumers, due to a weaker economy; increased competition by large discount eyewear chains, which increases the need for franchisees and COM Members to provide more aggressive promotional sales, thus decreasing their profit margins; and the limitations of vision care benefits available under medical and third party benefit plans. Page -8- • Better financed competitors that provide greater levels of advertising obtain favorable discounts from suppliers and offer customers aggressive discount pricing. The Company competes with many types of eyewear providers, which may prevent it from increasing or maintaining market share. The retail optical business is highly competitive and includes chains of retail optical stores, superstores, individual retail outlets and a large number of individual opticians, optometrists and ophthalmologists that provide professional services and dispense prescription eyewear. These competitors may take advantage of prompt payment discount plans, aggressive discounting and price-cutting for customers, and increased advertising. As retailers of prescription eyewear, the Company and its franchisees generally service local markets and, therefore, competition varies substantially from one location or geographic area to another. If the Company is not successful in dealing with competition, the Company will not be able to increase or maintain its customer base or market share. • The Company often offers incentives to its customers, which lower profit margins. At times when major competitors offer significantly lower prices for their products, the Company is required to do the same. Certain of major competitors offer promotional incentives to their customers including free eye exams, "50% Off" on designer frames and "Buy One, Get One Free" eyecare promotions. In response to these promotions, the Company has offered the same or similar incentives to its customers. This practice has resulted in lower profit margins and these competitive promotional incentives may further reduce revenues, gross margins and cash flows. Although the Company believes that Sterling Stores provide quality service and products at competitive prices, several of the large retail optical chains have greater financial resources. Therefore, the Company may not be able to continue to deliver cost efficient products in the event of aggressive pricing by competitors, which would reduce the Company’s profit margins, net income and cash flow. • Laser surgery could eliminate the need for certain eyeglasses and contact lenses. As refractive laser surgery gains market acceptance, the Company may lose revenue from traditional eyewear customers. As traditional eyewear users undergo laser vision correction procedures or other vision correction techniques, the demand for certain contact lenses and eyeglasses will decrease. Due to the fact that the marketing and sale of eyeglasses and contact lenses is a significant part of the Company’s business, a decrease in customer demand for these products could have a material adverse effect on sales of prescription eyewear, as well as those of the Company’s franchisees. • The Company is subject to a variety of state, local and federal regulations that affect the health care industry, which may affect its ability to generate revenues or subject the Company to additional expenses. The regulatory requirements that the Company and its franchisees must satisfy to conduct its businesses, varies from state to state. For example, some states have enacted laws governing the ability of ophthalmologists and optometrists to enter into contracts with business corporations or lay persons, and some states prohibit companies from computing their royalty fees based upon a percentage of the gross revenues generated by optometrists from exam fees. Various federal and state regulations also limit the financial and non-financial terms of agreements with health care providers and, therefore, potential revenues may differ depending upon the nature of the Company’s various health care provider affiliations. • The Company and its franchisees are also subject to the requirements of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”), which governs participation in managed care programs. The Company also must comply with the privacy regulations under HIPAA. In addition, all states have passed laws that govern or affect arrangements with the optometrists who practice in vision centers. Additionally, the Company and its franchisees are also subject to regulations regarding franchise business and in-store laboratory operations, as well as the operation, in California, of VCC, which is regulated by the State of California Department of Managed Health Care. As a franchisor, the Company is subject to various registrations and disclosure requirements imposed by the Federal Trade Commission and by many of the states in which the Company conducts franchising operations. The Federal Occupational Safety and Health Act regulates the Company’s in-store laboratory operations. Although the Company believes that it is in material compliance with all applicable laws and/or regulations, the Company may not be able to sustain compliance if these laws and/or regulations change in the future and, in that event, the Company may have to incur significant expenses to maintain compliance. • If the Company’s subsidiary, VCC, is no longer permitted to employ optometrists, then the revenue generated from its California Sterling Stores would, in all likelihood, decrease materially, thereby decreasing net income and cash flow. A class action was commenced against the Company and VCC alleging that the operation of VCC, which employs licensed optometrists, violates certain provisions of the California Business and Professions Code. Although the Company and VCC prevailed in this case, in such event that VCC would lose its right to employ licensed optometrists in the future, then sales, net income and cash flow would, in all likelihood, decrease. Page -9- The Company may be exposed to significant risk from liability claims if it is unable to obtain insurance, at acceptable costs, to protect the Company against potential liability claims. The provision of professional eyecare services entails an inherent risk of professional malpractice and other similar claims. The Company does not influence or control the practice of optometry by the optometrists that it employs or affiliates with, nor does it have responsibility for their compliance with certain regulatory and other requirements directly applicable to these individual professionals. As a result of the relationship between the Company and its employed or affiliated optometrists, the Company may become subject to professional malpractice actions or claims under various theories relating to the professional services provided by these individuals. The Company may not be able to continue to obtain adequate liability insurance at reasonable rates, in which event, its insurance may not be adequate to cover claims asserted against the Company, thus, potentially decreasing the Company’s future cash position and potentially jeopardizing the Company’s ability to continue operations. • The Company’s operations and success are highly dependent upon health care providers, and the Company may be unable to enter into favorable arrangements with these providers. Certain states prohibit the Company from employing optometrists to render professional services. Accordingly, the success of the Company’s operations as full-service eye care providers depends upon its ability to enter into agreements with these health care providers to render professional services at Sterling Stores and COM Member locations. Due to the increased competition, among large discounters of retail eyewear, to enter into agreements with health care providers and the finite number of available health care providers, the costs of compensating these health care providers has increased materially. The Company, its franchisees and COM Members may not be able to enter into agreements with these health care providers on satisfactory terms, or these agreements may not be profitable, which would reduce the revenues the Company, its franchisees and COM Members could generate from their operations. • Certain events could result in a dilution of your ownership of the Company’s common stock. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had 80,921,672 shares that were reserved for issuance under outstanding warrants, options and senior convertible preferred stock. The exercise and conversion prices, as the case may be, of common stock equivalents range from $0.04 to $8.25 per share. If converted or exercised, these securities will result in a dilution of your percentage ownership of the Company’s common stock. In addition, if the Company acquires new companies through the issuance of common or preferred stock, your percentage of ownership will be further diluted. • The Company’s potential limitation on the use of its net operating loss carry-forwards in accordance with Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, due to certain changes in ownership that have occurred or could occur in the future. Furthermore, in order to limit the potential that future transactions could have a similar effect on the Company’s tax attributes, the Company amended its by-laws to provide the Board of Directors with the ability to void certain transactions in Company securities that may impair or limit the future utilization of its tax attributes, including its net operating loss carry-forwards. However, there can be no assurance that the Company has been, or will in the future be, successful in preventing an event which could materially impair or limit the Company’s utilization of its net operating loss carry-forwards and other tax attributes. • The acquisition of Combine, which conducts business with approximately 900 retail optical stores (COM Members), could create an appearance of conflict amongst the COM Members. COM Members operate retail optical stores similar to Sterling Stores in the states of California, Delaware, Florida, Illinois, Maryland, Massachusetts, Nevada, New Jersey, New York, North Dakota, Pennsylvania, South Dakota, Virginia, West Virginia, Wisconsin, and in the District of Columbia and the Virgin Islands, and may, in the future, operate in other states as well. As of the date hereof, many COM Member locations are in the same shopping center or mall as, or in close proximity to, certain Sterling Stores; and in the future, the Company may open Sterling Stores that are located in the same areas as COM Members. These competing businesses could reduce the revenues generated at, both, the Company’s Sterling Stores and COM Member locations, or could cause COM Members to leave COM because they view COM as the competition. • COM ’s operations and success are highly dependent upon the purchases of eye care products by independent optical retailers (COM Members). If COM Member’s decide to purchase their eye care products through a competing optical purchasing group business or purchase direct from a vendor, then revenues generated from COM would decrease. A decrease in the number of COM members could reduce COM ’s profit margins, net income and cash flow. • COM utilizes certain key vendors to provide its members with a broad spectrum of product purchasing options. If one of these key vendors ceases to do business with COM, or ceases to exist, COM could see a decrease in the amount of product purchased by its members, thus decreasing its revenues and net income. • Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (“SOX”) requires the Company to perform an evaluation of its internal controls over financial reporting. The Company’s compliance with SOX will first be included with the filing of the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007. The rules governing the standards that must be met for Page -10- management to assess the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting are complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards under the rule. The costs associated with such tasks could be significant. Additionally, management may identify material weaknesses or significant control deficiencies which may not be remedied in time to meet the deadline imposed by SEC rules on SOX. If management cannot favorably assess the effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting or the Company’s auditors identify material weaknesses, investor confidence may weaken, and the share price of the Company’s stock may suffer. • The Company relies heavily on computer systems in managing financial results. The Company is subject to damage and interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events and usage by employees. This includes any damage to the systems that allow for electronic payments from the Company’s franchisees and credit card payments from its Sterling Store customers. Any repairs necessary to replace and/or fix these systems could result in a significant expense to the Company. Additionally, certain of the Company’s financial reporting processes are not part of an integrated financial reporting system, which requires additional hours and administrative costs to operate, manage and control these systems. The Company is working to transition most of the processes to an integrated financial reporting system. The conversion of these systems and processes to become SOX compliant could result in a significant expense to the Company and may pose greater risks associated with maintaining internal controls as the systems are integrated. • The Company’s leasing space for a majority of its Sterling Stores could expose it to possible liabilities and losses. The Company’s leases are generally for 10 years. Many of the leases provide for annual increases over the term of the lease in addition to the costs associated with insurance, taxes, repairs, maintenance and utilities. If an existing Sterling Store becomes non-profitable and the Company decides to close the location, the Company may still be required to pay the base rent, taxes and other rental charges for the balance of the lease. • The Company may be unable to service its debt obligations. In connection with the purchase of COM, along with other debt obligations, the Company has approximately $2,367,000 of outstanding debt as of December 31, 2006. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future, it may be unable to make principal or interest payments on such borrowings when they become due and may need to refinance all or a portion of the existing debt, or obtain additional financing. The Company cannot guarantee that such refinancing or financing would be available on favorable terms, or at all. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable 