Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe following important factors could cause our actual business and financial results to differ materially from our current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections. These forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or made elsewhere by management from time to time are subject to important risks, uncertainties and assumptions which are difficult to predict. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties facing us. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that affect many other companies. These risks discussed below are not presented in order of importance or probability of occurrence. Weakened economic conditions and uncertainty could adversely affect our operating results Our overall performance depends in part on worldwide economic conditions. The United States, the European Union and other key international economies have experienced a prolonged downturn as a result of a multitude of factors, including, but not limited to, turmoil in the credit and financial markets, concerns regarding the stability and viability of major financial institutions, declines in gross domestic product, increases in unemployment and volatility in commodity prices and worldwide stock markets, and excessive government debt. The severity and length of time that the downturn in economic and financial market conditions may persist, as well as the timing, strength and sustainability of any recovery, are unknown and are beyond our control. Moreover, any instability in the global economy affects countries in different ways, different times and with varying severity, which makes the impact to our business complex and unpredictable. During such downturns, many customers may delay or reduce technology purchases. Contract negotiations may become more protracted or conditions could result in reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles, pressure on our margins, difficulties in collection of accounts receivable or delayed payments, increased default risks associated with our accounts receivables, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. In addition, continued deterioration of the global credit markets could adversely impact our ability to complete sales of our solutions and services, including maintenance and support renewals. Any of these events, as well as a general weakening of, or declining corporate confidence in, the global economy, or a curtailment in government or corporate spending could delay or decrease our revenues and therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Stress in the global financial system may adversely affect our finances and operations in ways that may be hard to predict or to defend against Recent events in the financial markets have demonstrated that businesses and industries throughout the world are very tightly connected to each other. Thus, financial developments seemingly unrelated to us or to our industry may adversely affect us over the course of time. For example, material increases in LIBOR or other applicable interest rate benchmarks may increase the debt payment costs for our credit facilities. Credit contraction in financial markets may hurt our ability to access credit in the event that we identify an acquisition opportunity or require significant access to credit for other reasons. Similarly, volatility in our stock price due to seemingly unrelated financial developments could hurt our ability to raise capital for the financing of acquisitions or other reasons. Potential price inflation caused by an excess of liquidity in countries where we conduct business may increase the cost we incur to provide our solutions and may reduce profit margins on agreements that govern our provision of products or services to customers over a multi-year period. A reduction in credit, combined with reduced economic activity, may adversely affect businesses and industries that collectively constitute a significant portion of our customer base such as the public sector. As a result, these customers may need to reduce their purchases of our products or services, or we may experience greater difficulty in receiving payment for the products or services that these customers purchase from us. Any of these events, or any other events caused by turmoil in world financial markets, may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. The length of our sales cycle can fluctuate significantly which could result in significant fluctuations in license revenues being recognized from quarter to quarter The decision by a customer to purchase our products often involves a comprehensive implementation process across the customer's network or networks. As a result, licenses of these products may entail a significant commitment of resources by prospective customers, accompanied by the attendant risks and delays frequently associated with significant expenditures and lengthy sales cycle and implementation procedures. Given the significant investment and commitment of resources required by an organization to implement our software, our sales cycle may be longer compared to other companies within our own industry, as well as companies in other industries. Also because of the seasonal fluctuation in customer spending habits, it may 9be difficult for us to budget, forecast and allocate our resources properly. Over the past several fiscal years, we have experienced a lengthening of our sales cycle as customers include more personnel in their decisions and focus on more enterprise-wide licensing arrangements. In the current economic environment it is not uncommon to see reduced information technology spending. It may take several months, or even several quarters, for marketing opportunities to materialize. If a customer's decision to license our software is delayed or if the installation of our products takes longer than originally anticipated, the date on which we may recognize revenues from these licenses would be delayed. Such delays and fluctuations could cause our revenues to be lower than expected in a particular period and we may not be able to adjust our costs quickly enough to offset such lower revenue, potentially negatively impacting our results of operations. Our success depends on our relationships with strategic partners, distributors, and third party service providers and any reduction in the sales efforts by distributors, or cooperative efforts from our partners, or service from third party providers could materially impact our revenues We rely on close cooperation with partners for sales and product development as well as for the optimization of opportunities that arise in our competitive environment. A portion of our license revenues is derived from the licensing of our products through third parties, and also a portion of our service revenue can be impacted by the level of service provided by third party service providers relating to internet, telecommunications and power services. Our success will depend, in part, upon our ability to maintain access to existing channels of distribution and to gain access to new channels if and when they develop. We may not be able to retain a sufficient number of our existing distributors or develop a sufficient number of future distributors. Distributors may also give higher priority to the sale of products other than ours (which could include competitors' products) or may not devote sufficient resources to marketing our products. The performance of third party distributors and third party service providers is largely outside of our control, and we are unable to predict the extent to which these distributors and service providers will be successful in either marketing and licensing our products or providing adequate internet, telecommunication and power service so that disruptions and outages are not experienced by our customers. A reduction in partner cooperation or sales efforts, a decline in the number of distributors, a decision by our distributors to discontinue the sale of our products or a decline or disruption in third party services could cause users and the general public to perceive our software and services as inferior and could materially reduce revenues. If we do not continue to develop new technologically advanced products that successfully integrate with the software products and enhancements used by our customers, future revenues and our operating results may be negatively affected Our success depends upon our ability to design, develop, test, market, license and support new software products and enhancements of current products on a timely basis in response to both competitive threats and marketplace demands. Recent examples of significant trends in the software industry include cloud computing, mobility, social media and software as a service (SaaS). In addition, software products and enhancements must remain compatible with standard platforms and file formats. Often, we must integrate software licensed or acquired from third parties with our proprietary software to create or improve our products. If we are unable to achieve a successful integration with third party software, we may not be successful in developing and marketing our new software products and enhancements. If we are unable to successfully integrate third party software to develop new software products and enhancements to existing products, or to complete products currently under development which we license or acquire from third parties, our operating results will materially suffer. In addition, if the integrated or new products or enhancements do not achieve acceptance by the marketplace, our operating results will materially suffer. Moreover, if new industry standards emerge that we do not anticipate or adapt to, or with rapid technological change occurring, if alternatives to our services and solutions are developed by our competitors, our software products could be rendered obsolete, causing us to lose market share and, as a result, harm our business and operating results, and our ability to compete in the marketplace. If our products and services do not gain market acceptance, our operating results may be negatively affected We intend to pursue our strategy of growing the capabilities of our EIM software offerings through our proprietary research and the development of new product offerings, as well as through acquisitions. In response to customer demand, it is important to our success that we continue: (i) to enhance our products; and (ii) to seek to set the standard for ECM capabilities. The primary market for our software and services is rapidly evolving which means that the level of acceptance of products and services that have been released recently or that are planned for future release by the marketplace is not certain. If the markets for our products and services fail to develop, develop more slowly than expected or become subject to increased competition, our business may suffer. As a result, we may be unable to: (i) successfully market our current products and services, (ii) develop new software products, services and enhancements to current products and services, (iii) complete customer installations on a timely basis, or (iv) complete products and services currently under development. In addition, increased competition could put significant pricing pressures on our products which could negatively impact our margins and profitability. If our products and services are not accepted by our customers or by other businesses in the marketplace, our business and operating results will be materially affected. 10Our investment in our current research and development efforts may not provide a sufficient, timely return The development of EIM software products is a costly, complex and time-consuming process, and the investment in EIM software product development often involves a long wait until a return is achieved on such an investment. We make and will continue to make significant investments in software research and development and related product opportunities. Investments in new technology and processes are inherently speculative. Commercial success depends on many factors, including the degree of innovation of the products developed through our research and development efforts, sufficient support from our strategic partners, and effective distribution and marketing. Accelerated product introductions and short product life cycles require high levels of expenditures for research and development. These expenditures may adversely affect our operating results if they are not offset by revenues increase. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts in order to maintain our competitive position. However, significant revenues from new product and service investments may not be achieved for a number of years, if at all. Moreover, new products and services may not be profitable, and even if they are profitable, operating margins for new products and businesses may not be as high as the margins we have experienced for our current or historical products and services. Product development is a long, expensive and uncertain process, and we may terminate one or more of our development programs. We may determine that certain product candidates or programs do not have sufficient potential to warrant the continued allocation of resources. Accordingly, we may elect to terminate one or more of our programs for such product candidates. If we terminate a product in development in which we have invested significant resources, our prospects may suffer, as we will have expended resources on a project that does not provide a return on our investment and we may have missed the opportunity to have allocated those resources to potentially more productive uses and this may negatively impact our business operating results or financial condition. Failure to protect our intellectual property could harm our ability to compete effectively We are highly dependent on our ability to protect our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as non-disclosure agreements and other contractual provisions to establish and maintain our proprietary rights. We intend to protect our rights vigorously; however, there can be no assurance that these measures will, in all cases, be successful. Enforcement of our intellectual property rights may be difficult, particularly in some countries outside of North America in which we seek to market our products. While U.S. and Canadian copyright laws, international conventions and international treaties may provide meaningful protection against unauthorized duplication of software, the laws of some foreign jurisdictions may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of Canada or the United States. The absence of internationally harmonized intellectual property laws makes it more difficult to ensure consistent protection of our proprietary rights. Software piracy has been, and is expected to be, a persistent problem for the software industry, and piracy of our products represents a loss of revenue to us. Where applicable, certain of our license arrangements have required us to make a limited confidential disclosure of portions of the source code for our products, or to place such source code into escrow for the protection of another party. Despite the precautions we have taken, unauthorized third parties, including our competitors, may be able to: (i) copy certain portions of our products; or (ii) reverse engineer or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Also, our competitors could independently develop technologies that are perceived to be substantially equivalent or superior to our technologies. Our competitive position may be adversely affected by our possible inability to effectively protect our intellectual property. Other companies may claim that we infringe their intellectual property, which could materially increase costs and materially harm our ability to generate future revenues and profits Claims of infringement are becoming increasingly common as the software industry develops and as related legal protections, including patents, are applied to software products. Although we do not believe that our products infringe on the rights of third parties, third parties have and will continue to assert infringement claims against us in the future. Although most of our technology is proprietary in nature, we do include certain third party software in our products. In these cases, this software is licensed from the entity holding the intellectual property rights. Although we believe that we have secured proper licenses for all third-party software that is integrated into our products, third parties may continue to assert infringement claims against us in the future, including the sometimes aggressive and opportunistic actions of non-practicing entities whose business model is to obtain patent-licensing revenues from operating companies, such as us. Any such assertion, regardless of merit, may result in litigation or may require us to obtain a license for the intellectual property rights of third parties. Such licenses may not be available, or they may not be available on reasonable terms. In addition, as we continue to develop products and expand our portfolio using new technology and innovation that may involve requiring the use of the internet, our exposure to threats of infringement may increase. Any infringement claims and related litigation could be time-consuming, disruptive to our ability to generate revenues or enter into new market opportunities and may result in significantly increased costs as a result of our defense against those claims or our attempt to license the intellectual property rights or rework our products to avoid 11infringement of third party rights to ensure they comply with judicial decisions. Typically our agreements with our partners and end-users contain provisions which require us to indemnify them for damages sustained by them as a result of any infringement claims involving our products. Any of the foregoing infringement claims and related litigation could have a significant adverse impact on our business and operating results as well as our ability to generate future revenues and profits. The loss of licenses to use third party software or the lack of support or enhancement of such software could adversely affect our business We currently depend upon a limited number of third-party software products. If such software products were not available, we might experience delays or increased costs in the development of our products. For a limited number of product modules, we rely on software products that we license from third-parties, including software that is integrated with internally developed software and which is used in our products to perform key functions. These third-party software licenses may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, and the related software may not continue to be appropriately supported, maintained, or enhanced by the licensors. The loss by us of the license to use, or the inability by licensors to support, maintain, and enhance any of such software, could result in increased costs or in delays or reductions in product shipments until equivalent software is developed or licensed and integrated with internally developed software. Such increased costs or delays or reductions in product shipments could adversely affect our business. Current and future competitors could have a significant impact on our ability to generate future revenues and profits The markets for our products are intensely competitive, and are subject to rapid technological change and other pressures created by changes in our industry. The convergence of many technologies has resulted in unforeseen competitors arising from companies that were traditionally not viewed as threats to our marketplace. We expect competition to increase and intensify in the future as the pace of technological change and adaptation quickens and as additional companies enter our markets, including those competitors who offer similar solutions as we do, but offer it through a different form of delivery. Numerous releases of competitive products have occurred in recent history and are expected to continue in the future. We may not be able to compete effectively with current competitors and potential entrants into our marketplace. We could lose market share if our current or prospective competitors: (i) introduce new competitive products, (ii) add new functionality to existing products, (iii) acquire competitive products, (iv) reduce prices, or (v) form strategic alliances with other companies. If other businesses were to engage in aggressive pricing policies with respect to competing products, or if the dynamics in our marketplace resulted in increasing bargaining power by the consumers of our products and services, we would need to lower the prices we charge for the products we offer. This could result in lower revenues or reduced margins, either of which may materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Additionally, if prospective consumers choose other methods of EIM delivery, different from that which we offer, our business and operating results could also be materially and adversely affected. Consolidation in the industry, particularly by large, well-capitalized companies, could place pressure on our operating margins which could, in turn, have a material adverse affect on our business Acquisitions by large, well-capitalized technology companies have changed the marketplace for our goods and services by replacing competitors which are comparable in size to our company with companies that have more resources at their disposal to compete with us in the marketplace. In addition, other large corporations with considerable financial resources either have products that compete with the products we offer, or have the ability to encroach on our competitive position within our marketplace. These companies have considerable financial resources, channel influence, and broad geographic reach; thus, they can engage in competition with our products and services on the basis of sale price, marketing, services or support. They also have the ability to introduce items that compete with our maturing products and services. The threat posed by larger competitors and their ability to use their better economies of scale to sell competing products and services at a lower cost may materially reduce the profit margins we earn on the goods and services we provide to the marketplace. Any material reduction in our profit margin may have an adverse material effect on the operations or finances of our business, which could hinder our ability to raise capital in the public markets at opportune times for strategic acquisitions or general operational purposes, which may prevent effective strategic growth, improved economies of scale or put us at a disadvantage to our better capitalized competitors. Acquisitions, investments, joint ventures and other business initiatives may negatively affect our operating results The growth of our company through the successful acquisition and integration of complementary businesses is a critical component of our corporate strategy. Thus, we continue to seek opportunities to acquire or invest in businesses, products and technologies that expand, complement or otherwise relate to our current or future business. We may also consider, from time to time, opportunities to engage in joint ventures or other business collaborations with third parties to address particular market segments. These activities create risks such as: (i) the need to integrate and manage the businesses and products acquired with our own business and products, (ii) additional demands on our resources, systems, procedures and controls, (iii) disruption of our ongoing business, and (iv) diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. Moreover, these transactions 12could involve: (a) substantial investment of funds or financings by issuance of debt or equity securities; (b) substantial investment with respect to technology transfers and operational integration; and (c) the acquisition or disposition of product lines or businesses. Also, such activities could result in one-time charges and expenses and have the potential to either dilute the interests of existing shareholders or result in the issuance of or assumption of debt. Such acquisitions, investments, joint ventures or other business collaborations may involve significant commitments of financial and other resources of our Company. Any such activity may not be successful in generating revenues, income or other returns to us, and the resources committed to such activities will not be available to us for other purposes. Moreover, if we are unable to access capital markets on acceptable terms or at all, we may not be able to consummate acquisitions, or may have to do so on the basis of a less than optimal capital structure. Our inability (i) to take advantage of growth opportunities for our business or for our products, or (ii) to address risks associated with acquisitions or investments in businesses, may negatively affect our operating results. Additionally, any impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets acquired in an acquisition or in an investment, or charges to earnings associated with any acquisition or investment activity, may materially reduce our earnings which, in turn, may have an adverse material effect on the price of our Common Shares. Our acquisition activity may lead to a material increase in the incurrence of debt which may adversely affect our finances We may borrow money to provide the funds necessary to pay for companies we seek to acquire, if we deem such financing activity to be appropriate. The interest costs generated under any such debt obligations may materially increase our interest expense which may materially and adversely affect our profitability as well as the price of our Common Shares. Our ability to pay the interest and repay the principal for the indebtedness we incur as a result of our acquisition activity depends upon our ability to manage our business operations and our financial resources. In addition, the agreements related to such borrowings may contain covenants requiring us to meet certain financial performance targets and operating covenants, and limiting our discretion with respect to certain business matters, such as, among other things, any future payment of dividends, the borrowing of additional amounts and the making of investments. Businesses we acquire may have disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting that are weaker than or otherwise not in conformity with ours We have a history of acquiring complementary businesses of varying size and organizational complexity. Upon consummating an acquisition, we seek to implement our disclosure controls and procedures as well as our internal controls over financial reporting at the acquired company as promptly as possible. Depending upon the nature of the business acquired, the implementation of our disclosure controls and procedures as well as the implementation of our internal controls over financial reporting at an acquired company may be a lengthy process. We conduct due diligence prior to consummating an acquisition; however, such diligence may not identify all material issues and our integration efforts may periodically expose deficiencies in the disclosure controls and procedures as well as in internal controls over financial reporting of an acquired company. If such deficiencies exist, we may not be in a position to comply with our periodic reporting requirements and, as a result, our business and financial condition may be materially harmed. We must continue to manage our internal resources during periods of company growth or our operating results could be adversely affected The EIM market in which we compete continues to evolve at a rapid pace. Moreover, we have grown significantly through acquisitions in the past and expect to continue to review acquisition opportunities as a means of increasing the size and scope of our business. Our growth, coupled with the rapid evolution of our markets, has placed, and will continue to place, significant strains on our administrative and operational resources and increased demands on our internal systems, procedures and controls. Our administrative infrastructure, systems, procedures and controls may not adequately support our operations. In addition, our management may not be able to achieve the rapid, effective execution of the product and business initiatives necessary to successfully implement our operational and competitive strategy. If we are unable to manage growth effectively our operating results will likely suffer which may, in turn, adversely affect our business. If we are not able to attract and retain top employees, our ability to compete may be harmed Our performance is substantially dependent on the performance of our executive officers and key employees. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could significantly harm our business. We do not maintain “key person” life insurance policies on any of our employees. Our success is also highly dependent on our continuing ability to identify, hire, train, retain and motivate highly qualified management, technical, sales and marketing personnel. In particular, the recruitment of top research developers and experienced salespeople remains critical to our success. Competition for such people is intense, substantial and continuous, and we may not be able to attract, integrate or retain highly qualified technical, sales or managerial personnel in the future. In addition, in our effort to attract and retain critical personnel, we may experience increased compensation costs that are not offset by either improved productivity or higher prices for our products or services. 13Our compensation structure may hinder our efforts to attract and retain vital employees A portion of our total compensation program for our executive officers and key personnel includes the award of options to buy our Common Shares. If the market price of our Common Shares performs poorly, such performance may adversely affect our ability to retain or attract critical personnel. In addition, any changes made to our stock option policies, or to any other of our compensation practices, which are made necessary by governmental regulations or competitive pressures could adversely affect our ability to retain and motivate existing personnel and recruit new personnel. For example, any limit to total compensation which may be proscribed by the government or any significant increases in personal income tax levels levied in countries where we have a significant operational presence, may hurt our ability to attract or retain our executive officers or other employees whose efforts are vital to our success. Additionally, payments under our long-term incentive plan (the details of which are described in Item 11 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K) are dependent to a significant extent upon the future performance of our Company both in absolute terms and in comparison to similarly situated companies. Any failure to achieve the targets set under the long-term incentive plan could significantly reduce or eliminate payments made under this plan, which may, in turn, materially and adversely affect our ability to retain the key personnel who are subject to this plan. We may not generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our unfunded pension obligations Through one of our acquisitions, we assumed its unfunded pension plan liabilities. We will be required to use the operating cash flow that we generate in the future to meet these obligations. As a result, our future net pension liability and cost may be materially affected by the discount rate used to measure these pension obligations and by the longevity and actuarial profile of the relevant workforce. A change in the discount rate may result in a significant increase or decrease in the valuation of these pension obligations, and these changes may affect the net periodic pension cost in the year the change is made and in subsequent years. We cannot assure that we will generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy these obligations. Any inability to satisfy these pension obligations may have a material adverse effect on the operational and financial health of our business. Unexpected events may materially harm our ability to align when we incur expenses with when we recognize revenues We incur operating expenses based upon anticipated revenue trends. Since a high percentage of these expenses are relatively fixed, a delay in recognizing revenues from transactions related to these expenses (such a delay may be due to the factors described elsewhere in this risk factor section or it may be due to other factors) could cause significant variations in operating results from quarter to quarter, and such a delay could materially reduce operating income. If these expenses are not subsequently matched by revenues, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may fail to achieve our financial forecasts due to inaccurate sales forecasts or other factors Our revenues and particularly our new software license revenues are difficult to forecast, and, as a result, our quarterly operating results can fluctuate substantially. We use a “pipeline” system, a common industry practice, to forecast sales and trends in our business. By reviewing the status of outstanding sales proposals to our customers and potential customers, we make an estimate as to when a customer will make a purchasing decision involving our products. These estimates are aggregated periodically to make an estimate of our sales pipeline, which we use as a guide to plan our activities and make financial forecasts. Our sales pipeline is only an estimate and may be an unreliable predictor of sales activity, both in a particular quarter and over a longer period of time. Many factors may affect actual sales activity, such as weakened economic conditions, which may cause our customers and potential customers to delay, reduce or cancel IT related purchasing decisions and the tendency of some of our customers to wait until the end of a fiscal period in the hope of obtaining more favourable terms from us. If actual sales activity differs from our pipeline estimate, then we may have planned our activities and budgeted incorrectly and this may adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, for newly acquired companies, we have limited ability to immediately predict how their pipelines will convert into sales or revenues following the acquisition and their conversion rate post-acquisition may be quite different from their historical conversion rate. The restructuring of our operations may adversely affect our business or our finances We often undertake initiatives to restructure or streamline our operations. We may incur costs associated with implementing a restructuring initiative beyond the amount contemplated when we first developed the initiative, and these increased costs may be substantial. As well, such costs would decrease our net income and earnings per share for the periods in which those adjustments are made. We will continue to evaluate our operations, and may propose future restructuring actions as a result of changes in the marketplace, including the exit from less profitable operations or the decision to terminate services which are not valued by our customers. Any failure to successfully execute these initiatives on a timely basis may have a material adverse impact on our operations. Our international operations expose us to business risks that could cause our operating results to suffer 14We intend to continue to make efforts to increase our international operations and anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues. These international operations are subject to certain risks and costs, including the difficulty and expense of administering business and compliance abroad, differences in business practices, compliance with domestic and foreign laws (including without limitation domestic and international import and export laws and regulations), costs related to localizing products for foreign markets, and costs related to translating and distributing products in a timely manner. International operations also tend to be subject to a longer sales and collection cycle. In addition, regulatory limitations regarding the repatriation of earnings may adversely affect the transfer of cash earned from foreign operations. Significant international sales may also expose us to greater risk from political and economic instability, unexpected changes in Canadian, United States or other governmental policies concerning import and export of goods and technology, regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers. Additionally, international earnings may be subject to taxation by more than one jurisdiction, which may materially adversely affect our effective tax rate. Also, international expansion may be difficult, time consuming, and costly. As a result, if revenues from international operations do not offset the expenses of establishing and maintaining foreign operations, our operating results will suffer. Moreover, in any given quarter, a change in foreign exchange rates may adversely affect our revenues, earnings or other financial measures. Our products may contain defects that could harm our reputation, be costly to correct, delay revenues, and expose us to litigation Our products are highly complex and sophisticated and, from time to time, may contain design defects, software errors, hardware failures or other computer system failures that are difficult to detect and correct. Errors may be found in new software products or improvements to existing products after delivery to our customers. If these defects are discovered, we may not be able to successfully correct such errors in a timely manner. In addition, despite the extensive tests we conduct on all our products, we may not be able to fully simulate the environment in which our products will operate and, as a result, we may be unable to adequately detect the design defects or software or hardware errors which may become apparent only after the products are installed in an end-user's network. The occurrence of errors and failures in our products could result in the delay or the denial of market acceptance of our products and alleviating such errors and failures may require us to make significant expenditure of our resources. The errors in or failure of our products could also result in us losing customer transaction documents and other customer files, causing significant customer dissatisfaction and possibly giving rise to claims for monetary damages. The harm to our reputation resulting from product errors and failures may be materially damaging. Since we regularly provide a warranty with our products, the financial impact of fulfilling warranty obligations may be significant in the future. Our agreements with our strategic partners and end-users typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to claims. These agreements regularly contain terms such as the exclusion of all implied warranties and the limitation of the availability of consequential or incidental damages. However, such provisions may not effectively protect us against claims and the attendant liabilities and costs associated with such claims. Although we maintain errors and omissions insurance coverage and comprehensive liability insurance coverage, such coverage may not be adequate to cover all such claims. Accordingly, any such claim could negatively affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Our products rely on the stability of infrastructure software that, if not stable, could negatively impact the effectiveness of our products, resulting in harm to our reputation and business Our developments of Internet and intranet applications depend and will continue to depend on the stability, functionality and scalability of the infrastructure software of the underlying intranet, such as the infrastructure software produced by Hewlett-Packard, Oracle, Microsoft and others. If weaknesses in such infrastructure software exist, we may not be able to correct or compensate for such weaknesses. If we are unable to address weaknesses resulting from problems in the infrastructure software such that our products do not meet customer needs or expectations, our reputation, and consequently, our business may be significantly harmed. Business disruptions, including those related to data security breaches, may adversely affect our operations Our business and operations are highly automated and a disruption or failure of our systems may delay our ability to complete sales and to provide services. A major disaster or other catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or information technology systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations. In addition, if data security is compromised this could materially and adversely affect our future operating results given that we have customers that use our systems to store and exchange large volumes of proprietary and confidential information and the security and reliability of services are significant to these customers and enterprises. Although we do not have a history of data security breaches, nor do we reasonably believe that our data systems will be compromised in the future, if our systems are accessed by unauthorized parties, it could lead to major disruption and loss of customer data which may involve us having to spend material resources on correcting the breach and indemnifying the relevant parties which could have adverse effects on our future operating results. 15Unauthorized disclosures and breaches of security data may adversely affect our operations Many of the jurisdictions in which we operate have laws and regulations relating to data privacy, security and retention of information. We have certain measures to protect our information systems against unauthorized access and disclosure of our confidential information and confidential information belonging to our customers. We have policies and procedures in place dealing with data security and records retention. However, there is no assurance that the security measures we have put in place will be effective in every case. Breaches in security could result in a negative impact for us and for our customers, affecting our business, assets, revenues, brand and reputation and resulting in penalties, fines, litigation and other potential liabilities, in each case depending on the nature of the information disclosed. These risks to our business may increase as we expand the number of web-based products and services we offer and increase the number of countries in which we operate. Our revenues and operating results are likely to fluctuate, which could materially impact the market price of our Common Shares We experience, and we are likely to continue to experience, significant fluctuations in revenues and operating results caused by many factors, including: •Changes in the demand for our products and for the products of our competitors; •The introduction or enhancement of products by us and by our competitors; •Market acceptance of enhancements or products; •Delays in the introduction of products or enhancements by us or by our competitors; •Customer order deferrals in anticipation of upgrades and new products; •Changes in the lengths of sales cycles; •Changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; •Delays in product installation with customers; •Change in the mix of distribution channels through which products are licensed; •Change in the mix of products and services sold; •Change in the mix of international and North American revenues; •Changes in foreign currency exchange rates and LIBOR rates; •Acquisitions and the integration of acquired businesses; •Restructuring charges taken in connection with any completed acquisition or otherwise; •Changes in general economic and business conditions; and •Changes in general political developments, such as international trade policies and policies taken to stimulate or to preserve national economies. A general weakening of the global economy or economic or business uncertainty could cancel or delay customer purchases. A cancellation or deferral of even a small number of licenses or delays in the installation of our products could have a material adverse effect on our operations. As a result of the timing of product introductions and the rapid evolution of our business as well as of the markets we serve, we cannot predict whether patterns or trends experienced in the past will continue. For these reasons, you should not rely upon period-to-period comparisons of our financial results to forecast future performance. Our revenues and operating results may vary significantly and this possible variance could materially reduce the market price of our Common Shares. The volatility of our stock price could lead to losses by shareholders The market price of our Common Shares has been subject to wide fluctuations. Such fluctuations in market price may continue in response to: (i) quarterly and annual variations in operating results; (ii) announcements of technological innovations or new products that are relevant to our industry; (iii) changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; or (iv) other events or factors. In addition, financial markets experience significant price and volume fluctuations that particularly affect the market prices of equity securities of many technology companies. These fluctuations have often resulted from the failure of such companies to meet market expectations in a particular quarter, and thus such fluctuations may or may not be related to the underlying operating performance of such companies. Broad market fluctuations or any failure of our operating results in a particular quarter to meet market expectations may adversely affect the market price of our Common Shares. Occasionally, periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities may lead to the institution of securities class action litigation against a company. Due to the volatility of our stock price, we may be the target of such securities litigation in the future. Such 16legal action could result in substantial costs to defend our interests and a diversion of management's attention and resources, each of which would have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We may become involved in litigation that may materially adversely affect us From time to time in the ordinary course of our business, we may become involved in various legal proceedings, including commercial, product liability, employment, class action and other litigation and claims, as well as governmental and other regulatory investigations and proceedings. Such matters can be time-consuming, divert management's attention and resources and cause us to incur significant expenses. Furthermore, because litigation is inherently unpredictable, the results of any such actions may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Our provision for income taxes and effective income tax rate may vary significantly and may adversely affect our results of operations and cash resources. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. Various internal and external factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects on our future provision for income taxes, income taxes receivable, and our effective income tax rate. These factors include, but are not limited to, changes in tax laws, regulations and/or rates, results of audits by tax authorities, changing interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations, changes in estimates of prior years' items, the impact of transactions we complete, future levels of research and development spending, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, transfer pricing adjustments, changes in the overall mix of income among the different jurisdictions in which we operate, and changes in overall levels of income before taxes. Furthermore, new accounting pronouncements or new interpretations of existing accounting pronouncements (such as those described in note 2 “Significant Accounting Policies” in the “Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements”), and/or any internal restructuring initiatives we may implement from time to time to streamline our operations, can have a material impact on our effective income tax rate. Tax examinations are often complex as tax authorities may disagree with the treatment of items reported by us, the result of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate outcome with respect to the taxes we owe may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements, and this difference may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.