ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in the Partnership involves a high degree of risk. Security holders and Investors should carefully review the following risk factors. Unitholders May Have to Report Income for Federal Income Tax Purposes on Their Investment in the Partnership Without Receiving Any Cash Distributions From Us. Star Gas Partners is a master limited partnership. Our unitholders are required to report for federal income tax purposes their allocable share of our income, gains, losses, deductions and credits, regardless of whether we make cash distributions. We expect that an investor will be allocated taxable income (mostly dividend and interest income) regardless of whether a cash distribution has been paid. Mandatory distributions of available cash by us to unitholders will not commence before February 2009. Our corporate subsidiary Star/Petro Inc. and its subsidiaries (“Star/Petro”) are subject to federal and state income taxes. See the following risk factor regarding net operating loss availability. A change in ownership for Star Gas Partners may result in the limitation of the potential utilization of net operating loss carryforwards by our corporate subsidiary and our ability to pay cash distributions. If Star Gas Partners were to experience an “ownership change” under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, its corporate subsidiary, Star/Petro may be materially restricted in the potential utilization of its net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income. A restriction on Star/Petro’s ability to use its net operating loss carryforwards to reduce its federal taxable income would reduce the amount of cash Star/Petro has available to make distributions to the Partnership, which would consequently reduce the amount of cash the Partnership has available to make distributions to its unitholders. As of the calendar tax year ended December 31, 2006, Star/Petro, Inc., had a federal net operating loss carryforward (“NOL”) of approximately $160.8 million, of which approximately $43.5 million is limited in accordance with Federal income tax law as a result of prior transactions. The NOLs, which will expire between 2018 and 2024, are generally available to offset any future taxable income. In general, the Partnership would be deemed to have an “ownership change” under Section 382 if, immediately after any owner shift involving a 5% unitholder or any equity structure shift, the percentage of units of the Partnership owned by one or more 5% unitholder has increased by more than 50% over the lowest percentage of units of the Partnership (or any predecessor entity) owned by such unitholder at any time during the three-year testing period. 8 Table of Contents The high wholesale energy costs may adversely affect our liquidity. Our business requires a significant investment in working capital to finance accounts receivable and inventory during the heating season. Under our revolving credit facility, as amended, we may borrow up to $260 million, which increases to $360 million during the peak winter months from December through April of each year, (subject to borrowing base limitations and a coverage ratio) for working capital purposes subject to maintaining availability (as defined in the credit agreement) of $25 million or a fixed charge coverage ratio of not less than 1.1 to 1.0. If our credit requirements should exceed the amounts available under our revolving credit facility or should we fail to maintain the required availability, we would not have sufficient working capital to operate our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, we utilize futures contracts for our price fixed customers to manage market risk related to changes in the current and future market price of home heating oil. To a certain extent, availability must be set aside to respond to the volatile home heating oil markets. Futures contracts are marked to market on a daily basis and require an initial cash margin deposit and potentially require a daily adjustment to such cash deposit (maintenance margin). For example, assuming 100 million gallons are hedged with a futures contract, a 30-cent per gallon decline in the market value of these derivative instruments (as we experienced from time-to-time) would create an additional cash margin requirement of approximately $30 million. In this example, availability in the short-term is reduced, as we fund the margin call. This availability reduction should be temporary, as we should be able to purchase product at a later date for 30 cents a gallon less than the anticipated strike price when the agreement with the price-protected customer was entered into. A spike in wholesale heating oil prices could also reduce availability, as we must finance a portion of our inventory and accounts receivable with internally generated cash, as the net advance for eligible accounts receivable is 85% and from 40% to 80% of eligible inventory. Generally, we are required to either prepay or issue letters of credit for inventory purchases, which impacts our liquidity. We also utilize forward swaps for our fixed price customers with members of our bank group to manage market risk rather than purchase futures contracts. These institutions have not required an initial cash margin deposit or any mark to market maintenance margin for these swaps. Any mark to market exposure is reserved against our borrowing base and can thus reduce the amount available to us under our revolving credit facility. For our ceiling customers, we purchase call options, which require an upfront cash payment. This reduces our liquidity, as we must pay for the option before any sales are made to the customer. For certain of our supply contracts, we are required to establish the purchase price in advance of receiving the physical product. This occurs at the end of the month and is usually no more than 20 days prior to receipt of the product. We use futures contracts or swaps to “short” the purchase commitment such that the commitment floats with the market. As a result, any upward movement in the market for home heating oil would reduce our liquidity, as we would be required to post additional cash collateral for a futures contract or our availability to borrow under our bank facility would be reduced in the case of a swap. We also short the majority of our physical product and priced purchase commitments with either a futures contract or a swap. At December 31, 2007, we expect to have 73 million gallons of purchase commitments and physical inventory shorted with a futures contract or swap. Assuming a 30 cent per gallon increase in price, our near term liquidity would be reduced by $22 million. For the majority of our fiscal year, the amount of cash received from customers with a balanced payment plan is greater than actual billings. This amount is reflected on the balance sheet under the caption “customer credit balances.” At September 30, 2007, customer credit balances aggregated $71.1 million. Generally, customer credit balances are at their low point after the end of the heating season and peak prior to the beginning of the heating season. We have approximately 110,000 customers, or 26% of our customer base, on the balanced payment plan. If home heating oil prices increased by 30 cents per gallon and we failed to recalculate the balanced payments to reflect current heating oil prices, our liquidity could also be reduced by as much as $30 million. Our substantial debt and other financial obligations could impair our financial condition and our ability to fulfill our debt obligations. We had total debt, exclusive of borrowings under our working capital facility, of approximately $172.8 million as of September 30, 2007. Our substantial indebtedness and other financial obligations could: • impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes; 9 Table of Contents • have a material adverse effect on us if we fail to comply with financial and affirmative and restrictive covenants in our debt agreements and an event of default occurs as a result of a failure that is not cured or waived; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow for interest payments on our indebtedness and other financial obligations, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital and capital expenditures; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have proportionately less debt. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations and other financial obligations, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness and other financial transactions, seek additional equity capital or sell our assets. We might then be unable to obtain such financing or capital or sell our assets on satisfactory terms, if at all. Since weather conditions may adversely affect the demand for home heating oil, our financial condition is vulnerable to warm winters. Weather conditions have a significant impact on the demand for home heating oil because our customers depend on this product principally for space heating purposes. As a result, weather conditions may materially adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. During the peak-heating season of October through March, sales of home heating oil historically have represented approximately 75% to 80% of our annual home heating oil volume. Actual weather conditions can vary substantially from year to year or from month to month, significantly affecting our financial performance. Furthermore, warmer than normal temperatures in one or more regions in which we operate can significantly decrease the total volume we sell and the gross profit realized on those sales and, consequently, our results of operations. For example, in fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2006, temperatures were significantly warmer than normal for the areas in which we sell home heating oil, which adversely affected the amount of net income, EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA that we generated during these periods. In fiscal 2002, temperatures in our areas of operation were an average of 18.4% warmer than in fiscal 2001 and 18.0% warmer than normal. For fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2009, we have purchased weather insurance to help minimize the adverse effect of weather volatility on our cash flows. This current weather insurance contract covers the period from November 1 to February 28, taken as a whole in each of the fiscal years covered. The strike or “pay-off” price is based on the 10-year moving average of degree- days for the contract period and has been set at approximately 3% less than the 10-year moving average. For every degree-day not realized below the strike-price we will receive $35,000, up to a maximum of $12.5 million. However, there can be no assurance that this insurance will be adequate to protect us from adverse effects of weather conditions or that we may be able to obtain a similar policy in the future. Our operating results will be adversely affected if we continue to experience significant net attrition in our home heating oil customer base. Our net attrition rate of home heating oil customers for fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005 was approximately 5.0%, 6.6% and 7.1%, respectively. This rate represents the net of our annual gross customer losses after gross customer gains. For fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005 we had gross customer losses of 17.6%, 19.6% and 20%, respectively, which were partially offset by gross customer gains during these periods of 12.6%, 13% and 12.9%, respectively. The gain of a new customer does not fully compensate for the loss of an existing customer because of the expenses incurred during the first year to acquire a new customer and the higher attrition rate associated with new customers. Customer losses are the result of various factors, including but not limited to: • price competition; • customer relocations; • credit problems; and • quality of service issues, The continuing unprecedented rise and volatility in the price of heating oil has intensified price competition and added to our difficulty in reducing net customer attrition. High net customer attrition rates may continue or increase through fiscal 2008 and perhaps beyond. Our net attrition rate of home heating oil customers from October 1, 2007 to November 30, 2007 was approximately 0.95%. Even if the rate of attrition can be reduced, attrition from prior fiscal years will adversely impact net income in the future. 10 Table of Contents For additional information about customer attrition, See Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Customer Attrition.” Sudden and sharp oil price increases that cannot be passed on to customers may adversely affect our operating results. The retail home heating oil industry is a “margin-based” business in which gross profit depends on the excess of retail sales prices per gallon over supply costs per gallon. Consequently, our profitability is sensitive to changes in the wholesale price of home heating oil caused by changes in supply or other market conditions. These factors are beyond our control and thus, when there are sudden and sharp increases in the wholesale cost of home heating oil, we may not be able to pass on these increases to customers through increased retail sales prices. Wholesale price increases could reduce our gross profits and could, if continuing over an extended period of time reduce demand by encouraging conservation or conversion to alternative energy sources. In an effort to retain existing accounts and attract new customers we may offer discounts, which will impact the net per gallon gross margin realized. A significant portion of our home heating oil volume is sold to price-protected customers and our gross margins could be adversely affected if we are not able to effectively hedge against fluctuations in the volume and cost of product sold to these customers. A significant portion of our home heating oil volume is sold to individual customers under an agreement pre-establishing the ceiling sales price or a fixed price of home heating oil over a 12-month period. For the fiscal years ended September 30, 2007 and 2006, approximately 38% of the total home heating oil volume sold was under a price-protected plan. We currently purchase option contracts, swaps and futures contracts for a substantial majority of the heating oil that we expect to sell to these price-protected customers when the customer renews his purchase commitment for the next 12 months. We generally get a signed agreement or a voice recording from these price-protected customers acknowledging the fixed or ceiling price per gallon. The amount of home heating oil volume that we hedge per price-protected customer is based upon the estimated fuel consumption per average customer, per month. In the event that the actual usage exceeds the amount of the hedged volume on a monthly basis, we could be required to obtain additional volume at unfavorable margins. In addition, should actual usage in any month be less than the hedged volume, our hedging losses could be greater. None of our derivative instruments qualify for hedge accounting treatment. Therefore, to the extent we continue to have derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment, we could experience great volatility in earnings as these currently outstanding derivative contracts are marked to market and non-cash gains or losses are recorded. If we do not make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, our future growth will be limited. The home heating oil industry is not a growth industry because, where natural gas is available, new housing generally does not use oil heat and increased competition exists from alternative energy sources. Accordingly, future growth will depend on our ability to make acquisitions at attractive prices. We cannot assure that we will be able to identify attractive acquisition candidates in the home heating oil sector in the future or that we will be able to acquire businesses on economically acceptable terms. Factors that may adversely affect home heating oil operating and financial results may limit our access to capital and adversely affect our ability to make acquisitions. Under the terms of our revolving credit facility, our most restrictive agreement, as long as we maintain certain financial ratios, we are not limited on the number of individual acquisitions or aggregate dollar amount of acquisitions we make in any fiscal year, but we are restricted from making any individual acquisition in excess of $25.0 million. In addition, to make an acquisition, the Partnership is required to have Availability (as defined in the credit agreement) of $30.0 million, on a pro forma basis, during the last 12-month period ending on the date of such acquisition. These restrictions may limit our ability to make acquisitions. Any acquisition may involve potential risks to us and ultimately to our unitholders, including: • an increase in our indebtedness; • an increase in our working capital requirements • our inability to integrate the operations of the acquired business; • our inability to successfully expand our operations into new territories; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • an excess of customer loss or loss of key employees from the acquired business; and • the assumption of additional liabilities including environmental liabilities 11 Table of Contents In addition, acquisitions may be dilutive to earnings and distributions to unitholders and any additional debt incurred to finance acquisitions may among other things, affect our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Because of the highly competitive nature of the retail home heating oil industry, we may not be able to retain existing customers or acquire new customers, which would have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. If we were unable to compete effectively, we may lose existing customers or fail to acquire new customers, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We can make no assurances that we will be able to compete successfully. If competitors continue to increase market share by reducing their prices, as we believe occurred recently, our operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We also compete for customers with suppliers of alternative energy products, principally natural gas. We face competition from electricity and natural gas. Over the past five years, approximately 1% our customers converted annually from heating oil to natural gas. This is consistent with the average ten-year data calculated from the 2000 U.S. Bureau of Census for the markets in which we operate, with specific markets converting to natural gas up to a 6% rate. The continuing unprecedented rise in the price of heating oil has intensified price competition, and as consumers become more price sensitive, added to our difficulty in reducing customer attrition. We are subject to operating and litigation risks that could adversely affect our operating results whether or not covered by insurance. Our operations are subject to all operating hazards and risks normally incidental to handling, storing, transporting and otherwise providing customers with our products. As a result, we may be a defendant in legal proceedings and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. We maintain insurance policies with insurers in amounts and with coverage and deductibles that we believe are reasonable. However, there can be no assurance that this insurance will be adequate to protect us from all material expenses related to potential future claims for remediation costs and personal and property damage or that these levels of insurance will be available in the future at economical prices. Our operations are subject to operational hazards and our insurance reserves may not be adequate to cover actual losses. We self-insure workers’ compensation, automobile and general liability claims up to a pre-established limit. In storing and delivering product to our customers, our operations are subject to operational hazards such as natural disasters, adverse weather, accidents, fires, explosions, hazardous materials releases, mechanical failures and other events beyond our control. If any of these events were to occur, we could incur substantial losses because of personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, and pollution or other environmental damage resulting in curtailment or suspension of our related operations. We establish reserves based upon expectations as to what our ultimate liability will be for claims using our historical developmental factors. We evaluate on an annual basis the potential for changes in loss estimates with the support of qualified actuaries. As of September 30, 2007, we had approximately $41.1 million of insurance reserves and had issued $51.5 million in letters of credit for past and future claims. The ultimate settlement of these claims could differ materially from the assumptions used to calculate the reserves, which could have a material effect on our results of operations. We are the subject of a consolidated class action lawsuit alleging violation of the federal securities laws, which if decided adversely, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. On or about October 21, 2004, a purported class action lawsuit on behalf of a purported class of unitholders was filed against the Partnership and various subsidiaries and officers and directors in the United States District Court of the District of Connecticut entitled Carter v. Star Gas Partners, L.P., et. al., No. 3:04-cv-01766-IBA, et. al. Subsequently, 16 additional class action complaints, alleging the same or substantially similar claims, were filed in the same district court. The class actions were consolidated into one consolidated amended complaint. For information concerning the procedural history and current status of this lawsuit, see “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” In the event the above action is decided adversely to us, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. 12 Table of Contents Our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by governmental regulation and associated environmental and regulatory costs. The home heating oil business is subject to a wide range of federal and state laws and regulations related to environmental and other matters. We have implemented environmental programs and policies designed to avoid potential liability and costs under applicable environmental laws. It is possible, however, that we will experience increased costs due to stricter pollution control requirements or liabilities resulting from noncompliance with operating or other regulatory permits. New environmental regulations might adversely impact operations, including underground storage and transportation of home heating oil. In addition, there are environmental risks inherently associated with home heating oil operations, such as the risks of accidental release or spill. It is possible that material costs and liabilities will be incurred, including those relating to claims for damages to property and persons. Energy efficiency and new technology may reduce the demand for our products and adversely affect our operating results. Increased conservation and technological advances, including installation of improved insulation and the development of more efficient furnaces and other heating devices, have adversely affected the demand for our products by retail customers. Future conservation measures or technological advances in heating, conservation, energy generation or other devices might reduce demand and adversely affect our operating results. Conflicts of interest have arisen and could arise in the future as a result of relationships between the general partner and its affiliates on the one hand, and the Partnership and its limited partners, on the other hand. Conflicts of interest have arisen and could arise in the future as a result of relationships between the general partner and its affiliates, on the one hand, and the Partnership or any of the limited partners, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts the general partner may favor its own interests and those of its affiliates over the interests of the unitholders. The nature of these conflicts is ongoing and includes the following considerations: • The general partner’s affiliates are not prohibited from engaging in other business or activities, including direct competition with us. • The general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures, borrowings and reserves, each of which can impact the amount of cash, if any, available for distribution to unitholders, and available to pay principal and interest on debt. • The general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to the Partnership by the general partner. • The general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel or others to perform services for the Partnership. • In some instances the general partner may borrow funds in order to permit the payment of distributions to unitholders. • The general partner may limit its liability and reduce its fiduciary duties, while also restricting the remedies available to unitholders for actions that might, without limitations, constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Unitholders are deemed to have consented to some actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise be deemed a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable state law. • The general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties in addition to the Partnership in resolving conflicts of interest, thereby limiting its fiduciary duty to the unitholders. • The general partner determines whether to issue additional units or other securities of the Partnership. • The general partner determines which costs are reimbursable by us. • The general partner is not restricted from causing us to pay the general partner or its affiliates for any services rendered on terms that are fair and reasonable to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf. The risk of global terrorism and political unrest may adversely affect the economy and the price and availability of home heating oil and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Terrorist attacks and political unrest may adversely impact the price and availability of home heating oil, our results of operations, our ability to raise capital and our future growth. The impact that the foregoing may have on the heating oil industry in general, and on our business in particular, is not known at this time. An act of terror could result in disruptions of crude oil supplies and markets, the source of home heating oil, and its facilities could be direct or indirect targets. Terrorist 13 Table of Contents activity may also hinder our ability to transport home heating oil if our normal means of transportation become damaged as a result of an attack. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism could also affect our ability to raise capital. Terrorist activity could likely lead to increased volatility in prices for home heating oil. Insurance carriers are routinely excluding coverage for terrorist activities from their normal policies, but are required to offer such coverage as a result of new federal legislation. We have opted to purchase this coverage with respect to our property and casualty insurance programs. This additional coverage has resulted in additional insurance premiums. The impact of hurricanes and other natural disasters could cause disruptions in supply and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Hurricanes, particularly in the Gulf of Mexico, and other natural disasters may cause disruptions in the supply chains for home heating oil and other products that we sell. Disruptions in supply could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, causing an increase in wholesale prices and decrease in supply. Cash distributions (if any) are not guaranteed and may fluctuate with performance and reserve requirements. Mandatory distributions of available cash by us to unitholders will not commence before February 2009. Thereafter, distributions on the common units will depend on the amount of cash generated, and distributions may fluctuate based on our performance. The actual amount of cash that is available will depend upon numerous factors, including: • profitability of operations; • required principal and interest payments on debt; • debt covenants • margin account requirements; • cost of acquisitions; • issuance of debt and equity securities; • fluctuations in working capital; • capital expenditures; • adjustments in reserves; • prevailing economic conditions; • financial, business and other factors; and • increased pension funding requirements • preserving our net operating loss carryforwards Most of these factors are beyond the control of the general partner. The partnership agreement gives the general partner discretion in establishing reserves for the proper conduct of our business. These reserves will also affect the amount of cash available for distribution. The revolving credit facility and the indenture for the senior notes both impose certain restrictions on our ability to pay distributions to unitholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 