Item 1A. Risk Factors 10 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 23 Item 2. Properties 23 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 23 Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 24 PART II Item 5. Market for the Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 24 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 26 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 30 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 67 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 69 Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 70 Consolidated Balance Sheets at September 30, 2007 and 2006 73 Consolidated Statements of Operations for each of the three years in the period ended September 30, 2007 74 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders Equity for each of the three years in the period ended September 30, 2007 75 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended September 30, 2007 76 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 77 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 132 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 132 Item 9B. Other Information 135 PART III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant 135 Item 11. Executive Compensation 135 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 136 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions 136 Item 14. Principal Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Fees and Services 136 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 136 Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 137 Signatures 138 Exhibit Index 140 EXHIBIT 10.56 EXHIBIT 21.1 EXHIBIT 23.1 EXHIBIT 31.1 EXHIBIT 31.2 EXHIBIT 32.1 ii Table of Contents SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. All statements included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K other than statements of historical fact may be forward-looking statements. You can identify these and other forward-looking statements by the use of words such as “may,” “will,” “could,” “would,” “should,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “relies,” “expects,” “intends,” “believes,” “estimates,” “predicts,” “potential,” “continue” or the negative of such terms, or other comparable terminology. Forward-looking statements also include the assumptions underlying or relating to any such statements. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations as of the filing date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and involve a number of uncertainties and risks. These uncertainties and risks include, but are not limited to: our ability to remediate material weaknesses in our internal controls; our ability to attract and retain qualified employees; possible further changes in our total customs duty liability; possible civil and criminal liability in connection with customs duty issues; the adoption of new technology by our existing and potential customers; our customers’ response to prevailing economic and market conditions; the changing customer investment climate, which could lead to the impairment of our assets; our ability to successfully migrate our manufacturing operations offshore; our ability to maintain competitive pricing; the introduction of competing products having technological and/or pricing advantages, which would reduce the demand for our products; our ability to operate and integrate our newly acquired subsidiary; and failure to comply with a variety of United States and foreign federal, state and local laws and regulations, which could lead to the Company incurring additional penalties, interest and other expenses. As a result, our actual results and end user demand may differ substantially from expectations. Our actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements included herein as a result of a number of factors, risks and uncertainties, including the risk factors set forth in Part I Item 1A. “Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is as of the filing date with the SEC and future events or circumstances could differ significantly from the forward-looking statements included herein. Accordingly, we caution readers not to place undue reliance on such statements and we expressly assume no obligation to update the forward-looking statements included in this report after the date hereof except as required by law. iii Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Introduction Photon Dynamics, Inc. (“Photon Dynamics” or the “Company”) is a California corporation incorporated in 1986. At Photon Dynamics, we utilize our advanced digital imaging technology to develop systems that enable flat panel display manufacturers to collect and analyze data from the production line, and quickly diagnose and repair process-related defects, thereby allowing manufacturers to decrease material costs and improve throughput. Flat panel display manufacturers use our portfolio of products, services and expertise to increase manufacturing yields of high-performance flat panel displays used in a number of products, including notebook and desktop computers, televisions and advanced mobile electronic devices such as cellular phones, personal digital assistants and portable video games. On July 27, 2007 we acquired Salvador Imaging, Inc. (“Salvador Imaging”) an international supplier of high-performance digital cameras for the defense, industrial and scientific/medical industries. Salvador Imaging was previously one of our suppliers of camera equipment used in Photon Dynamics’ yield enhancing test equipment. In addition to acquiring their current product base of camera imaging systems, we intend to combine our digital imaging core competencies with Salvador Imaging’s technical strength, as well as our operational and manufacturing strengths, to develop highly sensitive color and monochrome cameras that can be used to provide daytime and nighttime surveillance capabilities for defense applications and unique inspection capabilities in industrial applications. Additional information about Photon Dynamics, Inc. is available on our website at www.photondynamics.com. We make available free of charge, on or through our website, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such reports with, or furnishing such reports to, the SEC. Information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference in, or made part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or our other filings with or reports furnished to the SEC. Our Business Segments We have two business segments: Flat Panel Display and High-Performance Digital Imaging. Flat Panel Display is our primary business segment, accounting for approximately 99% of our revenues during this fiscal year. We commenced operations in our High-Performance Digital Imaging segment with our acquisition of Salvador Imaging on July 27, 2007. Flat Panel Display Industry. Flat panel displays have become the standard technology in both the mobile electronic devices market and the notebook and desktop computer market. In the television market, flat panel displays have become the standard in adoption rates; however, cathode ray tube displays continue to comprise the majority of the installed base. Competing technology in the television market, such as plasma technology, is limited to large-screen televisions. Continuous innovations in microelectronics and materials science have enabled manufacturers, including our customers, to produce flat panel displays with sharper resolution, brighter pixels and faster imaging in varying sizes for differing applications. Growth in the mobile electronic devices market, the desktop computer market and the television market have driven the demand for flat panel displays, which offer reduced footprint, weight, power consumption and heat emission and better picture quality as compared to cathode ray tube displays. Active matrix liquid crystal display (“AMLCD”), the most prevalent and one of the highest performance flat panel displays available today, produces full color images and operates at much faster refresh rates than earlier passive monochrome liquid crystal displays. The color capability, resolution, speed and picture quality of active matrix liquid crystal displays currently make these displays the preferred choice for high-performance mobile 1 Table of Contents applications, such as portable computers, multimedia, televisions and other applications requiring the display of video and graphics. Manufacturing these highly engineered flat panel display products requires complex, multi-stage production processes, increasing the potential for defects and errors associated with equipment failures, contamination of materials, drift in process parameters, human error and other related factors. These complexities are compounded by the flat panel display industry’s migration toward large-area glass substrates for economical, high-volume production of larger display panels. These manufacturing complexities increase investment in work-in-progress inventories and lengthen production cycles. Because of the high cost of materials used in the manufacture of liquid crystal display (“LCD”), defective LCDs can be quite costly for LCD manufacturers, and ultimately drive up both panel and end product costs. Reliable, repeatable methods of analyzing production-line data and repairing process-related defects are therefore essential to enabling the production of larger, higher-quality LCDs at affordable price points. Enhancing yields through process control, defect detection and defect repair has become an essential component of optimizing costs and time-to-market in the Flat Panel Display sector. As production processes become more complex and reducing material and labor costs becomes increasingly important, we believe that yield enhancement solutions provide manufacturers with an important competitive advantage. Manufacture of Active Matrix Liquid Crystal Displays. The manufacture of active matrix liquid crystal displays is an extremely complex process, which has been developed and refined for different glass substrate sizes and resolutions through research and development, pre-production prototyping and commercial production. An AMLCD uses liquid crystal to control the passage of light. Liquid crystals are organic molecules that have crystal-like properties but that are liquid at normal temperatures. Because the intermolecular forces are weak, the molecules can be oriented by weak electromagnetic fields. The liquid crystal molecules used in AMLCDs also have an optical anisotropy (different indices of refraction for different axes of the molecule) that is used to create visible images. Depending on the orientation of the molecules, the panel is either transparent or dark. The basic structure of an AMLCD panel may be thought of as two glass panels sandwiching a layer of liquid crystal. The front glass panel, referred to as the color filter plate, is fitted with a two dimensional matrix of color filters and the back glass panel, referred to as the array plate, has a matching two dimensional matrix of transistors fabricated on it. The individual element of the two dimensional matrix is referred to as a pixel. When voltage is applied to a transistor, the liquid crystal is bent, allowing light to pass through to form a pixel. A light source is located at the back of the panel and is called a backlight unit. The front glass panel is fitted with a color filter, which gives each pixel its own color. The combination of these pixels in different colors forms the image on the panel. Glass panels are initially manufactured on large glass substrates which are subsequently cut down to the panel size needed for the application. Each progressive increase in substrate size is referred to by its “generation.” Generation 5 substrate glass is approximately 1,200 × 1,300 mm in size, Generation 6 substrate glass is approximately 1,500 × 1,800 mm in size, Generation 7 substrate glass is approximately 1,870 × 2,200 mm in size, and Generation 7.5 and 8 substrate glass is approximately 2,160 x 2,460 mm in size. Next generation substrates glass (Generation 10) is currently estimated to be 2,850 x 3,050mm in size. Manufacturing an active matrix liquid crystal display involves three principal phases: • Array Phase. The first phase of the process involves the production of both the array plate and color filter plate. This phase of the process is the fabrication of an array of thin-film transistors (“TFT”), each of which is connected to a transparent sub-pixel, the smallest addressable unit in the display. Three or more sub-pixels are combined to produce a pixel, millions of which are fabricated, using semiconductor processes, on a large glass substrate. A similar process is used to fabricate an array of color filter sub-pixels on a large glass substrate. The array fabrication process is the most capital-intensive process and is housed in cleanrooms in order to minimize particles that can cause pixel defects. • Cell Assembly Phase. The second phase, cell assembly, is the joining of the TFT array plate and the color filter plate with liquid crystal material. 2 Table of Contents • Module Assembly Phase. The third phase, module assembly, involves packaging the display and attaching the electronics and illumination — or backlight — which will allow the device to display text, graphics and video images. The AMLCD market is both price sensitive and cost competitive, making it critical for manufacturers to constantly strive for the highest possible yields to decrease costs. Unlike semiconductor fabrication facilities, where productivity can be increased by shrinking features and die size, AMLCD fabrication productivity is driven by yield and substrate size, the latter being because an increase in the plate area with each new generation results in a disproportionately lower increase in processing equipment costs, generating new production efficiencies. At various points in the manufacturing process, the flat panel display manufacturer uses test and inspection equipment to identify defects to permit repair and to avoid wasting costly materials on continued manufacturing of a defective product. In addition, test and inspection systems can provide qualitative feedback to the flat panel display manufacturer and enable the manufacturer to address yield problems where they originate and to optimize the manufacturing process. The manufacturing process for each new generation of glass substrate typically requires new fabrication facilities (“fabs”), modifications of the manufacturing process, development and installation of new manufacturing equipment, and, as a result, development and installment of new test and repair equipment. New fabrication facilities and upgrades to existing facilities represent significant investments by flat panel display manufacturers and take time to properly plan, implement, and bring to full capacity. Challenges Faced by Flat Panel Display Manufacturers. The ability of flat panel display manufacturers to improve yields of active matrix liquid crystal displays and other flat panel displays depends, in large part, on their ability to test, repair and inspect displays during the manufacturing process and to use the resulting data collection to refine the manufacturing process. The ability to test, repair and inspect helps manufacturers address a number of challenges, including: • Demand for Higher Quality. Increased competition among flat panel display manufacturers, improvements in the manufacturing process and higher consumer expectations are moving the flat panel display industry towards a zero defect standard. The manufacturing challenges presented by the goal of zero-defect products have been compounded by the increasing demand for higher resolution and larger displays. • Increasing Display Resolutions. Resolutions of advanced flat panel displays now involve several million pixels, presenting a challenge when test and inspection equipment must exercise each pixel. Traditional methods of physically contacting each row and column of pixels with probe cards have difficulty handling current advanced displays. Manufacturers require new techniques, such as non-contact pixel-addressing mechanisms, to more effectively handle these displays. • High Cost of Materials. Materials costs comprise approximately 50% to 70% of flat panel display costs, in contrast to only approximately 10% for semiconductors, according to industry sources. Material costs are typically incurred at the start of the manufacturing process and expose the flat panel display manufacturer to higher overall costs due to yield losses incurred during the manufacturing process. High performance LCDs for television applications further increase the complexities associated with LCD manufacturing. Because of the high cost of materials used in the manufacture of LCDs, defective LCDs, especially larger displays, represent a substantial cost to LCD manufacturers, and can ultimately drive up both panel and end product costs. Therefore, it is important to test, repair and inspect early in the manufacturing process before expensive materials are added to the display in the latter assembly phases. • Need for Increased Yield and Greater Throughput. Greater yields are realized in part through more effective test, repair and inspection. In order to maintain or improve profitability, flat panel display manufacturers need test, repair and inspection equipment that will allow them to increase process speed while using larger panels. • Need for Flexibility. The flat panel display industry is producing a larger number of different panel sizes as the variety of applications incorporating flat panel displays has increased. Manufacturers are seeking test, 3 Table of Contents repair and inspection equipment that can be reconfigured quickly and accurately for different panel sizes, with minimal production downtime. Products. Today’s market dynamics demand that flat panel display manufacturers leverage the latest yield enhancement and process tools. We focus specifically on delivering yield enhancement solutions that enable manufacturers to collect data from the production line, analyze the data, and quickly diagnose and repair process-related defects. We focus specifically on delivering solutions that help manufacturers decrease material costs and improve throughput to gain that incremental yield edge so critical to success. Our offerings can be broadly classified into two categories: Yield Enhancement Products and Customer Support. Yield Enhancement Products. Our flat panel display yield enhancement products include test and repair equipment that are used primarily in the Array phase of production. Our test equipment can identify and characterize defects at early stages of the manufacturing process so that the panels may be repaired before the next stage or, if necessary, discarded, minimizing the loss of time and materials. Our test and repair systems use similar software-based controls, processing and graphical user interfaces. Our products can be networked together with one another as well as with complementary vendor products so that defect data can be stored, analyzed and used throughout the manufacturing process. Our systems are also compatible with a variety of material handling automation systems. • Flat Panel Display Array Test Systems. Our ArrayCheckertm test systems detect, locate, quantify and characterize electrical, contamination and other defects in active matrix liquid crystal displays after array fabrication. These systems use our proprietary non-contact voltage imaging technology to provide a high-resolution voltage map of the entire display and our proprietary image analysis software converts this voltage map into complete pixel defect data. The ArrayCheckertm test systems determine whether individual pixels or lines of pixels are functional and also find more subtle defects such as variations in individual pixel voltage. These defect data files are then used for repair and statistical process control. • Flat Panel Display Array Repair Systems. Our ArraySavertm repair systems utilize multiple wavelength laser technology to repair defects in flat panel displays during and after array fabrication. Our systems can use defect data files downloaded from our ArrayCheckertm test systems or other test and inspection systems to automatically position the panel for repair, thereby eliminating the time spent by operators locating defects. The ArraySavertm system includes a high-precision materials handling platform and a user-friendly graphical interface allowing for high throughput. Our high-precision materials handling platform fully automates the precise positioning of the plate for each successive repair, thereby substantially increasing throughput. Our graphical user interface and software supports semi-automated setup of repair programs for common types of defects so that repairs can be executed rapidly and accurately. These programs provide a series of actions that the system automatically executes to repair the particular defect type. Customer Support. We enhance the value of our products through our customer support programs, which provide comprehensive worldwide service and support across all of our product lines. With years of experience helping our customers increase yields across a myriad of production environments, our global yield enhancement support organization is equipped to provide customers with a range of preventative and corrective services. These include design, development, and integration services associated with yield enhancement, as well as comprehensive training, project management, process and applications consulting, product maintenance, and life cycle optimization. Customers. We sell our flat panel display yield enhancement products to manufacturers in the flat panel display industry. Nearly all of our flat panel display customers are located in South Korea, Taiwan, Japan and China, where flat panel display production is concentrated. We derive most of our revenue from a small number of customers, and we expect this to continue for the foreseeable future. Sales to our top four customers accounted for 77% of revenue in fiscal 2007, while sales to our top three customers accounted for 76% and 46% of revenue in fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively. During fiscal 2007, sales to LG.Phillips LCD, Samsung Electronics, AU Optronics Corporation and Sharp Corporation each accounted for more than 10% of our total revenues. See Note 14 of our “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information, which is incorporated here by reference, regarding sales to our major customers. 4 Table of Contents Our business depends significantly upon the capital expenditures of flat panel display manufacturers, which in turn depend on the current and anticipated market demand for products utilizing flat panel displays. We do not consider our business to be seasonal in nature, but it is cyclical with respect to the capital equipment procurement practices of flat panel display manufacturers and is impacted by the investment patterns of these manufacturers. We do consider consumer demand for flat panel display products to be seasonal, with peak demand occurring in the latter half of each calendar year. This end-user seasonality has an influence on capacity decisions by flat panel display manufacturers and has a limited influence on the flat panel display manufacturers’ overall investment patterns. However, because new fabrication facilities and upgrades to existing facilities represent significant investments and require long lead times to implement, we consider flat panel display manufacturers to have cyclical investment patterns. Downturns in the flat panel industry or slowdowns in the worldwide economy have in the past had and could in the future have a material adverse effect on our future business and financial results. Sales, Service and Marketing. Our sales, service and marketing strategy is to provide our flat panel display customers with increased manufacturing yields and throughput, improved quality and greater overall efficiency in their manufacturing process. Our sales, service and marketing efforts are focused on building long-term relationships with our customers. We sell our products for the flat panel display industry directly to our customers in South Korea, Taiwan, Japan and China. We service our products worldwide directly at the customer site. Revenue from our flat panel display products represented 99% of our revenue in fiscal 2007, and 100% of our revenue in fiscal 2006 and 2005, and all of this revenue was derived from sales to companies located outside of the United States. We believe that sales outside the United States will continue to comprise substantially all of our flat panel display revenues. Our future performance will depend, in part, on our ability to compete successfully in Asia. Our ability to compete in this area of the world is dependent upon the continuation of favorable trade laws between countries in the region and the United States, our continuing ability to maintain satisfactory relationships with flat panel display manufacturers in the region and our ability to price our products competitively as compared to our competitors. Our sales terms range from 60% to 90% of the sales price due upon shipment with the remaining amount due after installation and upon final customer acceptance. We typically provide a limited warranty on our products for a period of 12 months from final acceptance or 14 months from shipment, whichever is shorter. Our field service employees and third-party field service personnel provide customers with repair and maintenance services, primarily warranty related. As of September 30, 2007, we employed 105 sales and service personnel, 20 of whom were located in North America and 85 of whom were located in the Asia-Pacific region, and contracted with a third party to provide an additional field service personnel in Asia. We outsourced a portion of our field service operation in Asia with the objective of lowering overall costs of service without compromising quality. International sales expose us to risks that are not experienced with domestic sales, such as export license restrictions, political instability, customs compliance, trade restrictions and currency fluctuations. These and other risks relating to our business are detailed Part I, Item 1A. “Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. See Note 14 of our “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” included under Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional geographic information, which is incorporated here by reference, including long-lived assets by geographic area as well as revenue from external customers attributable to geographic areas during the last three years. Manufacturing. While our products have been historically manufactured in San Jose, California, during the second quarter of our fiscal 2007, we began manufacture of certain of our ArraySavertm products in Daejon, Korea and have begun to outsource both our ArraySavertm and ArrayTester products to third party manufacturers. We perform design, assembly and testing in-house and utilize an outsourcing strategy for the manufacture of a majority of our components and subassemblies. Our in-house manufacturing activities consist primarily of final assembly and test of components and subassemblies that are acquired through third-party vendors and integrating those subassemblies into our finished products. As of September 30, 2007, we employed 61 manufacturing personnel, 52 of whom were located in North America and 9 of whom were located in the Asia-Pacific region. Our strategy to outsource the assembly of our ArraySavertm product line and certain generations of our ArrayCheckertm product line entirely to third-party contractors in Asia is designed to allow us to manufacture our products closer to our customers, transform fixed costs into variable costs and reduce overall costs. We expect to outsource all of our 5 Table of Contents manufacturing in the future with the exception of key core components such as modulators and payloads, which we will continue to source in the United States. We schedule our flat panel display production based upon customer purchase orders and anticipated orders during the planning cycle. We generally expect to be able to accept a customer order, build the required systems and ship to the customer within approximately 20 to 36 weeks. We maintain quality control through inspection of components, in-process inspection during equipment assembly and final inspection and operation of all manufactured equipment prior to shipment. Although we assemble some components and final test our systems under limited clean room conditions, most of our manufacturing occurs in standard manufacturing space. Because of the long lead time required to acquire the materials and manufacture a customer order and the cyclical nature of the business, a significant increase in orders could necessitate a build-up in inventory and therefore initially have a negative impact on cash flow. In addition, all orders are subject to postponement or cancellation by the customer with limited or no penalties, which could further result in a build-up in inventory and negatively affect our cash flows. We believe that our operations and facilities are in substantial compliance with all applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations covering the discharge of materials into, and protection of, the environment. Research and Development. The market for integrated yield enhancement systems is characterized by rapid and continuous technological development and product innovation. We believe that it is necessary to maintain our competitive position through continued and timely development of new products and enhancements to existing products. Accordingly, we devote a significant portion of our human and financial resources to research and development and seek to maintain close relationships with customers to remain responsive to their needs. For information regarding our research and development expenses during the last three years, see Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is incorporated here by reference. As of September 30, 2007, we employed 136 research and development personnel, 74 of whom were located in North America and 62 of whom were located in the Asia-Pacific region. We are focusing our current research and development on increasing the performance of our current array test and array repair systems, the design of our next generation systems, and the development of new technologies. We are committing significant engineering efforts toward product improvement and next generation product development. For example, during 2007 we announced the development of our ParagonAviostm Sensor Technology, which improves the throughput and reduces the cost of ownership of our ArrayCheckertm product line. We will continue to invest in research and development to maintain technology leadership in our products. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in the introduction, marketing and cost-effective manufacture of any of our new products, that we will be able to develop and introduce new products on a timely basis, or that we will be able to enhance our existing products and processes to satisfy customer needs. High-Performance Digital Imaging Acquisition of Salvador Imaging. During fiscal 2007, we purchased Salvador Imaging, an international supplier of high-performance digital cameras for defense, industrial and other applications. Our new High-Performance Digital Imaging business will combine the digital imaging core competencies of Photon Dynamics and Salvador Imaging as well as our operational and manufacturing strengths to develop highly sensitive color and monochrome cameras that can be used to provide daytime and nighttime surveillance capabilities for the military and security markets, and unique inspection capabilities in industrial applications. While we are developing evaluation units and are actively engaged in marketing and sales activities, the activity of Salvador Imaging for the period from the July 27, 2007 date of purchase through September 30, 2007 was immaterial to the Company’s consolidated financial statements. Industry. High-performance digital cameras are used in the defense, industrial and scientific/medical industries for a variety of applications. In the defense industry, high-performance digital camera applications include targeting, unmanned vehicle guidance, discrimination of decoy versus real targets and daytime and 6 Table of Contents nighttime surveillance. Industrial customers use high-performance digital cameras for inspection, metrology and machine guidance. Scientific and medical industry applications include X-ray and fluoroscopy. The principal types of high-performance digital cameras include charge-coupled device (“CCD”) cameras, complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor (“CMOS”) cameras, and electron multiplying charge-coupled device (“EMCCD”) cameras. CCD cameras are typically used in applications where very high quality imagery is needed, such as medical, scientific and astronomical applications. While CMOS cameras typically do not offer image quality as high as their CCD counterparts, CMOS offers the advantages of allowing for readouts at higher speeds and higher levels of on-chip circuit integration. CMOS cameras are typically used for industrial machine vision. In EMCCD cameras, an on-chip gain mechanism is employed, which makes it possible to capture images at extremely low light levels. Applications for EMCCDs include night-time perimeter security, military surveillance, astronomy and certain low-light medical applications ranging from cell biology to radiology. Products. We offer standard and custom CCD, CMOS and EMCCD cameras to meet the needs of a broad range of defense, industrial and scientific/medical markets. All of our camera products incorporate low noise, precision analog design coupled with proprietary thermal stabilization to provide high quality imaging performance. Customers. We sell our high-performance digital camera products to end customers and system integrators in the defense, scientific, machine vision and medical markets. Our two largest customers in the High-Performance Digital Imaging segment are Lockheed Martin and Remote Vet, which together accounted for less than one percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2007. The unique risks associated with depending on the U.S. government as a significant source of segment revenue are described further in Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Sales, Service and Marketing. Prior to its acquisition, Salvador Imaging’s principal customer had been Photon Dynamics and we have had limited revenue from our high-performance digital imaging products to date and limited experience selling these products to third parties. We rely on a combination of direct sales and a network of qualified sales representatives to sell our high-performance digital imaging products, and we service the products directly. As of September 30, 2007, we had only one employee dedicated to the sale and service of our high-performance digital imaging products at our Colorado Springs facility. In conjunction with the growth of the business, we intend to build our sales, service and marketing organization for these products. Manufacturing. We perform design, assembly, testing and quality control of our high performance digital cameras in-house at our Colorado Springs facility. We utilize an outsourcing strategy for the manufacture of a majority of our components and subassemblies. Production lead times are six to twelve weeks, and camera production is based on customer purchase orders and anticipated orders. As of September 30, 2007, we employed four manufacturing personnel at our Colorado Springs, Colorado facility. We believe that our operations and facilities are in substantial compliance with all applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations covering the discharge of materials into, and protection of, the environment. During 2007, Salvador Imaging obtained ISO 9000: 2001 certification and in January 2008, Salvador Imaging became certified under the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR), a set of U.S. government regulations that control the export and import of defense-related products and services. Research and Development. We are focusing our current research and development on highly sensitive color and monochrome cameras that can be used to provide daytime and nighttime surveillance capabilities for defense applications and cameras with unique inspection capabilities for industrial applications. As of September 30, 2007, we employed 17 research and development personnel at our Colorado Springs, Colorado facility. Suppliers Many of the parts, components and subassemblies (collectively “parts”) that we purchase from our suppliers are standard commercial products, although certain parts are made to our specifications. We use numerous vendors to supply parts for the manufacture and support of our products; however, we obtain several parts, components and subassemblies for our systems from a sole source or a limited group of suppliers. For example, we currently obtain material handling platforms, PCI boards, certain laser assemblies and certain pellicle products from various single 7 Table of Contents source suppliers. Although we seek to reduce dependence on sole source and limited group suppliers, alternative sources of supply for certain pieces of equipment remain unavailable or may only be available on unfavorable terms. The partial or complete loss of a single source or limited group of suppliers or any delay in shipment from a single source or limited group of suppliers could negatively impact our results of operations, damage customer relationships and subject us to penalties from our customers for late delivery of customer orders. Further, a significant increase in the price of one or more of these pieces of equipment could harm our results of operations. To date, we have not experienced any significant damages or loss as a result of sourcing from a sole source or limited group of suppliers or any related delays in shipment. Intellectual Property We protect our proprietary technology through various methods such as patents and patent applications, trademarks, non-disclosure agreements and trade secrets. We have filed and obtained a number of United States and foreign patents and have also jointly filed patent applications in Japan. As of November 3, 2007, we have been issued 70 patents in the United States that are effective. The normal expiration dates of these patents range from 2007 to 2024. As of November 3, 2007, there are 23 pending patent applications in the United States. As of November 3, 2007, we have been issued 41 non-U.S. patents that are in force, with expiration dates beginning in 2010, and there are 76 non-U.S. pending patent applications. From time to time, we license our patents to third parties for use in fields of use other than the flat panel industry. Our patents relate to various aspects of our yield enhancement solutions and other technology as set forth in the following table (as of November 3, 2007): Patents in Force U.S. Non-U.S. Yield enhancement products 43 31 Other 27 10 Total 70 41 We intend to continue to pursue the legal protection of our technology through intellectual property laws. However, we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights will be adequate or that third parties will not infringe, challenge or misappropriate our proprietary rights. Backlog Our backlog consists of work-in-process and unshipped system orders, unearned revenue and systems in deferred gross margin. As of September 30, 2007, our backlog was approximately $60.5 million, compared to approximately $71.0 million as of September 30, 2006. We expect to ship or to recognize revenue on the majority of the September 2007 backlog within the next six to twelve months. All orders are subject to postponement or cancellation by the customer with limited or no penalties. Because of possible changes in product delivery schedules and cancellation of product orders, among other factors, our backlog may vary significantly and, at any particular date, is not necessarily indicative of actual sales for any succeeding period. Competition The worldwide markets for integrated yield enhancement systems and high-performance digital cameras are highly competitive. We face substantial competition from established companies, many of which have greater financial, engineering and manufacturing resources, larger service organizations and long-standing customer relationships with key existing and potential customers. We may also face future competition from new market entrants from other overseas and domestic sources. Our competitors in the Flat Panel Display segment primarily include Micronics Japan, Applied Komatsu Technology, Shimadzu Corporation, LaserFront Technologies, NTN Corporation, Contrel Limited, LG Tech Center, Charm Engineering and Hoya Continuum Corporation. Our competitors in the High-Performance Digital Imaging segment include Roper Industries, Andor, Dalsa and Ball Aerospace. 8 Table of Contents In both the Flat Panel Display segment and High-Performance Digital Imaging segment, we expect our competitors to continue to improve the design and performance of their products and to introduce new products with competitive price and performance characteristics. In addition, our customers may choose to develop proprietary technology that may obviate or lessen their need to purchase our products. Moreover, increased competitive pressure may necessitate price-based competition, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the Flat Panel Display segment, we believe that we can compete effectively with our competitors by building on our substantial installed customer base, providing technologically superior, competitively priced products and emphasizing our easy-to-use user interfaces and customer support. However, realizing and maintaining such advantages will require a continued high level of investment by us in engineering, research and development, marketing and customer service and support. We may not have sufficient resources to continue to make such investments. Even if sufficient funds are available, we may not be able to make the technological advances in a timely manner necessary to maintain such competitive advantages in the Flat Panel Display segment. Significant competitive factors in the market for our yield enhancement systems include system performance, ease of use, reliability, installed base and technical service and support. We believe that, while price and delivery are important competitive factors, our customers’ overriding requirement is for systems that easily and effectively incorporate automated and highly accurate inspection and repair capabilities into their existing manufacturing processes, thereby enhancing productivity. Our yield enhancement systems for the flat panel display industry are intended to compete based upon performance and technical capabilities. These systems may compete with less expensive and more labor-intensive manual inspection devices. Significant competitive factors in the market for our high performance digital cameras include performance, ease of use, reliability and technical service and support. We believe that while price and delivery are important competitive factors, our customers’ overriding requirement is for cameras that easily and effectively meet our customers’ requirements for demanding performance and reliability under harsh physical conditions. Our high performance digital cameras are intended to compete based upon performance and technical capabilities, but may also compete with less expensive, lower performance cameras. Employees As of September 30, 2007, we employed 343 persons. No employees are represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We also utilize contract labor, predominantly in our manufacturing operations, which improves our ability to adjust manpower in response to changing demand for our products. Notwithstanding our high turnover rate, described in greater detail below, we consider our relationships with current employees to be generally satisfactory. Competition is intense in the recruiting of personnel in both the flat panel display and the high-performance digital camera industries. Our future success may depend in part on our continued ability to hire and retain qualified management and technical employees. Our employee turnover in fiscal 2007 was 33% in total, including the voluntary resignation of 15% of our employees. Business Combinations and Acquisitions In addition to our efforts to develop new technologies from internal sources, we may also seek to acquire new technologies from external sources. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including management issues and costs in connection with integration of the operations, technologies and products of the acquired companies, possible write-downs of impaired assets, and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies. During fiscal 2007 we purchased Salvador Imaging, an international supplier of high-performance digital cameras for defense, industrial and other applications. This acquisition seeks to leverage our digital imaging core competencies as well as our operational and manufacturing strengths to develop highly sensitive color and 9 Table of Contents monochrome cameras for new potential markets outside the flat panel display market. In October 2007, we entered into an agreement with LT Solar LLC to acquire an interest in certain technologies related to solar panel technology. In fiscal 2006, we entered into agreements that committed us to provide funding and limited use licenses to certain of our intellectual property to an early-stage development company, NB Digital. This venture sought to leverage our technology in new potential markets; however, in fiscal 2007 we stopped funding NB Digital, which went into bankruptcy and ceased operations. For further details regarding our business combinations and dispositions, please see Note 5 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” included under Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For further details regarding our October 2007 acquisition, please see Note 17 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” included under Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as a result of a number of factors, risks and uncertainties, including the risk factors set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our securities. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We have organized our risks into the following categories: • Risks Relating to our Business • Risks Relating to Owning our Common Stock • Risks Relating to Our Restatements and Related Matters RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS We have sustained losses and we may sustain losses in the future. We reported a net loss for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2007. Although we reported net income for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006 and 2004, we reported a net loss for each of the fiscal years ended September 30, 2005, 2003 and 2002. In the future our revenue may decline, remain flat or grow at a rate slower than expected. In fiscal 2007, we experienced substantially lower levels of bookings and revenues due to factory investment delays by our customers, as discussed in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our ability to achieve and maintain profitability is dependent in part on the success of our efforts to increase revenues and to reduce operating expenses as a percentage of revenue through our ongoing cost-cutting measures, gross margin improvement programs and outsourcing of manufacturing to Asia. If demand for our products is not sustained and we do not react quickly to reduce discretionary and variable spending, this would impair our ability to achieve profitability on a going-forward basis. For all of these reasons, there is no assurance that we will be successful in achieving or maintaining increased revenue, reduced operating expenses, positive cash flows or profitability and we may incur losses going forward. Our customers may cancel or defer their purchases at any time and on short notice, which could harm our operating results. Our flat panel display business is substantially dependent on orders we receive and fill on a short-term basis. We do not have contracts with our customers that provide any assurance of future sales, and sales are typically made pursuant to individual purchase orders, often with short lead times. Accordingly, our customers: • may stop purchasing our products or defer their purchases at any time without penalty; 10 Table of Contents • are free to purchase products from our competitors; • are not required to make minimum purchases; and • have cancelled, and may in the future cancel, purchase orders that they place with us without reimbursing us for any costs incurred. As a result, we cannot rely on orders in backlog as a reliable and consistent source of future revenue. Sales to any single customer may and do vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Our flat panel display customers generally do not place purchase orders more than twelve months in advance. In addition, our customers’ purchase orders have varied significantly from quarter to quarter. This means that customers who account for a significant portion of our revenues in one quarter may not and often do not place orders at the same level as the current quarter in the succeeding quarter, which makes it difficult to forecast our revenues in future periods. Moreover, our expense levels are based in part on our expectations of future revenue, and we may be unable to adjust costs in a timely manner in response to further revenue shortfalls. In addition, because certain parts used in our manufacturing process require longer lead times, if a customer cancels an order, we may be required to record additional inventory write-offs, which would have a negative impact on our gross margin. In addition, a small number of our flat panel display products are built without any advance customer commitment. All of these factors can result in significant quarterly fluctuations in our operating results. Our operating results are difficult to predict and may vary from investors’ expectations, which could cause our stock price to fall. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, significant fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results. Consequently, past financial results may not be indicative of future financial results. A substantial percentage of our revenue is derived from the sale of a small number of flat panel yield enhancement systems that ranged in price from approximately $450,000 to $3.4 million in fiscal 2007. Therefore, the timing of, and recognition of revenue from, the sale of a single system could have a significant impact on our quarterly and annual results. After we ship our products, customers may reject or delay acceptance, which would adversely impact our revenues and our stock price. Moreover, customers may cancel or reschedule shipments, and production difficulties could delay shipments. Other factors which may influence our operating results in a particular quarter or fiscal year include: • the result of competitive pricing pressures; • the timing of the receipt of orders from major customers; • the result of sudden, unanticipated changes in customer requirements; • the cancellation or postponement of firm orders by a customer without compensation; • the receipt of final acceptance on new products; • the product mix that makes up our revenue; • the incurrence of warranty expenses; • our inability to reduce our expense levels quickly in the event of market downturns, due to the fact that a high percentage of our expenses, including those related to manufacturing, engineering, research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative functions, is fixed in the short term; • the ability to obtain components from our single or limited source suppliers in a timely manner; • the ability to effectively implement our strategy of migrating or outsourcing manufacturing offshore; • the ability of our offshore manufacturing operations to timely produce and deliver products in the quantity and of the quality our customers require; • the costs of operations in the global markets in which we do business; • the effects of changing international economic conditions; 11 Table of Contents • the effects of currency exchange rate fluctuations; • the outcome of the appeal of litigation with a former executive officer; • the effects of worldwide political instability; • the ability to design, manufacture and introduce new products on a cost-effective and timely basis; • the delay between expenses to further develop marketing and service capabilities and the realization of benefits from those improved capabilities; and • the introduction of new products by our competitors. Due to the factors noted above and other risks discussed in this section, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. In addition, as a result of these or other factors, our operating results could be significantly and adversely affected and our stock price could decline. In addition, it is possible that in some future quarter our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to fall. We have experienced multiple material weaknesses in our internal controls and procedures during our 2003 through 2007 fiscal years, including three material weaknesses identified during our 2007 fiscal year that have not yet been remediated. If we are unable to implement our remediation plan effectively or if other material weaknesses or control deficiencies develop that we are unable to address, the material weaknesses in our internal controls could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, result in our failure to meet reporting obligations and adversely affect our stock price. We have experienced one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting during each of our 2003 through 2007 fiscal years. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal controls over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable probability that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As described in more detail in Item 9A, our internal review of customs practices and the resulting restatement of our consolidated financial statements led to the identification of three material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, which have not yet been successfully remediated. Our inability to maintain effective internal controls has strained our resources, caused us to delay filing periodic reports with the SEC and subjected us to potential delisting. In addition, we have experienced significant turnover in key financial positions, including three different chief financial officers in the last three years. This turnover has increased the difficulty of improving our financial controls. Our current chief financial officer has determined to leave the Company effective following completion and filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In order to remediate our material weaknesses effectively, we will need to attract and retain a new chief financial officer and devote significant resources to building a new finance team. Although we intend to commit significant resources to rebuilding our finance team and remediating these material weaknesses, there can be no assurances that we will be successful in doing so, or that our revised internal controls and procedures will be effective in remediating our existing material weaknesses and preventing additional material weaknesses from occurring in the future. If we are unable to implement our remediation plan effectively or if other material weaknesses or control deficiencies develop, the material weaknesses in our internal controls could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, result in our failure to meet reporting obligations and adversely affect our stock price. In addition, we will be required to hire additional employees to implement our remediation plan and improve our control environment, which could result in higher than anticipated operating expenses during the implementation of these changes and thereafter. We have experienced significant employee turnover, including in several key financial positions. If we are unable to attract and retain key employees, it may disrupt our ability to improve our financial controls, meet our reporting obligations and effectively manage our business. We depend on our employees and our ability to attract and retain key employees. We have recently experienced higher employee attrition, particularly in key financial positions. Our employee turnover in fiscal 2007 was 33% in total, including the voluntary resignation of 15% of our employees. We generally do not have employment contracts 12 Table of Contents with our employees and do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our employees. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our existing employees or attract additional qualified personnel in the future. If we are unable retain qualified employees and hire additional key employees, including a new chief financial officer and additional finance staff, it may adversely affect relationships with key customers, disrupt our ability to improve our financial controls, meet our reporting obligations and effectively manage our business. We have exposure to various foreign and domestic regulatory risks. Our failure to comply with governmental regulations could subject us to liability and additional expense. We have exposure to various risks related to new, existing and sometimes inconsistent laws, rules and regulations that have been or may in the future be enacted by legislative bodies or regulatory agencies in the countries in which we operate and with which we must comply. We are subject to a variety of laws of the United States and other countries related to the import and export of our products and technology, including shipments to South Korea, Taiwan, Japan and China. A failure to comply with these laws could subject us to additional expense and to civil and criminal liability. For example, in the first quarter of fiscal 2007, we recorded a liability of approximately $1.0 million as a result of our review of the our methodology for calculating certain customs duties in connection with the cross-border movements of warranty parts, in which we determined certain amounts had been underreported. In the third quarter of fiscal 2007, we began to voluntarily disclose our historical valuation practices to customs authorities in South Korea, Taiwan, Japan and China. As a result of this process, we currently estimate our total costs, including duties, penalties and interest as well as legal, accounting and other costs associated with the restatement, to be in the range of $11.0 million to $12.0 million. This updated estimate is based on both actual settlements with certain government agencies and our estimates of amounts that will be ultimately paid. We have not received waivers from any governmental agency and cannot guarantee that additional payment obligations will not arise related to these prior activities. The ultimate resolution of this matter or other matters could entail further expense in the form of duties, interest and penalties under applicable laws. We have not concluded any settlement with U.S. authorities with respect to our failure to make certain filings in connection with the export of warranty parts. We have commenced voluntary discussions with U.S. government agencies, including Customs, the Census Bureau and the Bureau of Industry and Security, regarding certain filing obligations that were not complied with in connection with our exports. Although the products in question were not restricted under export control laws and no fees were associated with these filings, the voluntary disclosure of our failure to comply with U.S. filing obligations may subject us to penalties and result in additional expenses, which could be material and the extent of which we are currently unable to estimate. In addition, from time to time we enter into transfer pricing arrangements with our subsidiaries to establish sales prices for internal distributions of goods that have the effect of allocating taxes between the parent corporation and our subsidiaries. In general, these transfer prices have not been approved by any governmental entity and, therefore, may be challenged by the applicable tax authorities. We employ a number of foreign nationals in our U.S. operations and, as a result, we are subject to various laws related to the status of those employees. We also send our U.S. employees to foreign countries from time to time and for varying durations of time to assist with our foreign operations. Depending on the durations of such arrangements, we may be required to withhold and pay personal income taxes in respect of the affected U.S. employees directly to the foreign tax authorities, and the affected U.S. employees may be required to register with various foreign governmental authorities. Our failure to comply with the foregoing laws and regulations or any other applicable laws and regulations could subject us to liability or the unfavorable treatment of our employees by immigration authorities. If our flat panel display products experience performance, reliability or quality problems, our customers may reduce their orders. We believe that future orders of our flat panel display products will depend in part on our ability to satisfy the performance, reliability and quality standards required by our customers. Particularly as customers seek increased yields, greater throughput and higher-quality end products, we must continually redesign our products to meet the needs of our customers. As with the introduction of any new product, our products may experience design and 13 Table of Contents reliability issues. For example, our original Generation 7 ArrayCheckertm and ArraySavertm systems required longer than anticipated time periods to bring them to full production due to design and reliability issues experienced by some of our customers. If our products have performance, reliability or quality problems, then we may experience: • delays in receiving final acceptance from our customers, which in turn delays recognition of the associated revenue; • cancellation of orders by customers; • assessment of penalties by customers; • delayed payment by customers; • renegotiation of our prices by customers; • reduced orders from our customers; • additional warranty and service expenses; and • higher manufacturing costs. If we are unable to meet the technological, performance and reliability requirements of our customers, our revenue may decrease and our business could be harmed. In addition, we typically provide a limited warranty on our flat panel display products for a period of 12 months from final acceptance by customers or 14 months from shipment, whichever is less. Actual warranty claims may, at times, exceed the estimated cost of warranty coverage we record in our warranty provision. For example, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, we agreed to replace two of the four original Generation 7 ArrayCheckertm test systems purchased by one customer with a newer version of our Generation 7 test systems under our warranty coverage of the purchased systems. Even though all four original Generation 7 systems were in full production, reliability and uptime issues had impacted the production capability of the fabrication lines in which they operated. The expected replacement of these systems resulted in additional warranty charges of approximately $3.0 million in the quarter ended September 30, 2006. Approximately $2.7 million of warranty liability associated with this exchange was satisfied during fiscal 2007 when the machines were replaced. Although we believe the problems associated with the two array test systems that were replaced were fixed in subsequent versions of our Generation 7 test systems, we may experience additional warranty costs on other products that are in excess of our estimated warranty costs. In the future, we may incur substantial warranty claim expenses on our products and actual warranty claims may exceed recorded provisions, resulting in harm to our business. Capital investment by manufacturers of flat panel display products can be highly cyclical and may decline in the future. Our flat panel display business depends in large part on capital expenditures by manufacturers of flat panel display products, which in turn depends on the current and anticipated market demand for the end products in that industry. The capital equipment procurement practices of flat panel display manufacturers has been highly cyclical. At the end of the first half of calendar year 2006, we saw an oversupply in the consumer market, causing manufacturers to respond by scaling back factory utilization rates and dropping panel average selling prices, which eroded the manufacturers’ profits. The majority of manufacturers scaled back their investment plans for calendar year 2007 as they evaluated television manufacturing costs, holiday season demand and consumer electronics market issues such as brand strength and high-definition programming formats and availability. When cyclical fluctuations result in lower than expected revenue levels, operating results may be adversely affected and cost reduction measures may be necessary in order for us to remain competitive and financially sound. During a down cycle, we must be in a position to rapidly adjust our costs and expense structure to prevailing market conditions and to continue to motivate and retain our key employees. Adjusting to a downcycle may cause us to reduce or realign our manufacturing capacity, which may result in asset impairment charges in our manufacturing facilities. In addition, during periods of rapid growth, we must be able to increase manufacturing capacity and personnel to meet customer demand. We can provide no assurance that these objectives can be met in a timely 14 Table of Contents manner in response to industry cycles. In addition, our need to invest in the engineering, research and development, and marketing required to penetrate targeted foreign markets and maintain extensive service and support capabilities limits our ability to reduce expenses during downturns. We depend on sales to a few large customers in the flat panel display industry, and if we lose any of our large customers our revenue could decrease significantly. The flat panel display industry is extremely concentrated with a small number of manufacturers producing the majority of the world’s glass panels for flat panel displays. If one or more of our major customers ceased or significantly curtailed their purchases, our revenue could drop significantly. We may be unable to replace sales to these customers. Sales to our greater than 10% customers in the last three fiscal years is as follows: four 10% customers accounted for 77% of our revenue in fiscal 2007; three 10% customers accounted for 76% of our revenue in fiscal 2006; and five 10% customers accounted for 67% of our revenue in fiscal 2005. None of our customers has entered into a long-term purchase agreement that would require the customer to purchase our products We rely upon sales of a limited range of flat panel display products, and if demand for one product decreases for any reason it could cause our revenue to decline significantly. The substantial majority of our revenue is expected to come from a limited range of products for the flat panel display industry. Although we are seeking to diversify our market base through the acquisition of Salvador Imaging, we currently expect revenue from the sales of our flat panel display product line to continue to constitute a majority of our revenue in the near future. As a result, we are highly reliant on the flat panel display industry. Any decline in demand for, or failure to achieve continued market acceptance of, our primary products or any new version of these products could harm our business. Continued market acceptance of our array test and array repair products is critical to our success. We generate the substantial majority of our revenue from the sale of our ArrayCheckertm and ArraySavertm test and repair equipment and customer support, which includes the sale of spare parts. In prior years we generated revenue from our PanelMastertm inspection equipment. However, in November 2006, we announced that we were discontinuing this product line. The discontinuation of our PanelMastertm product line increases our dependence on sales of our ArrayCheckertm and ArraySavertm product lines and further limits our range of products. We may not be able to develop and introduce new products that respond to evolving industry requirements in a timely manner, which could reduce our ability to compete effectively. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and frequent new product introductions. The failure to develop new products and introduce them successfully and in a timely manner could harm our competitive position and results of operations. We believe that our future success will depend in part upon our ability to continue to enhance our existing products and to develop and manufacture new products. For example, the size of glass substrates for flat panel displays and the resolution of flat panel displays have changed frequently and may continue to change, requiring us to redesign or reconfigure our flat panel display products. We expect to continue to incur significant research and development costs. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in the introduction, marketing and cost-effective manufacture of any of our new products, that we will be able to timely develop and introduce new products and enhance our existing products and processes to satisfy customer needs or achieve market acceptance, or that the new markets for which we are developing new products or expect to sell current products will develop sufficiently. In addition, we depend on close relationships with our customers and the willingness of those customers to share information with us, and the failure to maintain these relationships could harm our product development efforts. 15 Table of Contents If we are not able to receive sufficient parts to meet our production requirements, we may experience significant delays in producing our products, which could decrease our revenue for an extended period of time. We use a wide range of materials in the production of our products, including custom electronic and mechanical components, and we use numerous suppliers to supply these materials. We generally do not have guaranteed supply arrangements with our suppliers. Because of the variability and uniqueness of customers’ orders, we do not maintain an extensive inventory of material for manufacturing. Significant delays in receiving required materials could delay our shipments, subject us to penalties from our customers for late delivery of customer orders, harm our results of operations and damage customer relationships. In addition, we obtain some equipment for our systems from a single source or a limited group of suppliers. For example, we currently obtain material handling platforms, PCI boards, certain laser assemblies and certain pellicle products from single source suppliers. Although we seek to reduce dependence on sole and limited source suppliers, alternative sources of supply for this equipment remain unavailable or may only be available on unfavorable terms. The partial or complete loss of our sole and limited source suppliers could significantly delay our shipments or otherwise harm our results of operations and damage customer relationships. Further, a significant increase in the price of one or more of these pieces of equipment by a single or limited source supplier could harm our results of operations. Substantially all of our revenue from flat panel display products is derived from sales to companies located outside the United States, which exposes us to risks that we would not experience with domestic sales. We expect sales to flat panel display customers in foreign countries to continue to represent nearly all of our revenue in the foreseeable future. A number of factors may adversely affect our international sales and operations, including: • political instability and the possibility of hostilities, terrorist attacks, or war; • imposition of governmental controls; • fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates; • customs and export and import license requirements; • restrictions on the export of technology; • limited foreign protection of intellectual property rights; • periodic local or international downturns; • decreases in productivity, temporary plant shutdowns or infrastructure service disruptions resulting from widespread health alerts including Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (“SARS”) and warnings of an avian flu pandemic; • changes in tariffs; and • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations. If any of these factors occur, our operating results and revenue could be materially and adversely affected. Our customer qualification and sales cycle is lengthy and unpredictable and requires us to incur substantial costs to make a sale, and if we fail to make a sale, our increased expenses may lead to lower profit margins. Our flat panel display customers typically expend significant time and effort evaluating and qualifying our products and manufacturing process prior to placing an order. This evaluation and qualification process frequently results in a lengthy sales cycle, typically ranging from nine to twelve months and sometimes longer. During the period that our customers are evaluating our products and before they place an order with us, we may incur substantial sales, marketing and research and development expenses, expend significant management efforts, increase manufacturing capacity and order long lead-time supplies. Even after this evaluation process, it is possible 16 Table of Contents that a potential customer will not purchase our products. We expect that our High-Performance Digital Imaging segment will also be characterized by lengthy sales cycles as we anticipate that customers in the defense, security and medical industries will also generally expend significant time and effort evaluating our products and processes prior to placing an order. In addition, our customers’ purchases of our products are frequently subject to unplanned delays and rescheduling, particularly with respect to larger customers for which our products represent a very small percentage of their overall purchase activity. Unplanned delays in the purchase or installation of our products have occurred in the past, and may continue to occur, as a result of delays in the installation of other manufacturers’ equipment at a customer’s facilities. Long sales cycles may cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly and unexpectedly from quarter to quarter, which could cause volatility in our stock price. Our ability to efficiently and effectively implement our strategy of using both domestic and outsourced offshore manufacturing may impact our profitability. Our ability to successfully compete in our current flat panel display markets may be determined in part by our ability to efficiently and effectively implement our strategy of using both domestic and offshore manufacturing. Our offshore manufacturing facilities may at times create excess capacity in our domestic manufacturing facilities which may in turn cause an increase in costs due to the under-utilization of our San Jose facilities. If our offshore manufacturing strategy is successful, we may increase our offshore capacity and move additional manufacturing offshore. This new offshore strategy contributed to an approximately $2.8 million impairment charge we recorded in the quarter ended March 31, 2007 as a result of excess capacity in one of our remaining domestic manufacturing facilities. If we continue to be successful in executing our offshore manufacturing strategy, it may result in additional asset impairment charges by creating excess capacity in our domestic manufacturing facilities. In addition, a number of factors may adversely affect our existing international manufacturing operations and ability to execute our offshore manufacturing strategy, including: • political instability and the possibility of hostilities, terrorist attacks, or war; • imposition of governmental controls; • fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates; • limited foreign protection of intellectual property rights; • trade restrictions; • periodic or local international downturns; • decreases in productivity, temporary plant shutdowns or infrastructure service disruptions resulting from widespread health alerts such as those relating to SARS and avian flu outbreaks; and • difficulties in staffing and managing international manufacturing. If any of these factors occur, our operating results and revenue could be materially and adversely affected. Any failure of, or other problems at or with, our third party manufacturers could delay shipments of our products, harm our relationships with our customers or otherwise negatively impact our business. We use a wide range of materials in the production of our products, including custom electronic and mechanical components, and we use numerous suppliers to supply these materials. If any third party that we use to manufacture our products is unable to satisfy our quality requirements or provide us with the products and services in a timely manner, our shipments of these products may be delayed, our customer relationships may be harmed and our results of operations may be adversely impacted. There can be no assurance that our relationship with any third party that we use to manufacture our products will result in a reduction of our expenses or enable us to satisfy our customers’ quality requirements or to deliver our products to our customers in a timely manner. 17 Table of Contents If we do not compete effectively in our target markets, we will lose market share. The markets in which we compete are highly competitive. We face substantial competition from established competitors that have greater financial, engineering and manufacturing resources than us and have larger service organizations and long-standing customer relationships. Our competitors can be expected to continue to improve the design and performance of their products and to introduce new products with competitive price and performance characteristics. Competitive pressures may force price reductions that could harm our results of operations. Our customers may also develop technology and equipment that may reduce or eliminate their need to purchase our products. Although we believe we have certain technological and other advantages over our competitors, maintaining and capitalizing on these advantages will require us to continue a high level of investment in engineering, research and development, marketing and customer service support. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make these investments or that we will be able to make the technological advances necessary to maintain our competitive advantages. Our success depends in large part on the strength of active matrix liquid crystal display technology in the flat panel display industry. While our technology is applicable to other flat panel display technologies, our experience has been focused on applications for active matrix liquid crystal displays, the most prevalent and one of the highest performance flat panel displays available today. We derive a substantial majority of our revenue from flat panel display products, substantially all of which are based on the active matrix liquid crystal display technology. An industry shift away from active matrix liquid crystal display technology to existing or new competing technologies could reduce the demand for our existing products and require significant expenditures to develop new products, each of which could harm our business. For example, if the AMLCD television market has a significant shift to plasma technology, it would negatively affect LCD manufacturers’ fab planning and our business would be negatively impacted. We may have difficulty integrating businesses or assets that we have acquired or developed in new ventures and may acquire or develop in the future, and we may not realize the benefits that we expect from these acquisitions and new ventures. In addition to our efforts to develop new technologies from internal sources, we also may seek to acquire new technologies from external sources or partner with other companies to develop new technologies. As a part of this effort, we may make additional acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses with complementary products, services and/or technologies. For example, in the fourth quarter of our fiscal 2007 we purchased Salvador Imaging, through which we will seek to develop highly sensitive color and monochrome cameras that can be used to provide daytime and nighttime surveillance capabilities for the military and security markets, and unique inspection capabilities in industrial applications. Integrating a business can be a complex, time-consuming and expensive process. If we are not able to do so effectively, we will not be able to realize the benefits that we expect to receive from either our past or future acquisitions and new ventures. For each acquisition or new venture, we must integrate separate technologies, product lines, business cultures and practices, employees and systems. Acquisitions and new ventures are subject to numerous risks, including: • difficulty in the assimilation of the technologies and products; • entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience; • loss of key customers; • diversion of management resources; • incompatibility of business cultures or practices; • loss of key employees; • costs and delays in implementing common systems and procedures; • potential inefficiencies in delivering services to customers; and • assumption of unknown or undisclosed liabilities. 18 Table of Contents Any of these difficulties could increase our operating costs or result in impairment of purchased assets, which could harm our financial performance. In addition, we may also elect to change our strategic direction and may no longer have need for the acquired businesses or new technologies. For example, in fiscal 2007 we stopped funding NB Digital, which we acquired in November 2002 and which subsequently went into bankruptcy and ceased operations. In the third quarter of fiscal 2004, we sold all of our assets related to our TFT-LCD backlight inverter business acquired in September 2002. In 2003, we exited the printed circuit board assembly, cathode ray tube display and high quality glass inspection businesses. As a result, some or all of the technologies acquired in connection with certain of our prior acquisitions have been abandoned. Future acquisitions may also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and amortization expenses related to acquired intangible assets, which could harm our profitability. We may never achieve or sustain profitability in our High-Performance Digital Imaging business segment. We commenced operations in our High-Performance Digital Imaging segment with our acquisition of Salvador Imaging in July 2007. Because we have limited experience in this market segment, it is difficult for us to predict our operating results and the ultimate size of the market for our products. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in the introduction, marketing and cost-effective manufacture of any new products, that we will be able to develop and introduce new products on a timely basis, that we will be able to scale our operations from the current low volumes to more substantial commercial volumes, or that we will be able to enhance our existing products to satisfy customer needs. We expect operating expenses for this segment to increase over the next several years as we hire additional sales and marketing personnel and develop our technology and new products. In future periods, revenues could decline and, accordingly, we may not be able to achieve profitability in this segment. Even if we do achieve profitability in this segment, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a consistent basis. If the products developed within our High-Performance Digital Imaging segment become successful, we may derive a significant portion of our revenue from customers that receive their funding for our products from U.S. government contracts, which are subject to unique risks. The defense industry is the chief market for products within our High-Performance Digital Imaging segment. If we are successful in developing and marketing our products in the segment, we may significantly increase our revenue derived directly or indirectly from U.S. government contracts awarded to our customers or us under various U.S. government programs. The funding of such programs is subject to the overall U.S. government budget and appropriation decisions and processes which are driven by numerous factors, including geo-political events and macroeconomic conditions that are beyond our control. In addition to normal business risks, contracts involving the U.S. government are subject to unique risks, including the following, which may be beyond our control. The funding of U.S. government programs is subject to congressional appropriations. Many of the U.S. government programs in which we or our customers may participate could extend for several years; however, these programs are normally funded annually. Long-term government contracts and related orders are subject to cancellation if appropriations for subsequent performance periods are not made. If we or our customers are successful in participating in a U.S. government program, the termination of funding for that U.S. government program would result in a loss of anticipated future revenues attributable to that program. The U.S. government would have the ability to modify, curtail or terminate contracts. The U.S. government may modify, curtail or terminate its contracts and subcontracts without prior notice at its convenience upon payment for work done and commitments made at the time of termination. Because our customers will likely depend on contracts with the U.S. government, modification, curtailment or termination of their contracts with the U.S. government could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our contract costs would be subject to audits by U.S. government agencies. U.S. government representatives could have the right to audit the costs that we incur in connection with work performed as a subcontractor under a 19 Table of Contents U.S. government contract, including allocated indirect costs. If an audit were to uncover improper or illegal activities, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions. Our business could be subject to potential U.S. government inquiries and investigations. If we are successful in participating directly or indirectly in a U.S. government program, we would be subject to U.S. government inquiries and investigations of our business practices upon any findings of potential improprieties due to our participation in government contracts. Any such inquiry or investigation could potentially result in an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Contracts with the U.S. government would be subject to specific procurement regulations and other requirements affecting us or our customers. These requirements, although customary in U.S. government contracts, may increase our performance and compliance costs, which could have a negative effect on our financial condition. Our ability to do business with government contractors would be dependent on complying with various registration and licensing requirements, such as the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) certification that we recently received for our High-Performance Digital Imaging business. Certain of our high-performance digital imaging cameras are subject to other restrictions and requirements under U.S. laws and regulations. Failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could cause our licenses or permits to be revoked or suspended, or lead to suspension or debarment, for cause, from U.S. government contracting or subcontracting. Certain U.S. government programs are subject to security classification restrictions on information. We may participate in programs that are subject to security classification restrictions (“restricted business”), which could limit our ability to discuss details about these programs, their risks or any disputes or claims relating to such programs. As a result, investors might have less insight into our restricted business than other businesses of the company or could experience less ability to evaluate fully the risks, disputes or claims associated with such restricted business. Our business could be harmed if we fail to properly protect our intellectual property. Our success depends largely on our ability to protect our intellectual property. While we attempt to protect our intellectual property through patents, copyrights and trade secrets in the United States and other countries, there can be no assurance that we will successfully protect our technology or that competitors will not be able to develop similar technology independently. We cannot assure you that the claims allowed on any patents held by us will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology against competition from third parties with similar technologies or products. In addition, we cannot assure you that any patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that the rights granted there-under will provide competitive advantages to us. Moreover, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and we could experience various obstacles and high costs in protecting our intellectual property rights in foreign countries, including South Korea, where we recently announced our lease of a new manufacturing facility. If we are unable to obtain or maintain these protections, we may not be able to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property. We also rely on trade secrets, proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation to remain competitive. We have taken measures to protect our trade secrets and know-how, including the use of confidentiality agreements with our employees. However, it is possible that these agreements may be breached and that the available remedies for any breach will not be sufficient to compensate us for damages incurred. Litigation may be necessary to enforce or defend against claims of intellectual property infringement, which could be expensive and, if we lose, could prevent us from selling our products. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Any litigation, regardless of the outcome, could be costly and require significant time and attention of key members of our management and technical personnel. Our domestic and international competitors, many of which have substantially greater resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, may have patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with 20 Table of Contents our ability to manufacture and sell our products. We have not conducted a comprehensive independent review of patents issued to third parties. Third parties may assert infringement claims, successful or otherwise, against us, and litigation may be necessary to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. An adverse outcome in the defense of a patent suit could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties or require us to cease selling our products. Even successful defenses of patent suits can be costly and time-consuming. Our corporate offices and manufacturing facilities and our customers’ manufacturing facilities may be subject to disruption from natural disasters. Operations at our corporate offices and manufacturing facilities are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including work stoppages, acts of war, terrorism, fire, earthquake, energy shortages, flooding or other natural disasters. Our corporate offices and manufacturing facilities in California are located near major earthquake faults, which have experienced earthquakes in the past. The manufacturing facilities that we increasingly rely on in Asia are also subject to similar disruptions. Such disruptions could cause delays in shipments of products to our customers. We cannot ensure that alternate production capacity would be available if a major disruption were to occur or that, if it were available, it could be obtained on favorable terms. Such disruptions could result in cancellation of orders or loss of customers and could seriously harm our business. It could also significantly delay our research and engineering efforts for the development of new products, most of which is conducted at our California facilities. Operations at our customers’ manufacturing facilities are subject to the same disruptions that may affect our facilities. Any such disruption could result in the delay of scheduled delivery dates for products ordered by affected customers, the cancellation of existing orders, and the delay of future orders, all of which could seriously harm our business. We rely upon certain critical information systems for our daily business operation. Our inability to use or access these information systems at critical points in time could unfavorably impact the timeliness and efficiency of our business operation. Our global operations are linked by information systems, including telecommunications, the internet, our corporate intranet, network communications, email and various computer hardware and software applications. Despite our network security measures, our products, tools and servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems and with our products at customer sites. Any such event could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. We may experience difficulties with our enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system and other IT systems. System failure or malfunctioning may result in disruption of operations and the inability to process transactions, and this could adversely affect our financial results. System failure or malfunctioning could disrupt our ability to timely and accurately process and report key components of the results of our consolidated operations, our financial position and cash flows. Any disruptions or difficulties that may occur in connection with our ERP system or other systems could also adversely affect our ability to complete important business processes such as the evaluation of our internal controls and attestation activities pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If we encounter unforeseen problems with regard to our ERP system or other systems, our business could be adversely affected. RISKS RELATING TO OWNING OUR COMMON STOCK Our stock price may fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly in response to variations in quarterly operating results and other factors, such as: • the need to restate our consolidated financial statements; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or by our competitors; 21 Table of Contents • failure to comply with government regulations; • developments in patent or other property rights; and • developments in our relationships with our customers. In addition, the stock market has in recent years experienced significant price fluctuations. These fluctuations often have been unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies whose stock is traded. Broad market fluctuations, general economic condition and specific conditions in the flat panel display industry may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Some anti-takeover provisions may affect the price of our common stock. Our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The board also has the authority to determine the price, rights, preferences and privileges, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by the shareholders. The rights of our shareholders will be subject to, and may be impaired by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. These and other provisions contained in our charter documents and applicable provisions of California law could serve to depress our stock price or discourage a hostile bid in which shareholders could receive a premium for their shares. In addition, these provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock or otherwise effect a change in control of us. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock and do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Instead, we intend to apply any earnings to the expansion and development of our business. RISKS RELATING TO OUR RESTATEMENTS AND RELATED MATTERS Our current restatement of our consolidated financial statements and related events, as well as possible future restatements, may have a material adverse effect on our business. As described in Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Part II, Item 9A. “Controls and Procedures” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have restated our financial results for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2003 through 2006. Our customers, suppliers, investors and current and prospective employees may react negatively to the restatement, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. As long as we continue to have one or more unremediated material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we may in the future identify additional reasons to restate our financial results. Furthermore, the threshold for causing us to restate financial information in the future is potentially very low in the current regulatory environment due in part to the fact that we currently, and in the near future, expect to operate at close to break-even levels of earnings or loss. If, as a result of any of the matters described above, we are required to amend this report or restate certain of our financial information, it may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we do not comply with the requirements of NASDAQ, our common stock may be delisted from the NASDAQ National Market. We have received letters from the staff of NASDAQ stating that, as a result of the delayed filings of our June 30, 2007 Form 10-Q and our September 30, 2007 Form 10-K we are subject to delisting from the NASDAQ National Market. To date, NASDAQ has granted an exception to the listing requirement, pending further review, and subject to us filing our delinquent reports by specified dates. However, there can be no assurance that the Listing Council will decide to allow our common stock to remain listed on the NASDAQ National Market. In addition, if the SEC disagrees with the manner in which we have accounted for the financial impact of the restatement, we could experience further delays in filing subsequent SEC reports that could result in delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ National Market. 22 Table of Contents If our common stock is delisted from the NASDAQ National Market, it would subsequently trade on the Pink Sheets, which may reduce the price of the our common stock and the liquidity available to our stockholders. In addition, the trading of our common stock on the Pink Sheets would materially adversely affect our access to the capital markets, and the limited liquidity and potentially reduced price of our common stock could materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital through alternative financing sources on terms acceptable to the company or at all. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 