Risk Factors — Our operating results have fluctuated in the past, and we expect such fluctuations to continue,” we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may not be necessarily meaningful. Accordingly, you should not rely on our annual and quarterly results of operations as any indication of future performance. In addition, it is possible that in some future period our operating results will be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors or the guidance we have provided. In such event, the price of our Common Stock may be materially adversely affected. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 of this Form 10-K. 31 Table of Contents While we believe we currently have adequate internal control over financial reporting, we are required to assess our internal control over financial reporting on an annual basis and any future adverse results from such assessment could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, (“Section 404”) and the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC to implement Section 404, we are required to include in our Form 10-K an annual report by our management regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The report includes, among other things, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. Management’s assessment of internal controls over financial reporting requires management to make subjective judgments and, because this requirement to provide a management report is newly effective, some of our judgments will be in areas that may be open to interpretation. Therefore our management report may be uniquely difficult to prepare and our auditors, who are required to issue an audit report along with our management’s report, may not agree with management’s assessments. While we currently believe our internal control over financial reporting is effective, the effectiveness of our internal controls to future periods is subject to the risk that our controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, and, as a result, the degree of compliance of our internal control over financial reporting with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in any future period (or if our auditors are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have an adverse effect on our stock price. We are subject to risks caused by the availability and cost of insurance. Changing conditions in the insurance industry have affected most areas of corporate insurance. These changes have in the past and may in the future result in higher premium costs, higher deductibles and lower insurance coverage limits. Due to these factors, we have elected to self-insure certain risks. For example, we do not carry earthquake insurance due to its high cost. 