Item 1A. Risk Factors We have sustained losses and we may sustain losses in the future. Although we reported net income for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006 and 2004, we have reported a net loss for each of the fiscal years ended September 30, 2005, 2003 and 2002. In the future our revenue may decline, remain flat or grow at a rate slower than expected. We are currently expecting lower levels of bookings and revenues in our first quarter of fiscal 2007 due to recently announced factory investment delays by our customers, as discussed in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our ability to achieve and maintain profitability is dependent in part on the success of our efforts to increase revenues and to reduce operating expenses as a percentage of revenue through our ongoing cost-cutting measures and our gross margin improvement programs. Although we expect the current oversupply in the flat panel display market to correct itself and our customers to resume increasing manufacturing capacity, if demand for our products is not sustained and we do not react quickly to reduce discretionary and variable spending, this would impair our ability to achieve profitability on a going-forward basis. For all of these reasons, there is no assurance that we will be successful in achieving or maintaining increased revenue, reduced operating expenses, positive cash flows or profitability. Our operating results are difficult to predict and may vary from investors’ expectations, which could cause our stock price to fall. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, significant fluctuations in our quarterly results. Consequently, past financial results may not be indicative of future financial results. A substantial percentage of our revenue is derived from the sale of a small number of yield management systems that ranged in price from approximately $350,000 to $2.8 million in fiscal 2006. Therefore, the timing of, and recognition of revenue from, 12 Table of Contents the sale of a single system could have a significant impact on our quarterly results. After we ship our products, customers may reject or delay acceptance, which would adversely impact our revenues and our stock price. Moreover, customers may cancel or reschedule shipments, and production difficulties could delay shipments. Other factors which may influence our operating results in a particular quarter include: • the timing of the receipt of orders from major customers; • the delay or extension of firm orders; • the receipt of final acceptance on new products; • our product mix; • competitive pricing pressures; • our ability to obtain components from our single or limited source suppliers in a timely manner; • our ability to effectively implement our strategy of domestic and offshore manufacturing; • global economic uncertainty; • changing international economic conditions; • the outcome of the appeal of litigation with a former executive officer; • worldwide political instability; • our ability to design, manufacture and introduce new products on a cost-effective and timely basis; • the delay between expenses to further develop marketing and service capabilities and the realization of benefits from those improved capabilities; and • the introduction of new products by our competitors. Our operating results also could be affected by sudden changes in customer requirements, currency exchange rate fluctuations and other economic conditions affecting customer demand and the cost of operations in the global markets in which we do business. As a result of these or other factors, our operating results could be significantly and adversely affected and our stock price could decline. In addition, it is possible that in some future quarter our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to fall. If our products experience performance, reliability or quality problems, our customers may reduce their orders. We believe that future orders of our products will depend in part on our ability to satisfy the performance, reliability and quality standards required by our customers. Particularly as customers seek increased yields, greater throughput and higher quality end products, we must continually redesign our products to meet the needs of our customers. As with the introduction of any new product, our products may experience design and reliability issues. For example, our original Generation 7 ArrayCheckertm and ArraySavertm systems required longer than anticipated time periods to bring them to full production due to design and reliability issues experienced by some of our customers. If our products have performance, reliability or quality problems, then we may experience: • delays in receiving final acceptance, which in turn delays recognition of the associated revenue; • delays in collecting accounts receivable; • reduced orders; • additional warranty and service expenses; and • higher manufacturing costs. 13 Table of Contents If we are unable to meet the technological, performance and reliability requirements of our customers, our revenue may decrease and our business could be harmed. In addition, we typically provide a limited warranty on our products for a period of one year from final acceptance by customers. Warranty claim experience may, at times, exceed the estimated cost of warranty coverage we record in our warranty provision. For example, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, we agreed to replace two of the four original Generation 7 ArrayCheckertm test systems purchased by one customer with a newer version of our Generation 7 test systems under our warranty coverage of the purchased systems. Even though all four original Generation 7 systems have been in full production, reliability and uptime issues have impacted the production capability of the fabrication lines in which they operate. The expected replacement of these systems resulted in additional warranty charges of approximately $3.0 million in the quarter ended September 30, 2006. Although we believe the problems associated with the two array test systems scheduled to be replaced were fixed in subsequent versions of our Generation 7 test systems, we may experience additional warranty costs on other products that are in excess of our estimated warranty costs. In the future, we may incur substantial warranty claim expenses on our products and actual warranty claims may exceed recorded provisions, resulting in harm to our business. Capital investment by manufacturers of flat panel display products can be highly cyclical and may decline in the future. Our business depends in large part on capital expenditures by manufacturers of flat panel display products, which in turn depends on the current and anticipated market demand for the end products in that industry. The market for flat panel display products is highly cyclical and has experienced periods of oversupply resulting in significantly reduced demand for capital equipment. In the last half of calendar year 2005, market indicators showed that AMLCD consumer demand rose and continued rising into calendar year 2006 as a result of significantly reduced panel prices. However, at the end of the first half of calendar year 2006, we once again saw an oversupply, causing manufacturers to respond by scaling back factory utilization rates and dropping panel average selling prices, which have eroded the manufacturers’ profits. If the flat panel display markets in which we sell our products experience further slowdowns in the future, as we are currently experiencing in the first half of our fiscal 2007, it could cause our revenue to decrease significantly. We do not control the timing or volume of orders placed by our customers. Whether and to what extent our customers place orders for any specific products, as well as the mix and quantities of products included in those orders, are factors beyond our control. Insufficient orders will result in under-utilization of our manufacturing facilities and infrastructure and will negatively affect our operating results and financial condition. In addition, the need to invest in the engineering, research and development, and marketing required to penetrate targeted foreign markets and maintain extensive service and support capabilities limits our ability to reduce expenses during these downturns. We depend on sales to a few large customers in the flat panel display industry, and if we lose any of our large customers our revenue could decrease significantly. The flat panel display industry is extremely concentrated with a small number of manufacturers producing the majority of the world’s flat panel displays. If one or more of our major customers ceased or significantly curtailed their purchases, our revenue could drop significantly. We may be unable to replace sales to these customers. Sales to our greater than 10% customers in the last three fiscal years is as follows: our top three customers accounted for 76% of our revenue in fiscal 2006; our top five customers accounted for 67% of our revenue in fiscal 2005; and our top four customers accounted for 72% of our revenue in fiscal 2004. None of our customers have entered into long-term purchase agreements that would require them to purchase our products We rely upon sales of a limited range of products, and if demand for one product decreases for any reason it could cause our revenue to decline significantly. All of our revenue is expected to come from a limited range of products for the flat panel display industry. As a result, we are solely reliant on the flat panel display industry. Any decline in demand for, or failure to achieve 14 Table of Contents continued market acceptance of, our primary products or any new version of these products could harm our business. Continued market acceptance of our array test and array repair products is critical to our success. We generate revenue from the sales of our ArrayCheckertm and ArraySavertm test and repair equipment, our PanelMastertm inspection equipment, and customer support, which includes the sales of spare parts. On November 16, 2006, we announced that while we will continue to support the current installed base of our PanelMastertm product line, we are discontinuing the product line and will no longer pursue new business for PanelMastertm systems, upgrades or enhancements. Introduced at the end of fiscal 2004, adoption of our inspection equipment was slower than we expected. Revenue from our PanelMastertm products represented approximately 6%, 6% and 0% of total revenue in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively and was not considered one of our primary products. However, the discontinuation of our PanelMastertm product line increases our dependence on sales of our ArrayCheckertm and ArraySavertm product lines and further limits our range of products. In addition, while we will continue to support installed PanelMastertm systems, our relationship with PanelMastertm customers may be harmed by our decision to discontinue upgrades and enhancements to the product line, which may affect future orders of our ArrayCheckertm and ArraySavertm systems. We may not be able to develop and introduce new products that respond to evolving industry requirements in a timely manner, which could reduce our ability to compete effectively. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and frequent new product introductions. The failure to develop new products and introduce them successfully and in a timely manner could harm our competitive position and results of operations. We believe that our future success will depend in part upon our ability to continue to enhance our existing products and to develop and manufacture new products. For example, the size of glass plates for flat panel displays and the resolution of flat panel displays have changed frequently and may continue to change, requiring us to redesign or reconfigure our flat panel display products. We expect to continue to incur significant research and development costs. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in the introduction, marketing and cost-effective manufacture of any of our new products, that we will be able to timely develop and introduce new products and enhance our existing products and processes to satisfy customer needs or achieve market acceptance, or that the new markets for which we are developing new products or expect to sell current products will develop sufficiently. In addition, we depend on close relationships with our customers and the willingness of those customers to share information with us, and the failure to maintain these relationships could harm our product development efforts. If we are not able to obtain critical components from our single or limited source suppliers, we may experience significant delays in producing our products, which could decrease our revenue for an extended period of time. We obtain some equipment for our systems from a single source or a limited group of suppliers. For example, we currently obtain material handling platforms, certain laser assemblies and certain pellicle products from single source suppliers. Although we seek to reduce dependence on sole and limited source suppliers, alternative sources of supply for this equipment remain unavailable or may only be available on unfavorable terms. The partial or complete loss of our sole and limited source suppliers could significantly delay our shipments or otherwise harm our results of operations and damage customer relationships. Further, a significant increase in the price of one or more of these pieces of equipment by a single or limited source supplier could harm our results of operations. All of our revenue is derived from sales to companies located outside the United States, which exposes us to risks that we would not experience with domestic sales. We expect sales to customers in foreign countries to continue to represent 100% of our revenue in the foreseeable future. A number of factors may adversely affect our international sales and operations, including: • political instability and the possibility of hostilities, terrorist attacks, or war; • imposition of governmental controls; 15 Table of Contents • fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates; • export license requirements; • restrictions on the export of technology; • limited foreign protection of intellectual property rights; • trade restrictions; • periodic or local international downturns; • decreases in productivity, temporary plant shutdowns or infrastructure service disruptions resulting from widespread health alerts including Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (“SARS”) and warnings of an Avian Flu pandemic; • changes in tariffs; and • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations. If any of these factors occur, our operating results and revenue could be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to efficiently and effectively implement our strategy of using both domestic and offshore manufacturing may impact our profitability. Our ability to successfully compete in our current markets may be determined in part by our ability to efficiently and effectively implement our strategy of using both domestic and offshore manufacturing. Our offshore manufacturing facilities may at times create excess capacity in our domestic manufacturing facilities which may in turn cause an increase in costs due to the under-utilization of our San Jose facilities. If our offshore manufacturing strategy is successful, we may increase our offshore capacity and move additional manufacturing offshore. An expansion of capacity overseas may cause us to reduce or realign our domestic manufacturing capacity. If we are successful in executing our offshore manufacturing strategy, it may result in asset impairment charges by creating excess capacity in our domestic manufacturing facilities. In addition, a number of factors may adversely affect our international manufacturing operations, including: • political instability and the possibility of hostilities, terrorist attacks, or war; • imposition of governmental controls; • fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates; • limited foreign protection of intellectual property rights; • trade restrictions; • periodic or local international downturns; • decreases in productivity, temporary plant shutdowns or infrastructure service disruptions resulting from widespread health alerts including SARS and warnings of an Avian Flu pandemic; and • difficulties in staffing and managing international manufacturing. If any of these factors occur, our operating results and revenue could be materially and adversely affected. Any failure of, or other problems at or with, our third party manufacturers could delay shipments of our flat panel display products, harm our relationships with our customers or otherwise negatively impact our business. We use a wide range of materials in the production of our products, including custom electronic and mechanical components, and we use numerous suppliers to supply these materials. If any third party that we use to manufacture our products is unable to satisfy our quality requirements or provide us with the products and services in a timely manner, our shipments of these products may be delayed, our customer relationships may be harmed and 16 Table of Contents our results of operations may be adversely impacted. There can be no assurance that our relationship with any third party that we use to manufacture our products will result in a reduction of our expenses or enable us to satisfy our customers’ quality requirements or to deliver our products to our customers in a timely manner. If we do not compete effectively in our target markets, we will lose market share. The markets for yield management systems in the flat panel display industry are highly competitive. We face substantial competition from established competitors that have greater financial, engineering and manufacturing resources than us and have larger service organizations and long-standing customer relationships. Our competitors can be expected to continue to improve the design and performance of their products and to introduce new products with competitive price and performance characteristics. Competitive pressures may force price reductions that could harm our results of operations. Our customers may also develop technology and equipment that may reduce or eliminate their need to purchase our products. Although we believe we have certain technological and other advantages over our competitors, maintaining and capitalizing on these advantages will require us to continue a high level of investment in engineering, research and development, marketing and customer service support. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make these investments or that we will be able to make the technological advances necessary to maintain our competitive advantages. Our success depends in large part on the strength of the active matrix liquid crystal display in the flat panel display industry. While our technology is applicable to other flat panel display technologies, our experience has been focused on applications for active matrix liquid crystal displays, the most prevalent and one of the highest performance flat panel displays available today. We derive 100% of our revenue from flat panel display products, substantially all of which were based on the active matrix liquid crystal display technology. An industry shift away from active matrix liquid crystal display technology to existing or new competing technologies could reduce the demand for our existing products and require significant expenditures to develop new products, each of which could harm our business. For example, if the emerging AMLCD Television market has a significant shift to plasma technology, LCD manufacturers’ fab planning and Photon Dynamics business would be negatively impacted. We may have difficulty integrating the businesses or assets we have acquired and may acquire in the future, and we may not realize the benefits that we expect from these acquisitions. In addition to our efforts to develop new technologies from internal sources, we also may seek to acquire new technologies from external sources. As a part of this effort, we may make additional acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses with complementary products, services and/or technologies. Integrating a business can be a complex, time-consuming and expensive process. If we are not able to do so effectively, we will not be able to realize the benefits that we expect to receive from either our past or future acquisitions. For each acquisition, we must integrate separate technologies, product lines, business cultures and practices, employees and systems. Acquisitions are subject to numerous risks, including: • difficulty in the assimilation of the technologies and products of the acquired company; • entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience; • loss of key customers of the acquired company; • diversion of management resources from the business of the combined company; • incompatibility of business cultures or practices; • loss of key employees of the acquired company; • costs and delays in implementing common systems and procedures; • potential inefficiencies in delivering services to the customers of the combined company; and • assumption of unknown or undisclosed liabilities. 17 Table of Contents Any of these difficulties could increase our operating costs or result in impairment of purchased assets, which could harm our financial performance. In addition, we may also elect to change our strategic direction and may no longer have need for the acquired businesses or technologies. For example, in 2004 we determined not to pursue new business for RTP Systems acquired in November 2002. In the third quarter of fiscal 2004, we sold all of our assets related to our TFT-LCD backlight inverter business acquired in September 2002. In 2003, we exited the printed circuit board assembly inspection and the cathode ray tube display and high quality glass inspection businesses. As a result, some or all of the technologies acquired in connection with certain of our prior acquisitions have been abandoned. Future acquisitions may also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and amortization expenses related to acquired intangible assets, which could harm our profitability. Compliance with new reporting requirements may strain our resources and we may be unable to implement in a timely manner additional finance and accounting systems, procedures and controls in the future to satisfy new reporting requirements, which could cause our stock price to fall. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to perform an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and have our independent registered public accounting firm publicly attest to such evaluation, as discussed in Part II, Item 9A. “Controls and Procedures” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. During each of the fiscal years 2005, 2004 and 2003 we had one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. We have successfully remediated each of these control weaknesses. However, there is no guarantee that our internal control over financial reporting will continue to be adequate to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of our financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting standards, or that our independent registered public accounting firm will concur with our assessments in the future. Preparation for and compliance with these requirements has been, and we expect it will continue to be, expensive and time-consuming. Due to the numerous material weaknesses in the past that we have remediated, our compliance costs have been particularly expensive and time consuming. In the future, if we are unable to complete the required assessment as to the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, we could be subject to further regulatory scrutiny and a further loss of public confidence in our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligation and potentially result in a decline of our stock price. We have previously disclosed material weaknesses in our internal controls and additionally have restated both our fiscal 2004 annual results of operations and financial condition and our quarterly results of operations and financial condition for both the first and the third quarters of fiscal 2005. Although we committed significant resources to remediate these weaknesses, there can be no assurances that material weaknesses will not occur in the future. Accordingly, to the extent these material weaknesses may reoccur in the future or new material weaknesses may be found to exist, these material weaknesses may have a significant negative effect on our company and our results of operations, or result in a failure to meet our reporting obligations. Our business could be harmed if we fail to properly protect our intellectual property. Our success depends largely on our ability to protect our intellectual property. While we attempt to protect our intellectual property through patents, copyrights and trade secrets in the United States and other countries, there can be no assurance that we will successfully protect our technology or that competitors will not be able to develop similar technology independently. We cannot assure you that the claims allowed on any patents held by us will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology against competition from third parties with similar technologies or products. In addition, we cannot assure you that any patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that the rights granted there-under will provide competitive advantages to us. Moreover, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and we could experience various obstacles and high costs in protecting our intellectual property rights in foreign countries, including South Korea, where we recently announced our lease of a new manufacturing facility. If we are 18 Table of Contents unable to obtain or maintain these protections, we may not be able to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property. We also rely on trade secrets, proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation to remain competitive. We have taken measures to protect our trade secrets and know-how, including the use of confidentiality agreements with our employees. However, it is possible that these agreements may be breached and that the available remedies for any breach will not be sufficient to compensate us for damages incurred. Litigation may be necessary to enforce or defend against claims of intellectual property infringement, which could be expensive and, if we lose, could prevent us from selling our products. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Any litigation, regardless of the outcome, could be costly and require significant time and attention of key members of our management and technical personnel. Our domestic and international competitors, many of which have substantially greater resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, may have patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to manufacture and sell our products. We have not conducted a comprehensive independent review of patents issued to third parties. Third parties may assert infringement claims, successful or otherwise, against us, and litigation may be necessary to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. An adverse outcome in the defense of a patent suit could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties or require us to cease selling our products. Even successful defenses of patent suits can be costly and time-consuming. We must attract and retain key employees and our management team and employees must work effectively together to maintain and grow our business. Our future success depends in part on our ability to retain key personnel, particularly senior management and engineers. We also need to attract additional skilled personnel in significant areas of our business to grow. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our existing personnel or attract additional qualified employees in the future. We generally do not have employment contracts with our employees and do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our employees. Terrorism and international political instability may negatively affect our operations. The threat of terrorism targeted at the regions of the world in which we do business increases the uncertainty in our markets and may delay any recovery in the general economy, which could threaten our business. Increased international political instability, particularly resulting from the threat of terrorist attacks, and further enhanced security measures as a result of the threat of terrorist attacks may hinder our ability to do business and may increase our costs of operations. Such continuing instability could cause us to incur increased costs in transportation, make such transportation unreliable, increase our insurance costs and cause international markets to fluctuate. This instability could have the same effects on our suppliers and their ability to timely deliver their products to us. If this international political instability continues or increases, our business and results of operations could be harmed. Our manufacturing facilities and our customers’ manufacturing facilities may be subject to disruption from natural disasters. Operations at our manufacturing facilities are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including work stoppages, acts of war, terrorism, fire, earthquake, energy shortages, flooding or other natural disasters. Our corporate and manufacturing facilities in California are located near major earthquake faults, which have experienced earthquakes in the past. Such disruption could cause delays in shipments of products to our customers. We cannot ensure that alternate production capacity would be available if a major disruption were to occur or that, if it were available, it could be obtained on favorable terms. Such disruption could result in cancellation of orders or 19 Table of Contents loss of customers and could seriously harm our business. It could also significantly delay our research and engineering efforts for the development of new products, most of which is conducted at our California facilities. Operations at our customers’ manufacturing facilities are subject to the same disruptions that may affect our facilities. Any such disruption could result in the delay of scheduled delivery dates for products ordered by affected customers, the cancellation of existing orders, and the delay of future orders, all of which could seriously harm our business. We have exposure to various risks related to the regulatory environment. We are subject to various risks related to new, different, inconsistent or even conflicting laws, rules and regulations that may be enacted by legislative bodies and/or regulatory agencies in the countries in which we operate and with which we must comply. Computer viruses may disrupt our operations. Despite our network security measures, our products and servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems and our products. Any such event could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Additional Risks in Owning our Common Stock Our stock price may fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly in response to variations in quarterly operating results and other factors, such as: • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or by our competitors; • government regulations; • developments in patent or other property rights; and • developments in our relationships with our customers. In addition, the stock market has in recent years experienced significant price fluctuations. These fluctuations often have been unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies whose stock is traded. Broad market fluctuations, general economic condition and specific conditions in the flat panel display industry may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Some anti-takeover provisions may affect the price of our common stock. Our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The board also has the authority to determine the price, rights, preferences and privileges, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by the shareholders. The rights of our shareholders will be subject to, and may be impaired by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. These and other provisions contained in our charter documents and applicable provisions of California law could serve to depress our stock price or discourage a hostile bid in which shareholders could receive a premium for their shares. In addition, these provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock or otherwise effect a change in control of us. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock and do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have also agreed not to pay cash dividends under our current bank line of credit. Instead, we intend to apply any earnings to the expansion and development of our business. 20 Table of Contents 