ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks related to our business generally Although we have been a public company since February 1996, we have reoriented our business several times and our current business has not generated any significant revenues to date. At the time of our initial public offering, our business was primarily a subscription television service. In November 1998, we terminated the subscription television business and began a limited pilot program for the delivery of high-speed Internet access. We encountered technical difficulties in this pilot program and reoriented our business on wireless data and other services. We have not yet generated any significant revenue from these businesses. We have recorded operating losses in each reporting period since our inception and may never be profitable. We have recorded operating losses and negative operating cash flows since our inception and have limited revenues. At December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $83.1 million. We do not expect to have earnings from operations or positive operating cash flow until such time as our strategic investments achieve successful implementation of their business plans and/or form alliances for the use of our capabilities in the future. We may not be able to fund our operations and continue as a going concern. We may not have funds sufficient to finance our operations and enable us to meet our financial obligations for the next twelve months. There can be no assurances that we will be able to consummate any capital raising transactions, particularly in view of current economic conditions. The inability to generate future cash flow or raise funds to finance our strategic investments could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our business objectives. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 contains an explanatory paragraph which states that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. If we are not able to reduce or defer our expenditures, secure additional sources of revenue or otherwise secure additional funding, we may be unable to continue as a going concern, and we may be forced to restructure or significantly curtail our operations, file for bankruptcy or cease operations. In addition, a bankruptcy filing by one or more of our strategic investments could cause us to lose our investment and/or control and could prevent us from sharing in any future success of those strategic investments. The accompanying financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability of the carrying amount of recorded assets or the amount of liabilities that might result should the Company be unable to continue as a going concern. Should we be successful in securing the necessary capital to continue operations, it is likely that such arrangements would result in significant dilution to each shareholder’s ownership interest in the Company. 7 Index If the recent volatility in the United States and global markets continue for an extended period of time, it may become more difficult to raise money in the public and private markets and harm our financial condition and results of operations. The United States and global equity markets have recently been extremely volatile and unpredictable, reflecting in part a general concern regarding the global economy. This volatility has also affected the ability of businesses to obtain credit and to raise money in the capital markets. If we are unable to obtain credit or raise money in the capital markets, we may not be able to continue to fund our current products or otherwise continue to maintain our business. Our existing operations and infrastructure may not be adequate to manage the growth necessary for successful implementation of our business plan. Successful implementation of our business plan will require the management of growth. Our existing operations and infrastructure may not be adequate to manage such growth, and any steps taken to improve such systems and controls may not be sufficient. Our future success will depend in part upon attracting and retaining the services of current management and technical personnel. We also may not be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining new personnel in the future as future growth takes place. We do not maintain "key person" life insurance policies on any of our key personnel. Shant S. Hovnanian, Vahak S. Hovnanian and trusts controlled by members of the Hovnanian family together to control the direction and future operations of our company. Shant S. Hovnanian, Vahak S. Hovnanian and trusts controlled by members of the Hovnanian family in the aggregate own approximately 41% of our outstanding Common Stock at December 31, 2008. As a result, acting together they may have the power to elect all of the members of our Board of Directors, amend our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and control the direction and future operations of our Company, in each case without the approval of any of our other stockholders. Our stock price has historically been volatile, which may make it more difficult for you to resell shares when you want at prices you find attractive. The trading price of our Common Stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. During 2008 and 2007, the high and low sale prices of our Common Stock on the Nasdaq Stock Market ranged from $3.25 to $0.25, and $5.96 to $1.40, respectively. The closing sale price of our Common Stock was $2.87 on August 31, 2009. Our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products and media properties by us or our competitors, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable, and news reports relating to trends in our markets. We may not be able to maintain our listing with the Nasdaq Stock Market which may make it more difficult for you to resell shares when you want. On several occasions in the past, we were not in compliance with the Marketplace Rules of the Nasdaq Stock Market (“Nasdaq”), which require listed companies to maintain a closing bid price equal to or greater than $1.00. In December 2008, the Company received written notification from Nasdaq that it no longer complied with Nasdaq’s audit committee and independent director requirements under Marketplace Rules. The Company has until the earlier of the Company’s next annual shareholders’ meeting or December 2, 2009 to regain compliance with both the independent director and audit committee requirements. In addition, the Company failed to timely file its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, as well as its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2009 and June 30, 2009. Nasdaq advised the Company that it does not currently comply with Nasdaq’s Marketplace Rule 5250(c)(1) since it has not yet filed its Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2009. On August 12th, 2009, the Company announced that it received approval from Nasdaq for the plan the Company submitted to Nasdaq on June 15, 2009 for regaining compliance with Nasdaq filing requirements set forth in Marketplace Rule 5250(c)(1) (the “Rule”). As a result, Nasdaq has granted the Company a time extension to comply with the filing requirements set forth in the Rule. The extension will allow the Company to regain full compliance with the applicable Nasdaq filing requirements, and for the Company to maintain its securities listing, provided that the Company files its Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, its Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2009, and its Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2009, as required by the Rule, no later than October 13th, 2009. The Company expects that it will file its Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, and its 10-Q for the periods ending March 31, 2009 and June 30, 2009, on or before October 13, 2009, at which time the Company will be in compliance with Marketplace Rule 5250(c)(1). While the Company will demonstrate best efforts to regain compliance, and thus maintain its securities listing, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to meet the above mentioned deadlines and otherwise regain compliance. Should the Company be unable to meet the requirements, Nasdaq will issue a determination to delist the Company's securities. 8 Index If our Common Stock were delisted from Nasdaq, trading in our Common Stock would have to be conducted on the OTC Bulletin Board or in the “pink sheets”. If that were to occur, liquidity for our Common Stock could be significantly decreased which could reduce the trading price and increase the transaction costs of trading shares of our Common Stock. Sales of shares of Common Stock by major holders could adversely affect the market price of the Common Stock. Future sales of shares of Common Stock, or the availability of shares of Common Stock for future sale, may adversely impact the market price of the Common Stock prevailing from time to time. Sales of substantial amounts of our Common Stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of the Common Stock. Sales of shares of Common Stock by major holders could adversely affect the market price of the Common Stock. The Company has identified material weaknesses in its internal controls over financial reporting A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the Company's annual or interim consolidated financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. In its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, and as reported in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year then ended, management identified such material weaknesses as evidenced by the fact that the Company was unable to timely close its books and file required reports as required by securities regulations and has not filed its income tax returns on a timely basis. There is a reasonable possibility that material misstatements in the Company’s annual or interim consolidated financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis unless management is successful in remediating such material weaknesses. Risks related to certain short-term investments Securities that we invest in are subject to market price risks. As part of our overall investment strategy, we invest in publicly traded equity securities. We purchase these securities in anticipation of increases in the fair market values of the securities. We have also invested in equity and debt instruments of non-publicly held companies and account for them under the cost method since we do not have the ability to exercise significant influence over operations. We monitor these investments for other than temporary impairment by considering current factors including economic environment, market conditions, operational performance and other specific factors relating to the business underlying the investment, and record reductions in carrying values when necessary. Based on non-observable data received from these non-publicly held companies, we have determined that the fair value of these investments is $0 as of December 31, 2008. The Company therefore recorded an impairment charge of $800,000 in the fourth quarter of 2008. We have in the past and may in the future sell publicly traded equity securities that we do not own in anticipation of declines in the fair market values of the securities. When we sell securities that we do not own, we must borrow the securities we sold in order to deliver them and settle the trades. Thereafter, we must buy the securities and deliver them to the lender of the securities. Our potential for loss on these transactions is unlimited since the value of the underlying security can keep increasing which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, we had not sold any securities that we did not own. Although a portion of the Company's cash is typically invested in securities, the Company has pursued an acquisition strategy that would, if successfully executed, eliminate any risk of it being deemed to be an investment company. 9 Index Risks related to investments in other companies The value of our business may fluctuate because of companies that we may invest in. The value of our business may fluctuate because of companies that we may invest in. These companies may be development stage or privately held companies for which no public market exists for their stock. The valuations of our investments in privately held companies that we may invest in are indeterminate prior to their public offerings, and there can be no assurance that these offerings will occur since they will be dependent upon the development of these businesses, market conditions and other conditions over which we may have no control. Capital and management resources There will be a number of special issues that we will have to address for investment in start-up companies, including: the diversion of management attention in connection with both negotiating and overseeing these transactions; the potential issuance of additional shares of our Common Stock in connection with these transactions, which could dilute the rights of existing shareholders, and the need to incur additional debt in connection with these transactions. In addition, many, if not all, of these start-up companies will face the same, or similar, risks as we face in our own business. Managing growth Successful implementation of our business plan will require the management of growth. We cannot assure you that our existing operations and infrastructure will be adequate to manage such growth, or that any steps taken to improve such systems and controls will be sufficient. Our future success will depend in part upon attracting and retaining the services of current management and technical personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining new personnel in the future as future growth takes place. Risks related to medical device companies Risks related to government regulation and future regulatory requirements Medical devices such as ours are subject to strict regulation by state and federal authorities, including the Food and Drug Administration and comparable authorities in certain states. Manufacturers of medical devices are required to comply with very specific rules and regulations concerning the testing, manufacturing, packaging, labeling and marketing of medical devices. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in, among other things, civil and criminal fines, product recalls, detentions, seizures, injunctions and criminal prosecutions. In addition, these regulations are subject to future change. We cannot predict what material impact, if any, these changes might have on our business. Future changes in regulations or enforcement policies could impose more stringent requirements on us, compliance with which could adversely affect our business. Potential product recalls In the event that any of our products prove to be defective, we could voluntarily recall, or the FDA could require us to redesign or implement a recall of, any defective product. There is a possibility that we may recall products in the future and that future recalls could result in significant costs to us and in significant negative publicity which could harm our ability to market our products in the future. We could be exposed to significant liability claims. We could be exposed to significant liability claims if we are unable to obtain adequate insurance at acceptable costs and adequate levels or otherwise protect ourselves against potential product liability claims. The testing, manufacture, marketing and sale of medical devices involve the inherent risk of liability claims. A successful product liability claim could affect or prevent commercialization of our medical devices, or cause a significant financial burden on us, or both, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and ability to market our medical devices. Health care providers may not be able to obtain adequate levels of third-party reimbursement. The success of our product may depend on the ability of health care providers to obtain adequate levels of third-party reimbursement. The amount of reimbursement available may vary. The cost of medical care is funded, in substantial part, by government insurance programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and private and corporate health insurance plans. Third-party payers may deny reimbursement at adequate levels if they determine that a prescribed device or diagnostic procedure is not used in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods as determined by the payer, or is experimental, unnecessary or inappropriate. The inadequacy of the reimbursement may have a material adverse effect on our business. 10 Index The medical device industry is characterized by rapid technological changes and advances. Although the Company believes that its products are technologically current, the development of new technologies or refinements of existing ones by the Company's competitors could at any time make the Company's existing products technologically or economically obsolete. Although the Company is not aware of any pending technological developments that would be likely to materially and adversely affect its business or financial position, there can be no assurance that such developments will not occur at any time. We may rely on third parties to support the manufacture or commercialization of our products. We may rely on third parties, and possibly single third parties, to manufacture or commercialize our products. Third parties may not perform their obligations as expected. The amount and timing of resources that third parties devote to manufacturing or commercializing our product may not be within our control. The third party on which we rely to commercialize our products may not be able to recruit and retain skilled sales representatives. Furthermore, our interests may differ from those of the third party that manufacture or commercializes our products. Disagreements that may arise with the third party could limit the manufacture or commercialization of our products, or result in litigation or arbitration, which would be time-consuming, distracting and expensive. If the third party that supports the manufacture or commercialization of our products breaches or terminates its agreement with us, or fails to conduct its activities in a timely manner, such breach, termination or failure could result in the disruption of our business and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 