Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a number of very significant risks. Because of these risks, only persons able to bear the risk and withstand the loss of their entire investment should invest in our common stock. Prospective investors should consider the following risk factors, among others, before making an investment decision. · The current U.S. and global economic conditions have affected and are likely to continue to affect our results of operations and financial position. The current economic conditions have resulted in decreased revenues, retail store count, operating income and cash flow. This downturn has lead to and might continue to lead to a reduction of certain overhead expenses as well as stronger restrictions on customer credit. These uncertainties about future economic conditions make it difficult for us to forecast future operating results and cash flows from operations. · Our common stock trades on the OTC Bulletin Board, which makes it more difficult for shareholders to buy and sell shares of our common stock. Our common stock is trading on the OTC Bulletin Board (“OTCBB”). The OTCBB is generally considered a less efficient market that does not have national exposure to prospective shareholders. As such, shareholders are likely to find it more difficult to trade our common stock on the OTCBB. · The application of the "penny stock rules" could reduce the liquidity and, therefore, the market price of our common stock. On March 29, 2011, the last reported sales price of our common stock was $0.09. Because the trading price of our common stock is less than $5.00 per share and no longer trades on NASDAQ, our common stock comes within the definition of a "penny stock." The “penny stock rules” impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell our securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors, generally those with assets in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000, or $300,000 together with their spouse. Before a broker-dealer can sell a penny stock, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) rules require the firm to first approve the customer for the transaction in question and receive from the customer a written agr eement to such transaction. The firm must furnish the customer a document describing the risks of investing in penny stocks. The broker-dealer must also advise the customer of the current market quotation, if any, for the penny stock and the compensation the firm and its broker will receive for the trade. Finally, the firm must send monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. These additional burdens imposed on broker-dealers may restrict the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and may affect the ability of shareholders to resell our common stock. · The Chairman of our Board of Directors has ownership of and/or is directly involved in the operations of certain other retail optical companies, which are in competition with our Sterling Stores and Combine Members. This competition may result in conflicts of interest. Dr. Alan Cohen, our Chairman of the Board of Directors, and, together with his immediate family members, one of our significant shareholders, owns, operates, manages and/or is otherwise involved with other companies in the retail optical industry, which are in competition with our Sterling Stores and/or Combine Members, and may result in potential conflicts. Until March 1, 2008, Dr. Cohen and his brother Dr. Robert Cohen were officers and directors of and together with members of their immediate families, were the sole shareholders of Cohen Fashion Optical, Inc. (“CFO, Inc.”), which company operated and franchised retail optical stores similar to Sterling Stores and Combine Member locations in the States of Connecticut, Florida, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York and Puerto Rico. ;Effective March 1, 2008, CFO, Inc. sold substantially all of its assets to Cohen Fashion Optical, LLC (“CFO, LLC”), a Kentucky limited liability company, which continues to operate and offer franchises for retail optical stores primarily under the name Cohen’s Fashion Optical. Although, Dr. Alan Cohen does not own any interest in or participate in the management of CFO, LLC, Dr. Cohen is an executive officer and director of Real Optical, LLC and CFO Retail, Inc. (collectively “REAL”), and he and members of his immediate family are principal members and shareholders of said companies. REAL is a franchisee of CFO, LLC and operates retail optical stores in the States of Connecticut, Florida, New Jersey and New York similar to Sterling Stores and Combine Member locations. As of December 31, 2010, REAL was the franchisee of 16 Cohen’s Fashion Optical stores, and was also managing an additional store on behalf of CFO, LLC. In the futu re, REAL may open additional stores that are located in the same areas as Sterling Stores and/or Combine Member locations. These competing businesses could reduce the revenues generated at our competing Sterling Stores and/or from Combine Members. Dr. Cohen is also an executive officer of, and he, together with members of his immediate family, are principal members of General Vision Services, LLC (“GVS”) and Vision World, LLC (“Vision World”). GVS operates retail optical stores located in the New York metropolitan area. GVS does not offer franchises, however, in connection with the transaction between CFO LLC, and CFO, Inc., GVS agreed that all of its stores, including any stores to be opened in the future, would be operated as franchisees of CFO, LLC. GVS stores are similar to, and compete with, the Sterling Stores and/or Combine Members being operated in the same areas. As of December 31, 2010, GVS was the franchisee of CFO, LLC, and was operating 5 stores under the name General Vision Services. Fu rthermore, both GVS and Vision World solicit and administer third party benefit programs, through their network of company-owned and independent retail optical stores. It is possible that additional GVS or Vision World Stores, or other retail optical stores, which provide services under third party benefit plans administered by GVS or Vision World, may, in the future, be located near one or more of our Sterling Stores and/or Combine Member locations, and may compete directly with such locations. Additionally, we jointly participate in certain third party benefit plans with GVS and certain Sterling Stores and GVS stores participate as providers under third party benefit plans obtained by us or GVS and, in all likelihood, will continue to do so in the future. A possible consequence of Dr. Cohen’s interests in REAL, GVS, Vision World and their respective affiliates is that conflicts of interest may arise, as described above, and when business opportunities in our line of business are presented to them, whether in his capacity as member of our Board or as a shareholder, officer and director in these other entities. While there can be no assurance as to the manner in which corporate opportunities presented to Dr. Cohen will be allocated, by him, among the various competing business entities in which he is involved, as a supplement to the common law fiduciary duties to which all directors owe us and our shareholders, we have adopted a Corporate Code of Ethics (which can be accessed on our website at www.emergingvision.com) to which Dr. Cohen must adhere, which, in part, establ ishes guidelines as to how potential conflicts of interest are to be handled. Dr. Robert Cohen, who served on our Board of Directors until he resigned on March 5, 2008 and who is still a shareholder of the Company, also owns, operates, manages and/or is otherwise involved with the same companies that Dr. Alan Cohen is involved in. In addition, Dr. Robert Cohen serves as President of CFO, LLC. · We significantly depend on the ability and experience of certain members of our management team, and their departure may prevent or delay the successful implementation and execution of our business plan. We rely on the skills of certain members of our senior management team to guide its operations, the loss of whom could have an adverse effect on our operations. We currently have an employment agreement with Mr. Glenn Spina, our Chief Executive Officer, through November 2012; however, no other member of senior management has an employment agreement. Accordingly, the loss of their services could prevent or delay the successful execution of its business plan and attainment of profitability. · We have no control over the management of most of the Sterling Stores, nor do we control any of the Combine or TOG Members. These stores may be managed by unsuccessful franchisees, Combine Members and/or TOG Members, which would reduce our revenues generated from these locations. We rely, in substantial part, on franchisees, Combine Members and TOG Members for revenues. Since we do not control the management of these locations, it is possible that a franchisee/owner may not have the business acumen or financial resources to successfully operate his or her franchised Sterling Store, Combine Member location and/or TOG Member location. We, together with a substantial number of franchisees, have recently experienced a significant decrease in sales, mainly due to current economic conditions, generated from the operation of Sterling Stores, and cannot predict what will happen with the economy in the future. If a substantial number of franchisees, Combine Members and/or TOG Members experience a future decline in their sales and/or are ultimately not successful; revenues from franchise es, Combine Members and/or TOG Members would decrease. Some of the factors that could lead to future decline in sales, include, among others: decreased spending by consumers, continuing current economic climate, increased competition by large discount eyewear chains, which increases the need for franchisees, Combine Members and/or TOG Members to provide more aggressive promotional sales, thus decreasing their profit margins; and the limitations of vision care benefits available under medical and third party benefit plans. · We operate in a highly competitive market, and many of our competitors have much greater resources, which may make it difficult for us to remain competitive. We compete with many types of eyewear providers, which may prevent us from increasing or maintaining market share. The retail optical business is highly competitive and includes chains of retail optical stores, superstores, individual retail outlets and a large number of individual opticians, optometrists and ophthalmologists that provide professional services and dispense prescription eyewear. These competitors may take advantage of prompt payment discount plans, aggressive discounting and price-cutting for customers, and increased advertising. As retailers of prescription eyewear, we and our franchisees generally service local markets and, therefore, competition varies substantially fro m one location or geographic area to another. If we are not successful in dealing with competition, we will not be able to increase or maintain our customer base or market share. The operations and success of Combine and TOG are highly dependent upon the purchases of eye care products by independent optical retailers (Combine/TOG Members). If Combine/TOG Members decide to purchase their eye care products through a competing optical purchasing group business or purchase directly from a vendor, then revenues generated from Combine and/or TOG would decrease. A decrease in the number of Combine/TOG Members could reduce Combine and/or TOG profit margins, net income and cash flow. · The optical industry as a whole, including us, has experienced a reduction in profit margins. We often offer incentives to our customers, which lower profit margins. At times when major competitors offer significantly lower prices for their products, it then becomes in our best interest to do the same. Certain of the major competitors offer promotional incentives to their customers including free eye exams, "50% Off" on designer frames and "Buy One, Get One Free" eye care promotions. In response to these promotions, we have offered the same or similar incentives to its customers. This practice has resulted in lower profit margins and these competitive promotional incentives may further reduce revenues, gross margins and cash flows. Although we believe that Sterling Stores provide quality service and products at competitive prices, several of the large retail optical chains have great er financial resources. Therefore, we may not be able to continue to deliver cost efficient products in the event of aggressive pricing by competitors, which would reduce our profit margins, net income and cash flow. · As refractive laser surgery gains market acceptance, we may lose revenue from traditional eyewear customers. Laser surgery could eliminate the need for certain eyeglasses and contact lenses. As refractive laser surgery gains market acceptance, we may lose revenue from traditional eyewear customers. As traditional eyewear users undergo laser vision correction procedures or other vision correction techniques, the demand for certain contact lenses and eyeglasses will decrease. Due to the fact that the marketing and sale of eyeglasses and contact lenses is a significant part of our business, a decrease in customer demand for these products could have a material adverse effect on sales of prescription eyewear, as well as those of our franchisees. · We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations that affect the health care industry, which may affect our ability to generate revenues or subject us to additional expenses. The regulatory requirements that the Company and our franchisees must satisfy to conduct our businesses, varies from state to state. For example, some states have enacted laws governing the ability of ophthalmologists and optometrists to enter into contracts with business corporations or lay persons, and some states prohibit companies from computing their royalty fees based upon a percentage of the gross revenues generated by optometrists from exam fees. Various federal and state regulations also limit the financial and non-financial terms of agreements with health care providers and, therefore, potential revenues may differ depending upon the nature of our various health care provider affiliations. The Company and our franchisees are also subject to the requirements of HIPAA, which governs participation in managed care programs. We also must comply with the privacy regulations under HIPAA. In addition, all states have passed laws that govern or affect arrangements with the optometrists who practice in vision centers. Additionally, we and our franchisees are also subject to regulations regarding franchise business and in-store laboratory operations, as well as the operation, in California, of VCC, which is regulated by the State of California Department of Managed Health Care. As a franchisor, we are subject to various registrations and disclosure requirements imposed by the Federal Trade Commission and by many of the states in which we conduct franchising operations. The Fed eral Occupational Safety and Health Act regulates our in-store laboratory operations. Although we believe that we are in material compliance with all applicable laws and/or regulations, we may not be able to sustain compliance if these laws and/or regulations change in the future and, in that event, we may have to incur significant expenses to maintain compliance. · If our subsidiary, VCC, is no longer permitted to employ optometrists, then the revenue generated from its California Sterling Stores would, in all likelihood, decrease materially, thereby decreasing net income and cash flow. A class action was commenced against the Company and VCC alleging that the operation of VCC, which employs licensed optometrists, violates certain provisions of the California Business and Professions Code. Although the Company and VCC prevailed in this case, in such event that VCC would lose its right to employ licensed optometrists in the future, then sales, net income and cash flow would, in all likelihood, decrease. · We may be exposed to significant risk from liability claims if we are unable to obtain insurance, at acceptable costs, to protect us against potential liability claims. The rendering of professional eye care services entails an inherent risk of professional malpractice and other similar claims. We do not influence or control the practice of optometry by the optometrists that it employs or affiliates with, nor does it have responsibility for their compliance with certain regulatory and other requirements directly applicable to these individual professionals. As a result of the relationship between our employed or affiliated optometrists and us, we may become subject to professional malpractice actions or claims under various theories relating to the professional services provided by these individuals. We may not be able to continue to obtain adequate liability insurance at reasonable rates, in which event; our insurance may not be adequate to cover claims asserted agai nst us, thus, potentially decreasing our future cash position and potentially jeopardizing our ability to continue operations. · The viability of most of our Sterling Stores and most of our Combine and TOG Members remains dependent on our relationship with optometrists and/or ophthalmologists. Our operations and success are highly dependent upon health care providers, and we may be unable to enter into favorable arrangements with these providers. Certain states prohibit us from employing optometrists to render professional services. Accordingly, the success of our operations as full-service eye care providers depends upon our ability to enter into agreements with these health care providers to render professional services at Sterling Stores, Combine Member and/or TOG Member locations. Due to the increased competition, among large discounters of retail eyewear, to enter into agreements with health care providers and the finite number of available health care providers, the costs of compensating these health care providers has increased materially. The Company, its franchisees, Comb ine Members and/or TOG Members may not be able to enter into agreements with these health care providers on satisfactory terms, or these agreements may not be profitable, which would reduce the revenues the Company, its franchisees, Combine Members and/or TOG Members could generate from their operations. · Certain events could result in a dilution of shareholders’ ownership of our common stock. As of December 31, 2010, we had 18,510,519 shares that were reserved for issuance under outstanding warrants, options and senior convertible preferred stock. The exercise and conversion prices, as the case may be, of common stock equivalents range from $0.05 to $0.75 per share. If converted or exercised, these securities will result in a dilution of shareholders’ percentage ownership of the Company’s common stock. In addition, if we acquire new companies through the issuance of common or preferred stock, percentages of ownership will be further diluted. · Applicable tax rules could prohibit us from being able to utilize our net operating loss carry-forwards (“NOLs”), thereby decreasing net income and cash flows. Our potential limitation on the use of our net operating loss carry-forwards in accordance with Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, due to certain changes in ownership that have occurred or could occur in the future. Furthermore, in order to limit the potential that future transactions could have a similar effect on our tax attributes, we amended our by-laws to provide the Board of Directors with the ability to void certain transactions in our securities that may impair or limit the future utilization of our tax attributes, including our net operating loss carry-forwards. However, there can be no assurance that we have been, or will in the future be, successful in preventing an event which could materially impair or limit our utilization of our net operating loss carry-forwards and other tax attrib utes. · The acquisition of Combine Buying Group may create competition with our Sterling Stores. Combine Members operate retail optical stores similar to Sterling Stores in the states of California, Delaware, Florida, Illinois, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, New Jersey, New York, North Dakota, Pennsylvania, Virginia, West Virginia, Wisconsin, the District of Columbia and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Currently, many Combine Member locations are in the same shopping center or mall as, or in close proximity to, certain Sterling Stores; and in the future, the Company may open Sterling Stores that are located in the same areas as Combine Members. These competing businesses could reduce the revenues generated at, both, our Sterling Stores and Combine Member locations, or could cause Combine Members to leave Combine because they view Sterling Stores as the competition. · We are dependent upon a limited number of vendors to provide our members with a broad spectrum of product purchasing options. If these vendors cease to do business with us or do not meet our demands, either in volume or quantity, then we could be materially harmed. Combine and TOG utilize certain key vendors to provide its members with a broad spectrum of product purchasing options. If one of these key vendors ceases to do business with Combine and/or TOG, or ceases to exist, Combine and/or TOG could see a decrease in the amount of product purchased by its members, thus decreasing its revenues and net income. · We rely heavily on computer systems in managing financial results and day-to-day operations. Any damage or interruption in such systems could cause us delays in financial reporting and difficulties in managing day-to-day operations exposing us to additional operating expenses. We are subject to damage and interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events and usage by employees. This includes any damage to the systems that allow for electronic payments from our franchisees and credit card payments from its Sterling Store customers. Any repairs necessary to replace and/or fix these systems could result in a significant expense to us. Additionally, certain of our financial reporting processes are not part of an integrated financial reporting system, which requires additional hours and administrative costs to operate manage and control these systems. We are working to transition most of the processes to an integrated financial reporting system. The conversion of these systems and processes could result in a significant expense to us and may pose greater risks associated with maintaining internal controls as the systems are integrated. · As we guarantee certain of our Sterling Store leases, we are exposed to ongoing lease liability and the potential for future losses should one of those Sterling Stores shut down operations. Our leases are generally for 10 years. Many of the leases provide for annual increases over the term of the lease in addition to the costs associated with insurance, taxes, repairs, maintenance and utilities. If an existing Sterling Store becomes non-profitable and we decide to close the location, we may still be required to pay the base rent, taxes and other rental charges for the balance of the lease. · To maintain ongoing operations, we will need to extend the term on our current credit facility, or find alternative financing. Additionally, we may be unable to service our current debt obligations with cash flows from operations. In connection with the purchases of Combine and TOG, along with other debt obligations, we have approximately $3,824,000 of outstanding debt as of December 31, 2010. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future, we may be unable to make principal and interest payments on such borrowings when they become due and may need to refinance all or a portion of the existing debt, or obtain additional financing. Additionally, the amount outstanding on our Non-Revolving Line of Credit Note and Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company (“M&T”) was $3,206,854 as of March 31, 2011. We entered into an Amended, Modified, Extended and Restated Non-Revolving Line of Credit Note and Credit Agreement (the “Restated Credit Agreement”) with M&T, effective March 31, 2011, which agreement provides, among other things, that all unpaid principal will be due on May 30, 2012. We also executed a $500,000 Term Note in favor of M&T, dated as of March 31, 2011, which note commits us to pay twelve, equal monthly principal payments of $41,667, plus interest, by April 30, 2012, and executed a new Revolving Line of Credit Note and Credit Agreement (the 8220;Revolving Credit Agreement”) in favor of M&T, dated as of March 31, 2011, which allows us to borrow up to $100,000. We currently cannot guarantee that we will be able to pay the remaining principal balance due under the Restated Credit Agreement on or before May 30, 2012. Additionally, we cannot guarantee that M&T will refinance on favorable terms, if at all. Although M&T has agreed to allow us to borrow an additional $100,000, we are no longer able to borrow under the Restated Credit Agreement. As such, we are currently exploring and will continue to explore certain financing options available to us to generate additional working capital. Prior to fiscal 2010, we had defaulted on certain financial covenants due to poor earnings. As such, we had to obtain multiple waivers from M&T on such financial covenants. The Restated Credit Agreement continues to require us to comply with certain financial covenants, which we believe we will be able to; however, based on the history, there is no guarantee we can comply with such covenants. If we cannot remain compliant with the financial covenants, M&T could declare an event of default under the terms of the Restated Credit Agreement and accelerate the Credit Facility. · Due to the pending litigation with Neil Glachman and Combine Optical Management Corporation, we may need additional financing should the result of such litigation be unfavorable to us. We have been able to utilize the earnings from the operations of Combine to support the repayment of its related party debt with Neil Glachman, the previous owner and former President of Combine. On September 29, 2010, Mr. Glachman sent notice informing us that he was exercising his Put Right pursuant to his Option Agreement and demanding the associated payment of $700,000. Additionally, on October 6, 2010, we received notice from attorneys representing Combine Optical Management Corporation (“COMC”) demanding the acceleration and immediate payment of the promissory notes (approximately $336,000). Due to the pending litigation with Mr. Glachman and COMC, as described in Note 12, we have not recognized the exercise nor have we made any payments under the promissory notes, although both amoun ts are reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. We may need additional financing should the outcome of the ligation be unfavorable to us, and we are currently exploring certain options to enable us to make such payment, if necessary. However, there can be no assurance that we will find financing or that such financing will be on terms favorable to us. · The Canadian/US dollar exchange rate exposes us to foreign currency risks. We are exposed to foreign currency risk associated with TOG operations as the financial position and operating results of TOG, which operations are being calculated in Canadian Dollars and then translated into U.S. Dollars for consolidation. We have not implemented a hedging strategy to potentially reduce foreign currency risk. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable to smaller reporting companies. 