Item 1A. Risk Factors Investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of, but are not limited to, these risks. In assessing these risks, investors should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto. If our existing customers do not renew their term license, perpetual maintenance or other recurring contracts, our business will suffer. Total recurring revenues, which we define as term license, maintenance from perpetual arrangements, other recurring revenue and Asset Under Administration (AUA) fees for certain 14 Table of Contents perpetual arrangements, represented 90%, 89% and 89% of total net revenues during 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We expect to continue to derive a significant portion of our revenue from our clients' renewal of term license, perpetual maintenance and other recurring contracts and such renewals are critical to our future success. Some factors that may affect the renewal rate of our contracts include: •The impact of the economic environment and market volatility on our clients and prospects; •The impact of customers consolidating or going out of business; •The price, performance and functionality of our solutions; •The availability, price, performance and functionality of competing products and services; •The effectiveness of our maintenance and support services; and •Our ability to develop complementary products and services. Most of our base of perpetual license customers have historically renewed their annual maintenance although our customers have no obligation to renew such maintenance after the first year of their license agreements. Our perpetual license maintenance revenues have been trending downward and decreased 5%, 3% and 2% during 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. In addition, market downturns, such as the downturn beginning in the fall of 2008, and other factors have caused, and may in the future cause, some clients not to renew their maintenance; reduce their level of maintenance; not renew their term license contracts; or renew such term licenses for fewer products or users, all of which adversely affects our renewal rates and revenue from these customers. Our renewal rates are based on cash collections and are disclosed one quarter in arrears. Our reported quarterly renewal rate for perpetual maintenance and term license renewals may fluctuate. For example, our disclosed quarterly renewal rates during 2011 and 2010 were higher than the corresponding periods in 2009, but below those in 2008, and our disclosed quarterly renewal rates thus far for 2012 have fluctuated both above and below the previous year's rates. Decreases in renewal rates reflect reduced maintenance expenditures, reduced term license renewals, customer attrition, and reductions in products licensed or number of users by clients, as well as from slower payments received from renewal clients. We have relatively limited experience with renewals of our term license contracts. We have even less experience with renewals of certain other recurring contracts, such as our SaaS-based offerings, Advent OnDemand and Black Diamond which we acquired in June 2011. Our customers have no obligation to renew their term license or other recurring contracts and given the relatively limited number of years in which we have experience renewing term license and other recurring contracts and fluctuations in term license renewal rates, it is difficult to predict expected renewal rates. Additionally, we cannot predict whether the renewals will be less advantageous to us than the original term or other recurring contract. For example, the renewal periods for our term license contracts are typically shorter than our original term license contract and customers may request a reduction in the number of users or products licensed, resulting in a lower annual term license. Further, customers may elect to not renew their term license or other recurring contracts at all. We may incur significantly more costs in securing our term license or other recurring contract renewals than we incur for our perpetual maintenance renewals. If our term license or other recurring contract customers renew under terms less favorable to us or choose not to renew their contracts, or if it costs significantly more to secure a renewal for us, our operating results may be harmed. Our sales cycle is long and we have limited ability to forecast the timing and amount of specific sales and the timing of specific implementations. The licensing of our software products and services often requires prospective customers to provide significant executive-level sponsorship and to make major systems architecture decisions. As a 15 Table of Contents result, we must generally engage in relatively lengthy sales and contracting efforts. Sales transactions may therefore be delayed during the customer decision process because we must provide a significant level of education to prospective customers regarding the use and benefit of our products. Our business and prospects are subject to uncertainties in the financial markets that can cause customers to remain cautious about capital and information technology expenditures, particularly in uncertain economic environments, or to decrease their information technology budgets as an expense reduction measure. The sales cycle associated with the purchase of our solutions is typically between two and twelve months depending upon the size of the client, and is subject to a number of significant risks that have impacted our sales and over which we have little or no control, including broader financial market volatility, adverse economic conditions, customers' budgeting constraints, internal selection procedures, and changes in customer personnel, among others. As a result of a lengthy and unpredictable sales cycle, we have limited ability to forecast the timing and amount of specific perpetual license sales, or term license, Advent OnDemand and Black Diamond sales which we report quarterly as annual contract value (ACV) bookings. The timing of large individual license sales is especially difficult to forecast, and we may not be successful in closing large license transactions on a timely basis or at all. Customers may postpone their purchases of our existing products or product enhancements in advance of the anticipated introduction of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors. Accordingly, our level of ACV bookings in any particular period is subject to significant fluctuation. For example, during 2011, our ACV bookings increased by 6%, compared to 2010. During 2012, our ACV bookings decreased by 3% compared to 2011. When a customer purchases a term license together with implementation services, we do not recognize any revenue under the contract until the implementation services are substantially complete. The timing of large implementations is difficult to forecast. Customers may delay or postpone the timing of their particular projects due to the availability of resources or other customer specific priorities. If we are not able to complete an implementation project for a term license in a quarter, it will cause us to defer all of the contract revenues to a subsequent quarter. Because our expenses are relatively fixed in the near term, any shortfall from anticipated revenues could result in a significant variation in our operating results from quarter to quarter. Our current operating results may not be reflective of our future financial performance. During 2012, 2011 and 2010, we recognized 90%, 89% and 89%, respectively, of total net revenues from recurring sources. We generally recognize revenue from these sources ratably over the terms of these agreements, which typically range from one to three years. As a result, almost all of our revenues in any quarter are generated from contracts entered into during previous periods. Consequently, a significant decline in new business generated in any quarter may not materially affect our results of operations in that quarter but will have an impact on our revenue growth rate in future quarters. We also experience fluctuations and seasonality in our new business generated each quarter. For example, ACV in the fourth quarter of 2012 decreased by 19% compared to ACV bookings in the comparable 2011 period and increased by 56% compared to the third quarter of 2012. ACV for fiscal 2012 decreased 3% compared to fiscal 2011. Additionally, a decline in renewals of term agreements, maintenance or data and other subscription contracts during a quarter will not be fully reflected in our financial performance in that quarter. For example, because we recognize revenue ratably, the non-renewal of term agreements or maintenance contracts late in a quarter may have very little impact on revenue for that quarter, but will reduce revenue in future quarters. In addition, we may be unable to adjust our costs in response to reduced revenue. Further, because of the large percentage of revenue from recurring sources in our term license business model, our historical operating results on a generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) 16 Table of Contents basis will not necessarily be the sole or most relevant factor in predicting our future operating results. Accordingly, we report certain non-GAAP or operational information, including our quarterly bookings metrics (expressed as ACV) and maintenance and term license renewal rates, that is intended to provide investors with certain of the information that management uses as a basis for planning and forecasting of future periods. However, we believe that undue reliance should not be placed upon non-GAAP or operating information because this information is neither standardized across companies nor subjected to the same control activities and audit procedures that produce our GAAP financial results. Uncertain economic and financial market conditions adversely affect our business. The market for investment management software systems has been and may in the future be negatively affected by a number of factors, including reductions in capital expenditures by customers and volatile performance of major financial markets. For example, U.S. and European economies continued to show signs of weakening during the third quarter of 2012 due to the growing uncertainty about the fate of the eurozone and continued weakness in U.S. labor markets. With this volatile environment and general uncertainty as a backdrop, our customers became cautious and slowed buying decisions which elongated some sales and cash collection cycles. Also, our new contract bookings, revenue, renewal rates and cash collections were lower than expected during 2012, especially in Europe and the Middle East, and may continue in 2013. Market conditions have also impacted our performance in the past. For example, macroeconomic concerns in 2011 and again in 2012, such as the Euro-zone default risk and U.S. debt ceiling debate, resulted in a cautious buying environment and elongated sales cycles in some instances. Also, during the fall of 2008 through 2010, we experienced some clients and prospects delaying or cancelling additional license purchases, while others went out of business, reduced personnel, or were acquired. The target clients for our products include a range of financial services organizations that manage investment portfolios. The success of many of our clients is intrinsically linked to the health of the financial markets. The demand for our solutions has been and continues to be disproportionately affected by fluctuations, disruptions, instability and downturns in the economy and financial services industry, which may cause clients and potential clients to exit the industry or delay, cancel or reduce any planned expenditures for investment management systems and software products. In addition, the failure of existing investment firms or the slowdown in the formation of new investment firms could cause a decline in demand for our solutions. Consolidation of financial services firms and other clients will result in reduced technology expenditures or acquired customers using the acquirer's own proprietary software and services solutions or the solutions of another vendor. In some circumstances where both acquisition parties are customers of Advent, the combined entity may require fewer Advent products and services than each individually licensed prior to becoming a combined entity, thus reducing our revenue. Challenging economic conditions may also cause our customers to experience difficulty with gaining timely access to sufficient credit or our customers may become unable to pay for the products or services they have purchased, which could result in their inability to fulfill or make timely payments to us. If that were to occur, our ability to collect receivables would be negatively affected, and our reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. We have in the past experienced a number of market downturns in the financial services industry and resulting declines in information technology spending, which has caused longer sales and contracting cycles, deferral or delay of information technology projects and generally reduced expenditures for software and related services. The severity of the market downturn and volatility and uncertainty in the financial markets and the financial services sector in the last several years makes it difficult for us to forecast operating results and may result in a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations in the longer term. 17 Table of Contents The market downturn beginning in the autumn of 2008 and subsequent economic uncertainty caused, and other downturns in the future may cause clients not to renew their term licenses or perpetual license maintenance. Also, significant declines in market value of our clients affect their Assets Under Administration (AUA) or Assets Under Management (AUM). Consequently, we may also experience a decline in the ACV of bookings since the pricing of some of our products is based upon our client's AUA or AUM. Furthermore, we have some contracts for which clients pay us fees based on the greater of a negotiated annual minimum fee or a calculated fee that is determined by the client's AUA or AUM. If a client previously paid us based on the calculated fee, rather than the annual minimum fee, we would experience a decline in revenue as a result of any decline in those clients' AUA or AUM. We operate in a highly competitive industry. The market for investment management software is competitive and highly fragmented, is subject to rapid change and is sensitive to new product introductions and marketing efforts by industry participants. Our largest single source of competition is from proprietary systems used by existing and potential clients, many of whom develop their own software for their particular needs and therefore may be reluctant to license software products offered by third party vendors such as Advent. We also face significant competition from other providers of software and related services as well as providers of outsourced services. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories and greater financial, technical, sales and marketing resources than we do. In addition, consolidation has occurred among some of the competitors in our markets. Competitors vary in size, scope of services offered and platforms supported. In recent years, many of our competitors have merged with each other or with other larger third parties, and it is possible that even larger companies will emerge through additional acquisitions of companies and technologies. Consolidation among our competitors may result in stronger competitors in our markets and may therefore either result in a loss of market share or harm our results of operations. In addition, we also face competition from potential new entrants into our markets that may develop innovative technologies or business models, particularly for SaaS businesses where barriers to entry are relatively lower. Furthermore, competitors may respond to weak market conditions by lowering prices, offering better contractual terms and attempting to lure away our customers and prospects with lower cost solutions. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that competitive pressure will not result in price reductions, reduced operating margins or loss of market share, any one of which could seriously harm our business. We also must continue to introduce new products and product enhancements. The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological change, changes in customer demands, evolving industry standards and new regulatory requirements. New products based on recent technologies or new industry standards can render existing products obsolete and unmarketable. As a result, our future success will continue to depend upon our ability to develop or acquire new products and product enhancements that address the needs of our target markets and respond to their changing standards and practices. We continue to release numerous products and product upgrades and we believe our future success depends on continuing such releases. Additionally, in October 2008, we acquired Tamale Software which enables us to offer a new product in the nascent research management field and in March 2010, Advent Norway AS acquired Goya AS to allow us to provide transfer agency-related solutions to mutual fund managers and mutual fund distributors. In addition, in February 2011, Advent Software, Inc. acquired Syncova Solutions, Ltd., a United Kingdom-based company that provides margin management and debt finance reconciliation and optimization software and in June 2011, we acquired Black Diamond, a Florida-based company that provides a web-based, outsourced portfolio management and reporting platforms for investment advisors. However, it is too early to know whether these products will meet anticipated sales or will be broadly accepted in the market, whether a market 18 Table of Contents will develop as expected for these new products or whether we will continue to introduce more products. We may not be successful in developing, introducing, marketing and licensing our new products or product enhancements on a timely and cost effective basis, or at all, and our new products and product enhancements may not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace or achieve market acceptance. Delays in the commencement of commercial shipments of new products or enhancements or delays in client implementations or migrations may result in client dissatisfaction and delay or loss of product revenues. Additionally, existing clients may be reluctant to go through the process of migrating from our Axys product to our Advent Portfolio Exchange (APX) product, which may slow the migration of our customer base to APX. In addition, clients may delay purchases in anticipation of new products or product enhancements. Our ability to develop new products and product enhancements is also dependent upon the products of other software vendors, including certain system software vendors, such as Microsoft Corporation, database vendors, Software-as-a-Service providers, and development tool vendors. If the products of such vendors have design defects or flaws, are unexpectedly delayed in their introduction, are unavailable on acceptable terms, or the vendors exit the business, our business could be seriously harmed. We depend heavily on our Geneva®, Advent Portfolio Exchange®, Axys® and Moxy® products. We derive a majority of our net revenues from the license and maintenance revenues from our Geneva, Advent Portfolio Exchange (APX), Axys and Moxy products. In addition, Moxy and many of our applications, such as Partner and various data services, have been designed to provide an integrated solution with Geneva, APX and Axys. As a result, we believe that for the foreseeable future a majority of our net revenues will depend upon continued market acceptance of Geneva, APX, Axys and Moxy, and upgrades to those products. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly. Revenues from recurring sources have grown to 90% in 2012 from 89% in both 2011 and 2010, respectively. During fiscal 2012, term license revenues comprised approximately 49% of recurring revenues as compared to approximately 46% and 43% in fiscal years 2011 and 2010, respectively. When a customer purchases a term license together with implementation services, we do not recognize any revenue under the contract until the implementation services are substantially completed and then we recognize revenue ratably over the remaining length of the contract. If the implementation services are still in progress as of quarter-end, we will defer all of the contract revenues to a subsequent quarter. At the point professional services are substantially completed, we recognize the professional services fees earned and related expenses, and a pro-rata amount of the term license revenue based on the elapsed time from the start of the term license to the substantial completion of professional services. For example, we deferred net revenues of $3.2 million and $9.5 million in 2010 and 2011, respectively. During 2012, the revenue recognized from completed implementations exceeded the revenue deferred from projects in the process of being implemented, resulting in a net recognition of revenue of $1.0 million for fiscal 2012. In future periods, our revenues related to completed implementations may vary depending on the number of projects that reach substantial completion during the quarter. Term license revenue for the remaining contract years and the remaining deferred professional services revenue and related expenses are recognized ratably over the remaining contract length. The term license component of the deferred revenue balance will increase or decrease in the future depending on the amount of new term license bookings relative to the number of implementations that reach substantial completion in a particular quarter. Although our substantial revenue from recurring sources under our term license model provides us with longer term stability and more visibility in the short term, our quarterly net revenues 19 Table of Contents and operating results may still fluctuate significantly depending on these and other factors. Our expense levels are relatively fixed in the short-term. Due to the fixed nature of these expenses, combined with the relatively high gross margin historically achieved on our products, an unanticipated decline in net revenues in any particular quarter may adversely affect our operating results. In addition, we experience seasonality in our licensing. We believe that this seasonality results primarily from customer budgeting cycles and expect this seasonality to continue in the future. The fourth quarter of the year typically has more licensing activity. That can result in ACV bookings and perpetual license fee revenue being the highest in the fourth quarter, followed by lower term license bookings and perpetual license revenue in the first quarter of the following year. This seasonality has been, and may be in the future, adversely affected by market downturns and uncertain economic conditions. Also, term licenses entered into during a quarter may not result in recognition of associated revenue until later quarters, as we begin recognizing revenue for such licenses when the related implementation services are substantially complete. Because of the above factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily reliable indicators of future performance. Our stock price may fluctuate significantly. Like many other companies, our stock price has been subject to wide fluctuations in recent quarters as a result of market volatility. If ACV bookings, net revenues or earnings in any quarter or our financial guidance for future periods fail to meet the investment community's expectations, our stock price is likely to decline. Even if our ACV bookings, revenues or earnings meet or exceed expectations, our stock price is subject to decline in periods of high market volatility because our stock price is affected by trends in the financial services sector and by broader market trends unrelated to our performance. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions, which can be caused by many factors, including declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence; limitation on the availability or increases in the cost of credit or capital; increases in inflation, interest rates, exchange rate volatility, default rates or the price of basic commodities; corporate, political or other scandals that reduce investor confidence in capital markets; outbreaks of hostilities or other geopolitical instability; natural disasters or pandemics; or a combination of these or other factors, have adversely affected, and may in the future adversely affect, our business, profitability and stock price. Our increased emphasis on delivering our products as Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) may give rise to risks that could harm our business. Currently, we offer our suite of products to our customers on premise and over the web on an Advent-hosted or third party-hosted basis. Advent OnDemand and Black Diamond are delivered over the web as our current SaaS product offerings. We plan to continue to expand our current and future SaaS product offerings, including making them available on mobile devices, and we believe that over time our SaaS-based product offerings will comprise an increasing share of our total recurring revenues as more customers adopt SaaS as their preferred solution. The SaaS-based delivery model may vary from the way we price and deliver our products to customers on premise under term licenses. The SaaS-based model will require continued investment in product development and SaaS operations, and may give rise to a number of risks, including the following: •Increased competition from current or new SaaS-based solutions providers that offer lower priced or more advanced solutions; •Our increased focus on SaaS-based products may raise concerns among our installed, term license customer base; 20 Table of Contents •Increased price competition with current or new competitors, resulting in eroding profit margins; and •We may incur higher operating costs and customer-information security risks associated with hosting large quantities of customer information. Our outsourcing and data integration services are subject to risks that may harm our business. Our clients rely on our outsourcing and data services to meet their operational needs, including account aggregation and reconciliation. The amount and type of client-related data hosted by Advent also is substantially increasing, and we are providing outsourcing and data integration services in more jurisdictions outside the U.S. Furthermore, our business is becoming increasingly reliant on providing outsourcing and data services. This exposes the Company to many risks. In connection with cyber attacks or other attempts at unauthorized access, our security measures and those of third parties upon whom we rely could be breached, resulting in unauthorized access to our information or our clients' information. Furthermore, due to the complexity of our services and because we also utilize third party data and other vendors, our services may have undetected errors or defects, service disruptions, delays, or incomplete or incorrect data that could result in unanticipated downtime for our customers, failure to meet service levels and service disruptions. Such potential errors, defects, delays, disruptions, performance problems and security breaches may damage our clients' business, harm our reputation, result in losing future sales, cause clients to withhold payment or terminate or not renew their agreements with us, and subject us to litigation and other possible liabilities. If our relationship with Financial Times/Interactive Data is terminated, our business may be harmed. Many of our clients use our proprietary interface to retrieve pricing and other data electronically from Financial Times/Interactive Data ("FTID"). FTID pays us a commission which we classify as other recurring revenues. The commission is based on FTID's revenues from providing this data to our clients. Our software products have been customized to be compatible with their system and our software would need to be redesigned to operate with additional alternative data vendors if FTID's services were unavailable for any reason. Non-renewal of our current agreement with FTID would require at least two years' prior notice by either party and the agreement may be terminated upon 90 days' advance notice for an uncured material breach of the other party. While we have contracts with other data vendors for substantially similar financial data with which our products can be used, if our relationship with FTID was terminated or their services were unavailable to clients for any reason, we cannot be certain that we could enter into contracts with additional alternative data providers, or that other relationships would provide similar commission rates to us or if the amount of data used by our clients would remain the same, and our operating results could suffer or our resources could be constrained from the costs of redesigning our software. If our large subscription-based clients or if our revenue sharing relationships are terminated, our business may be harmed. In recent years, Advent has periodically entered into contracts relating to our subscription, data management revenue streams and outsourced services with contract values that are substantially larger than we have customarily entered into in the past. We do not know whether we will be able to continue to sign large recurring revenue contracts of this nature or if such clients will renew their contracts at similar rates and terms, if at all. For example, we expect to renew our agreement with TIAA-CREF in 2013, but at lower annual fees than the original agreement, which will result in a decrease in revenues associated with that agreement. In addition, some of these types of agreements are subject to milestones, acceptance and penalties and there is no assurance that these agreements will be fully implemented. We also have revenue sharing agreements with other companies that provide revenue to Advent for our clients' use of those companies' services and products. Our operating results could be 21 Table of Contents adversely impacted if these agreements are not fully implemented, terminated or not renewed, or if we are unable to continue to generate similar opportunities and enter similar or larger sized contracts in the future. We must recruit and retain key employees. We believe that our future success is dependent on the continued employment of our senior management and our ability to identify, attract, motivate and retain qualified technical, sales and other personnel. Members of our executive management team have acquired specialized knowledge and skills with respect to Advent. We need technical resources such as our product development engineers to develop new products and enhance existing products; we rely upon sales personnel to sell our products and services and maintain healthy business relationships; we must recruit professional service consultants to support our implementations; we must hire client services personnel to provide technical support to our growing installed base of customers; and we must attract and retain financial and accounting personnel to comply with our public company reporting requirements. We need to identify, attract, motivate and retain such employees with the requisite education, backgrounds and industry experience. However, experienced high quality personnel in the information technology industry continue to be in high demand and competition for their talents remains intense, especially in the San Francisco Bay Area where the majority of our employees are located. In addition, from time to time, we may reorganize our business or reduce our workforce, as we did in late 2012, which may result in increased difficulty in hiring and retaining qualified personnel. Such reorganizations or reductions may distract our management and employees and may negatively impact our near-term financial results. We have relied on our ability to grant equity compensation as one mechanism for recruiting and retaining such highly skilled personnel. In making employment decisions, particularly in the high-technology industries and San Francisco Bay Area, job candidates often consider the value of the equity awards they are to receive in connection with their employment and market downturns may result in our equity incentives becoming less valuable. We may also choose to create additional performance and retention incentives in order to retain our employees, including the granting of additional stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights, performance shares or performance units to employees or issuing incentive cash bonuses. Such incentives may either dilute our existing stockholder base or result in unforeseen operating expenses, which may have a material adverse effect on our operating results, could result in our stock price falling or may not be valued as highly by our employees which may create retention issues. We face challenges in expanding our operations outside the United States. We market and sell our products in the United States and, to a growing extent, outside the U.S. Revenues derived from sales outside the U.S. comprised 17%, 18% and 15% of our total revenues in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We have international subsidiaries in Hong Kong, China, Singapore, Denmark, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, England, Ireland and in the United Arab Emirates. We cannot be certain that establishing businesses in other countries will produce the desired levels of revenues. Also, worldwide and regional volatility in financial markets may disrupt our sales efforts in overseas markets. We have relatively limited experience in developing localized versions of our products and marketing and distributing our products outside the U.S. In other instances, we may rely on the efforts and abilities of business partners in such markets. For example, we previously outsourced certain engineering activities to a business partner located in China until we transitioned those contract 22 Table of Contents developers to become employees of our Beijing office. In addition, our operations are subject to other inherent risks, including: •The impact of recessions and market fluctuations in economies both within and outside the United States; •Adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates; •Greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; •Difficulty of enforcement of contractual provisions in local jurisdictions; •Unexpected changes in laws and regulatory requirements; •Trade-protection measures and export and import requirements; •Difficulties in successfully adapting our products to language, regulatory and technology standards; •Cultural resistance to expansion into other countries and difficulties establishing local partnerships or engaging local resources; •Difficulties in and costs of staffing and managing geographically dispersed operations; •Different levels of intellectual property right protections; •Sovereign debt issues; •Tax structures and potentially adverse tax consequences; and •Political and economic instability. The revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities of our subsidiaries outside the United States are primarily denominated in their respective local currencies. Future fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect revenues and accounts receivable recognized by these subsidiaries and the U.S. dollar value of related revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities reported by Advent. Our service revenues and certain license revenues from our European subsidiaries are generally denominated in their respective local currencies. Difficulties in integrating our acquisitions and expanding into new business areas have impacted and could continue to impact our business adversely and we face risks associated with potential acquisitions, investments, divestitures and expansion. Periodically we seek to grow through the acquisition of additional complementary businesses. In October 2008, we completed the acquisition of Tamale Software, Inc., which provides research management software. In March 2010, our wholly-owned Norwegian subsidiary, Advent Norway AS, acquired the entire share capital of Goya AS, a Norwegian software company that provides transfer agency-related solutions to mutual fund managers and mutual fund distributors. More recently, in February 2011, Advent Software, Inc. acquired Syncova Solutions, Ltd., a United Kingdom-based company that provides margin management and debt finance reconciliation and optimization software and in June 2011, Advent Software, Inc. acquired Black Diamond, a Florida-based company that provides web-based, outsourced portfolio management and reporting platforms for independent advisors. The process of integrating our acquisitions has required and will continue to require significant resources, particularly in light of our relative inexperience in integrating acquisitions, potential regulatory requirements and operational demands. In particular, our Tamale acquisition reflects our entry into the research management software market, where we have no prior experience. Integrating these acquisitions in the past has been time-consuming, expensive and disruptive to our business. This 23 Table of Contents integration process has strained our managerial resources, resulting in the diversion of these resources from our core business objectives, and may do so in the future. Failure to achieve the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions or to integrate the operations of these entities successfully has harmed and could potentially harm our business, results of operations and cash flows in future periods. The assumptions we made in determining the value and relative risks of these acquisitions could be erroneous. In addition, as we have expanded into new business areas and built new offerings through strategic alliances and internal development, as well as acquisitions, some of this expansion has required significant management time and resources without generating required revenues. We have had difficulty and may continue to have difficulty creating demand for such offerings. Furthermore, we may face other unanticipated costs from our acquisitions, such as disputes involving earn-out and incentive compensation amounts. We may make additional acquisitions of complementary companies, products or technologies in the future. In addition, we periodically evaluate the performance of all our products and services and may sell or discontinue current products, product lines or services, particularly as we focus on ways to streamline our operations. For example, in October 2009, we divested our MicroEdge subsidiary. Failure to achieve the anticipated benefits of any acquisition or divestiture could harm our business, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, we may have to incur debt, write-off investments, infrastructure costs or other assets, incur severance liabilities, write-off impaired goodwill or other intangible assets or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisitions. Sufficient financing may not be available to us on sufficiently advantageous terms, or at all, and if our existing credit facility is inadequate to meet our needs its existence may make it significantly more difficult to acquire any additional debt. The issuance of equity securities could dilute our existing stockholders' ownership. Finally, we may not identify suitable businesses to acquire or negotiate acceptable terms for future acquisitions. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may be subject to increased competition that could seriously harm our business. Our success depends significantly upon our proprietary technology. We currently rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret law, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. We have registered trademarks and copyrights for many of our products and services and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional trademarks and copyrights as appropriate. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, customers, resellers, vendors and others. We seek to protect our software, documentation and other written materials under trade secret and copyright laws. We also have four issued patents. Despite our efforts, existing intellectual property laws may afford only limited protection. It may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy certain portions of our products or to reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information. In addition, we cannot be certain that others will not develop or acquire substantially equivalent or superseding proprietary technology, equivalent or better products will not be marketed in competition with our products, or others may not design around any patent that we have or that may be issued to us or other intellectual property rights of ours, thereby substantially reducing the value of our proprietary rights. We cannot be sure that we will develop proprietary products or technologies that are patentable, that any patent, if issued, would provide us with any competitive advantages or would not be challenged by third parties, or that the patents of others will not adversely affect our ability to do business. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. In addition, the laws of some countries do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States and so our expansion into markets outside the U.S. may expose our proprietary rights to increased risks. Litigation may be necessary to protect our proprietary technology which may be time-consuming and expensive, 24 Table of Contents with no assurance of success. As a result, we cannot be sure that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate. If we infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we may incur additional costs or be prevented from selling our products and services. We cannot be certain that our products or services do not infringe the intellectual property rights of others. As a result, we may be subject to litigation and claims, including claims of misappropriation of trade secrets or infringement of patents, copyrights and other intellectual property rights of third parties that would be time-consuming and costly to resolve and may lead to unfavorable judgments or settlements. If we discovered that our products or services violated the intellectual property rights of third parties, we may have to make substantial changes to our products or services or obtain licenses from such third parties. We might not be able to obtain such licenses on favorable terms or at all, and we may be unable to change our products successfully or in a timely or cost-effective manner. Failure to resolve an infringement matter successfully or in a timely manner would damage our reputation and force us to incur significant costs, including payment of damages, redevelopment costs, diversion of management's attention and satisfaction of indemnification obligations that we have with our clients, as well as prevent us from selling certain products or services. Our investment portfolio may become impaired by deterioration of the capital markets. Our investment portfolio as of December 31, 2012 consisted of U.S. government, foreign government and corporate debt securities and was classified as cash equivalents and marketable securities in our consolidated balance sheets. We follow an established investment policy and set of guidelines to monitor and help mitigate our exposure to interest rate and credit risk. The policy sets forth credit quality standards and limits our exposure to any one issuer, as well as our maximum exposure to various asset classes. As a result of adverse financial market conditions, investments in some financial instruments may pose risks arising from recent market liquidity and credit concerns. As of December 31, 2012, we had no impairment charges associated with our short-term investment portfolio relating to such adverse financial market conditions. Although we believe our current investment portfolio has very little risk of material impairment, we cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity and can provide no assurance that our investment portfolio will remain materially unimpaired. In addition, the decrease in interest rates has materially decreased the interest income we receive on our investments. Catastrophic events could adversely affect our business. We are a highly automated business and rely on our network infrastructure and enterprise applications, internal technology systems and our website for our development, marketing, operational, support, and sales activities. A disruption or failure of these systems in the event of major earthquake, fire, telecommunications failure, cyber-attack, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event could cause system interruptions, reputational harm, delays in our product development and loss of critical data and could affect our ability to sell and deliver products and services and other critical functions of our business. Our corporate headquarters, a significant portion of our research and development activities, our data centers and certain other critical business operations are located in the San Francisco Bay Area, which is a region of seismic activity. We have developed certain disaster recovery plans and certain backup systems to reduce the potentially adverse effect of such events, but a catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our data centers or our critical business or information technology systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our future operating results could be adversely affected. Further, such disruptions could cause further instability in the financial markets or the spending of our clients and prospects upon which we depend. 25 Table of Contents In addition to the severe market conditions in recent years, other catastrophic events such as abrupt political change, terrorist acts, conflicts or wars may cause damage or disruption to the economy, financial markets and our customers. The potential for future attacks, the responses to attacks or perceived threats to national security and other actual or potential conflicts, wars or political unrest have created many economic and political uncertainties in various countries and regions in which we operate. Although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, they could unsettle the financial markets or result in a decline in information technology spending, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues. Undetected errors or failures found in new products and services may result in loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products and services that could seriously harm our business. Our products and services may contain undetected errors or scalability limitations at any point in their lives, but particularly when first introduced or as new versions are released. We frequently release new versions of our products, such as during 2012, when we released new versions of APX, Axys, Geneva, Moxy and Tamale RMS, among others. Despite testing by us and by current and potential customers, errors may not be found in new products and services until after commencement of commercial shipments or use, resulting in a loss of or a delay in market acceptance, damage to our reputation, customer dissatisfaction and reductions in revenues and margins, any of which could seriously harm our business. Additionally, our agreements with customers that attempt to limit our exposure to liability claims may not be enforceable in jurisdictions where we operate, particularly as we expand into new markets outside the U.S. Two of our principal stockholders have an influence over our business affairs and may make business decisions with which you disagree and which may adversely affect the value of your investment. Our founder and the chairman of our board of directors own or control, indirectly or directly, a substantial number of shares of our common stock (approximately 6% and 31%, respectively, as of January 31, 2013). As a result, if these parties were to act together, they would have the ability to exert significant influence on matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, such as the election or removal of directors, amendments to our certificate of incorporation or the approval of a business combination. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by other stockholders or it may be difficult to approve these actions without their consent. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company or discouraging others from making tender offers for our shares, which could prevent our stockholders from receiving a premium for their shares. Changes in securities laws and regulations may increase our costs or may harm demand. Most of our customers operate within a highly regulated environment. In light of the recent conditions in the U.S. financial markets and economy, Congress and regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. The information provided by, or resident in, the software or services we provide to our customers could be deemed relevant to a regulatory investigation or other governmental or private legal proceeding involving our customers, which could result in requests for information from us that could be expensive and time consuming for us. In addition, clients subject to investigations or legal proceedings may be adversely impacted possibly leading to their liquidation, bankruptcy, receivership, reductions in Assets Under Management or Assets Under Administration, or diminished operations that would adversely affect our revenues and collection of receivables. Our customers must comply with governmental, self-regulatory organization and other rules, regulations, directives and standards. New legislation or changes in such rules, regulations, directives or standards may reduce demand for our services or increase our expenses. We develop, configure and 26 Table of Contents market products and services to assist customers in meeting these requirements. New legislation, or a significant change in rules, regulations, directives or standards, could cause our services to become obsolete, reduce demand for our services or increase our expenses in order to continue providing services to clients. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Protection Act of 2010 ("Dodd-Frank Act") represents a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services industry within the United States, established the new federal Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (the "BCFP"), and requires the BCFP and other federal agencies to implement many new rules. While the general framework of the reforms is set forth in the Dodd-Frank Act, it provides for numerous studies and reports and the adoption and implementation of rules and regulations by regulatory agencies over the following four years to clarify and implement the Dodd-Frank Act's requirements fully. We believe that it is too early to know the precise long-term impact on our business of the increased regulation of financial institutions. While it could lead to increased demand for Advent's products and services, demand could be negatively impacted by the deferral of purchase decisions by our customers until the new regulations have been adopted and the full impact and expense of the new regulatory environment is more clearly understood. The Dodd-Frank Act contains numerous other provisions affecting financial institutions of all types, many of which may have an impact on our operating environment in substantial and unpredictable ways. Additionally, as a publicly-traded company, we are subject to significant regulations including the Dodd-Frank Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ("the Sarbanes-Oxley Act"). These regulations increase our accounting, operating and legal compliance costs and could also expose us to additional liability if we fail to comply with these or other new rules and reporting requirements. There are also significant corporate governance and executive compensation-related provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act that require the SEC to adopt additional rules and regulations in these areas, which may further increase our costs. Changes in, or interpretations of, accounting principles could result in unfavorable accounting charges. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP"). These principles are subject to interpretation by us, the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create accounting principles and guidance. A change in these principles or a change in the interpretations of these principles can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even retroactively affect previously reported transactions. Additionally, proposed accounting standards could have a significant impact on our operational processes, revenues and expenses, and could cause unexpected financial reporting fluctuations. Some of our accounting principles that have been or may be affected include: •Software revenue recognition; •Accounting for stock-based compensation; •Accounting for income taxes; and •Accounting for business combinations and related goodwill. For example, the U.S.-based Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") is currently working together with the International Accounting Standards Board ("IASB") on several projects intended to further align accounting principles and facilitate more comparable financial reporting between companies who are required to follow GAAP under SEC regulations and those who are required to follow International Financial Reporting Standards ("IFRS") outside of the U.S. These efforts by the FASB and IASB may result in different accounting principles under GAAP that may result in different financial results for us in areas including, but not limited to, principles for recognizing revenue, lease 27 Table of Contents accounting and financial statement presentation. A change in accounting principles may have a material impact on our financial statements and may retroactively adversely affect previously reported transactions. Changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations may adversely affect our effective tax rates. We are a U.S.-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and Non-U.S. tax jurisdictions. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates could affect our future results of operations. Our future effective tax rates could be unfavorably affected by changes in, or interpretation of, tax rules and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we do business, by unanticipated decreases in the amount of revenue or earnings in countries with low statutory tax rates, by lapses of the availability of the U.S. research and development tax credit, or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. In addition, we could be subject to examination of our income tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities outside the U.S. These examinations would be expected to focus on areas where considerable judgment is exercised by the Company. We regularly assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from an examination to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes and have reserved for potential adjustments that may result from an examination. We believe such estimates to be reasonable; however, there can be no assurance that the final determination of any of these examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. Borrowings under our credit agreement must be repaid if we fail to comply with certain covenants. In November 2011, we entered into a credit agreement which provides us credit for an aggregate amount of $150.0 million. We have in the past, and may in the future, borrow under credit agreements in order to fund working capital requirements, make share repurchases of our common stock or fund acquisitions. In addition, if our anticipated cash flow from our recurring sources of revenue is materially impaired due to customer defaults or failure to renew term licenses, other recurring agreements or maintenance contracts, our ability to borrow under credit agreements, or continue to meet the contractual covenants, may be compromised. Our continued ability to borrow under our credit agreement is subject to compliance with certain financial and non-financial covenants. The financial covenants require us to maintain compliance with a consolidated leverage ratio, a consolidated interest coverage ratio and a minimum level of liquidity. Our failure to comply with such covenants could cause default under the agreement, and we may then be required to repay such debt with capital from other sources. Under those circumstances, other sources of capital may not be available to us, or be available only on unfavorable terms. In the event of a default which is not remedied within the prescribed timeframe, the assets of the Company (subject to the amount borrowed) may be attached or seized by the lender. Security risks may harm our business. Maintaining the security of computers, computer networks, hosted solutions and the transmission of confidential information over public networks, and protecting against cyber attacks and other cyber incidents, is essential to commerce and communications, particularly in the market in which Advent operates. Efforts of others to seek unauthorized access to Advent's or its clients' information, computers and networks or introduce viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that disable or impair computers into our systems or those of our customers or other third parties, could disrupt or make our systems and services inaccessible or allow access to proprietary information and data of Advent or its clients. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments, could also be used by those seeking such unauthorized access and result in compromises or breaches of the security of our systems, products or services. Our 28 Table of Contents security measures may be inadequate to prevent cyber attacks and other security breaches, exposing us to a risk of data loss, financial loss, harm to reputation, business interruption, litigation and other possible liabilities, as well as possibly requiring us to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. Potential changes in securities laws and regulations governing the investment industry's use of soft dollars may reduce our revenues. Some of our clients utilized trading commissions ("soft dollar arrangements") to pay for software products and services. During each of fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, the total value of Advent products and services paid with soft dollars was approximately 3% of our total billings. Such soft dollar arrangements could be impacted by changes in the regulations governing those arrangements. In July 2006, the SEC published an Interpretive Release that provides guidance on money managers' use of client commissions to pay for brokerage and research services under the safe harbor set forth in Section 28(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Interpretive Release clarifies that money managers may use client commissions ("soft dollars") to pay only for eligible brokerage and research services. Among other matters, the Interpretive Release states that eligible brokerage includes those products and services that relate to the execution of the trade from the point at which the money manager communicates with the broker-dealer for the purpose of transmitting an order for execution, through the point at which funds or securities are delivered or credited to the advised account. In addition, for potentially "mixed-use" items (such as trade order management systems) that are partly eligible and partly ineligible, the Interpretive Release states that money managers must make a reasonable allocation of client commissions in accordance with the eligible and ineligible uses of the items. Based on this guidance, our customers may change their method of paying all or a portion of certain Advent products or services from soft to hard dollars, and as a result reduce their usage of these products or services in order to avoid increasing expenses, which could cause our revenues to decrease. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or our filings may not be timely. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our stock. Effective internal control is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our business and operating results could be harmed. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal control that need improvement including control deficiencies that may constitute material weaknesses. We do not expect that our internal control over financial reporting will prevent all errors or fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. Over time, controls may become inadequate because changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may occur. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Any failure to implement or maintain improvements in our internal control over financial reporting, or difficulties encountered in the implementation of these improvements in our controls, could cause significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls and consequently cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Any failure to implement or maintain required new 29 Table of Contents or improved internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative impact on the trading price of our stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 