Item 1a. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the following factors, as well as the other information that we include or incorporate by reference in this report, in evaluating an investment in our securities. To make the discussion of these factors easier to read, when we discuss the Company we refer to it as “we.” If Metal Halide Lighting Does Not Gain Wider Market Acceptance, Our Business and Financial Performance May Suffer We derive a substantial portion of our net sales and income from selling metal halide materials, systems and components, and production equipment. Revenues from metal halide products represented approximately 82% of net sales in fiscal 2006 and 80% of net sales in fiscal 2005. Our current operations and growth strategy are focused on metal halide lighting and optical coating technologies. Metal halide lamp sales represented approximately 11.3% of domestic lamp sales in calendar year 2005 compared to 10.8% in calendar 2004 and compared to fluorescent and incandescent lamps which represented approximately 84.0% of the same market in 2005 and 84.4% in 2004. Our future results are dependent upon continued growth of metal halide lighting for these and other uses. However, metal halide lamps are not compatible with the substantial installed base of incandescent and fluorescent lighting fixtures, and the installation of a metal halide lighting system typically involves higher initial costs than incandescent and fluorescent lighting systems. Metal halide products may not continue to gain market share within the overall lighting market or competitors may introduce better lighting technologies, displacing metal halide lighting in the market. Either of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business and our results of operations and the value of our securities. 15 Table of Contents Our Degree of Indebtedness Could Limit Our Ability to Grow and React to Changes in Market Conditions At June 30, 2006, we had approximately $128.2 million of total indebtedness outstanding and $31.0 million of preferred stock and common shareholders’ equity. At June 30, 2006, we also had $16.3 million available (subject to borrowing base compliance and other limitations) to be drawn under our Secured Credit Facility. The indenture under which we have issued our debt securities permits us and our subsidiaries to incur substantial amounts of additional indebtedness in the future. The degree to which we are leveraged could have important consequences to holders of our securities, including the following: • our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be limited, and • our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in market conditions may be limited, causing us to be more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business. Control of Our Stock by One Principal Shareholder Will Allow It To Control Selection of the Board of Directors and Determine Shareholder Actions Unilaterally, Which Could Adversely Affect Interests of Other Holders of Our Securities Pursuant to the Company’s Plan of Reorganization, the Company’s Common Stock, which had been registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, was cancelled and Saratoga Lighting Holdings, LLC (“Saratoga”) became the owner of 100% of the voting securities of the Company. Subsequently shares of Company Preferred Stock and Common Stock were sold to a director of the Company and shares of Common Stock were sold to five executive officers of the Company. However, Saratoga’s shares, and shares as to which Saratoga has voting power, represent approximately 98.9% of total shareholder voting. As a result, Saratoga will be able to control all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors (which could control our affairs and our management), amendments to our articles of incorporation, mergers, share exchanges, the sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other fundamental transactions. Accordingly, the decisions of Saratoga could have a material adverse effect on the value of our debt securities. We Must Pay or Refinance Substantial Unsecured Indebtedness Within Five Years Pursuant to our Plan of Reorganization, our 8% Senior Notes due 2008 were exchanged for $114.4 million principal amount of 11% Senior Notes due March 31, 2009 (the “New Notes”). Prior to maturity, the Company is obligated to pay interest only on the New Notes. The terms of the Indenture governing the New Notes permit the Company to purchase or redeem the New Notes in whole or part prior to maturity, however, pursuant to our secured Credit Facility, certain purchases or redemption would require the consent of the lenders under that Facility. The Company’s current level of cash flow from operations would not generate cash adequate to retire the New Notes at maturity. As a result, the Company anticipates that it will have to obtain refinancing of a substantial portion of the Senior Notes by March 2009. The Company anticipates that such refinancing will be available on favorable terms, based on current operating performance. However, changes in credit markets or the Company’s operating performance could make it difficult or impossible to obtain such refinancing. 16 Table of Contents Our Growth Objectives Strain Our Resources Our acquisitions and divestitures placed a strain on our management, employees, finances and operations, which was a contributing factor in our decision to seek reorganization. We have set growth objectives for net sales and net income in our businesses which may strain our resources. These objectives may be difficult to achieve. To achieve these objectives, we will seek to develop new products and new uses for our products and seek to expand our distribution capabilities. We may also seek to acquire and/or invest in related businesses inside and outside of the United States. Any of our efforts in pursuit of these objectives may expose us to risks that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. To manage growth effectively, we must continue to implement changes in many aspects of our business; expand our information systems; increase the capacity and productivity of our materials, components, systems and production equipment operations; develop our metal halide systems capability; and hire, develop, train and manage an increasing number of managerial, production and other employees. Also, we may extend our product lines through acquisitions or other investments. The success of these investments will depend, to a significant extent, on the integration of the acquired operations with our existing operations. If we are unable to anticipate or manage growth effectively, our operating results could be adversely affected. Likewise, if we are unable to successfully integrate acquired operations and manage expenses and risks associated with integrating the administration and information systems of acquired companies, our operating results could be adversely affected. The Extent of Our International Business Operations Could Hurt Our Performance We have derived, and expect to derive in the future, a substantial portion of our net sales from our international business. Revenues from customers outside of the United States represented approximately 46% of our net sales for fiscal 2006. Operations in India, including the magnetic power supply business which we have agreed to sell, now produce substantially all of our component products. Our international operations and sales are subject to the risks inherent in doing business abroad, including delays in shipments, adverse fluctuations in currency exchange rates, increases in import duties and tariffs, and changes in foreign regulations and political climate. We have granted and will grant operations in foreign countries rights to use our technology. While we will attempt to protect our intellectual property rights in these foreign operations, the laws of many countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Approximately 33% of our net sales in fiscal 2006 were denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, principally pounds sterling, Australian dollars and Canadian dollars. A significant weakening of these currencies versus the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and, therefore, holders of our securities. The Company uses derivatives to minimize foreign currency exposure on certain receivables and payable balances. However, the Company does not hedge exposure to the effect of currency movements on future sales and margins. If We Are Unable to Protect Our Important Patents and Trade Secrets or If Others Enforce Rights Against Us, Our Business May Suffer We rely primarily on trade secret, trademark and patent laws to protect some of our rights to our products, like proprietary manufacturing processes and technologies, product research, concepts and trademarks. These rights are important to the success of our products and our competitive position. The actions that we take to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products, processes or technology. Our proprietary information may become known to competitors; we may not be able to effectively protect our rights to non-patented proprietary information; and others may 17 Table of Contents independently develop substantially equivalent or better products that do not infringe on our intellectual property rights. Other parties may assert rights in, and ownership of, our patents and other proprietary rights. Any of these developments could adversely affect the way we currently conduct our business. The patent positions of companies such as ADLT and its subsidiaries can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions, and therefore the breadth of claims allowed in such patents and their enforceability cannot be predicted. Therefore, we cannot assure you that the claims in any existing or subsequently issued patent will be sufficient to protect ADLT’s or its subsidiaries intellectual property; or that such patent will not be challenged, invalidated, held unenforceable or circumvented; or that the rights granted thereunder will provide proprietary protection or competitive advantages. Any litigation involving misappropriation of our trade secrets or other intellectual property rights could require us to increase significantly the resources devoted to such efforts. In addition, an adverse determination in litigation could subject us to the loss of our rights to a particular trade secret, trademark or patent; could require us to grant licenses to third parties; could prevent us from manufacturing, selling or using related aspects of our products; or could subject us to substantial liability. Because we are a company that relies on advanced technology and innovation, any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If We Are Unable to Develop and Broaden Product Lines, or If Prices Decrease in Key Product Lines, Our Business May Suffer We may not be successful in adding new products to our current product categories or in developing new categories of products. If we are unable to successfully add new products or develop new product categories, this could adversely affect our future growth and financial results. Our market and technology leadership in metal halide salts has been an important part of our growth and financial results. An increasing amount of the world’s metal halide component production is located in lower-cost production areas of the world, especially Asia. This trend is anticipated to continue. Metal halide lamp manufacturers in Asia and elsewhere are seeking lower costs, including in their raw materials, from us and alternative suppliers. Significant decreases in selling prices of metal halide salts could have a material adverse effect on our results and operations. Because Our Primary Competitors Are More Established and Have More Resources Than We Do, We May Lack the Resources to Capture Increased Market Share We compete with respect to our major lighting products with numerous well-established producers of materials, components, and systems and equipment, many of which possess greater financial, manufacturing, marketing and distribution resources than we do. In addition, many of these competitors’ products utilize technology that has been broadly accepted in the marketplace (i.e., incandescent and fluorescent lighting) and is better known to consumers than is our metal halide technology. We compete with GE, Philips and Osram in the sale of metal halide lamps. We estimate, based on published industry data, that these three companies had a combined domestic market share of approximately 85% for metal halide lamps based on units sold and approximately 95% of the total domestic lamp market. Accordingly, these companies dominate the lamp industry and exert significant influence over the channels through which all lamp products, including ours, are distributed and sold. Our component products and systems also face strong competition, particularly in the power supply market, in which our two largest competitors, Advance Transformer Co. (a division of Philips) and Magnetek, Inc., each have a larger market share than we do. Our competitors may increase their focus on metal halide materials, systems and components, and expand their product lines to compete with our products. This type of increase or expansion could make it more difficult for us to maintain sales or grow. 18 Table of Contents We Sell Products to Our Competitors and Purchase Components from Our Competitors, and These Relationships Could Change Based on Our Competitors’ Interests. This Creates a Risk of Potential Declines in Sales and Reduced Access to Components. Although we compete with GE, Philips and Osram in the sale of our lighting products, we also purchase a significant quantity of raw materials and private label lamps from these three companies (aggregating $4.6 million in fiscal 2006) and derive significant revenue from sales of our materials, components, and systems to each of these three companies (aggregating $22.5 million in fiscal 2006). Any significant change in our relationships with these companies, or in the manner in which these companies participate in the manufacturing, distribution, and sale of metal halide lighting products, could have a material adverse effect on our business and, in turn, holders of our securities. 