Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our publicly traded securities. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as competition, technological obsolescence, labor relations, general economic conditions, geopolitical changes and international operations. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business operations and our liquidity. The risks described below could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements we have made in this Report, the information incorporated herein by reference and those forward-looking statements we may make from time to time. 10 Table of Contents Certain Risks Related to Our Marketplace and Environment Our revenue from the sale of computer aided design modeling and simulation software to the life science discovery research marketplace, which has historically constituted a significant portion of our overall revenue, has been declining over the past several years and may continue to decline in future years. Historically we have derived a significant portion of our revenue from the sale of computer aided design modeling and simulation software to the discovery research departments in pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Based on recurring analyses of incoming orders typically conducted by our sales and marketing departments, we estimate that orders for our computer aided design modeling and simulation software for the life science industry declined approximately 18% between fiscal year 2008 and 2009, approximately 16% between fiscal year 2009 and 2010, approximately 21% during the nine months ended December 31, 2010 . While there is not a linear correlation between product orders and resulting revenue, we believe that our estimates of decreased product orders ultimately reflect a decline in revenue attributable to sales of our computer aided design modeling and simulation software products. We believe this decline is due to several factors, including industry consolidation, a general reduction in the level of discovery research activity by our customers, increased competition, including competition from open source software, and reductions in profit and related information technology spending by our customers. If such declines continue and we do not increase the revenue we derive from our other product and service offerings, our business could be adversely impacted. Our ability to sustain or increase revenues will depend upon our success in entering new markets and in deriving additional revenues from our existing customers. Our products are currently used primarily by molecular modeling and simulation specialists in discovery research organizations. One component of our overall business strategy is to derive more revenues from our existing customers by expanding their usage of our products and services. Such strategy would have our customers utilize our scientific informatics platform and our tools and components to leverage vast amounts of information stored in both corporate databases and public data sources in order to make informed scientific and business decisions during the research and development process. In addition, we seek to expand into new markets and new areas within our existing markets by acquiring businesses in these markets, attracting and retaining personnel knowledgeable in these markets, identifying the needs of these markets and developing marketing programs to address these needs. If successfully implemented, these strategies would increase the usage of our software and services by biologists, chemists, engineers and informaticians operating within our existing pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers, as well as by new customers in other industries. However, if our strategies are not successfully implemented, our products and services may not achieve market acceptance or penetration in targeted new departments within our existing customers or in new industries. As a result, we may incur additional costs and expend additional resources without being able to sustain or increase revenue. Our focus on offering scientific business intelligence solutions to both existing and new customers and markets may make it more difficult for us to sustain our revenue from the sale of computer aided design modeling and simulation products to the life science discovery research marketplace. Our strategy involves transforming our product and service offerings by utilizing our scientific informatics platform and our tools and components in order to enable our customers to more effectively utilize the vast amounts of information stored in both their databases and public data sources in order to make informed scientific and business decisions during the research and development process. This strategy is intended to lead us to new and different markets and customers, as well as increase the usage of our offerings by existing customers. Executing this strategy will require significant management focus and utilization of resources. Though we intend to continue to dedicate sufficient resources and management focus to our life science computer aided design modeling and simulation products, it is possible that the strategy will result in loss of management focus and resources relating to these existing products and markets, thereby resulting in decreasing revenues from these markets. If these revenues are not offset by increasing revenues from new markets and/or customers, our overall revenues will suffer. We may be unable to develop strategic relationships with our customers. Our overall business strategy is to expand usage of our products and services by expanding our current customers’ usage of our products and by 11 Table of Contents marketing and distributing our solutions to a broader, more diversified group of biologists, chemists, engineers and informaticians operating throughout our customers’ research and development organizations. A key component of this strategy is to become a preferred provider of scientific software and solutions. Becoming a preferred provider will require substantial re-training and new skills development within our sales and service personnel and deployment of a successful account-management sales model. We believe that developing strategic relationships with our customers may lead to additional revenue opportunities. However, executing this strategy may require significant expense, and there can be no assurance that any such relationships will develop or that such relationships will produce additional revenue or profit opportunities. Consolidation within the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries may continue to lead to fewer potential customers for our products and services. A significant portion of our customer base consists of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Continued consolidation within the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries may result in fewer customers for our products and services. If one of the parties to a consolidation uses the products or services of our competitors, we may lose existing customers as a result of such consolidation. Increasing competition and increasing costs within the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries may affect the demand for our products and services, which may affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers’ demand for our products is impacted by continued demand for their products and by our customers’ research and development costs. Demand for our customers’ products could decline, and prices charged by our customers for their products may decline, as a result of increasing competition, including competition from companies manufacturing generic drugs. In addition, our customers’ expenses could continue to increase as a result of increasing costs of complying with government regulations and other factors. A decrease in demand for our customers’ products, pricing pressures associated with the sales of these products and additional costs associated with product development could cause our customers to reduce research and development expenditures. Because our products and services depend on such research and development expenditures, our revenues may be significantly reduced. Health care reform and restrictions on reimbursement may affect the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and industrial chemical companies that purchase or license our products or services, which may affect our results of operations and financial condition. The continuing efforts of government and third party payers in the markets we serve to contain or reduce the cost of health care may reduce the profitability of pharmaceutical, biotechnology and industrial chemical companies causing them to reduce research and development expenditures. Because some of our products and services depend on such research and development expenditures, our revenues may be significantly reduced. We cannot predict what actions federal, state or private payers for health care goods and services may take in response to any health care reform proposals or legislation. We face strong competition in the life science market for computer aided design modeling and simulation software and for cheminformatics products. The market for our computer aided design modeling and simulation software products for the life science market is intensely competitive. We currently face competition from other scientific software providers, larger technology and solutions companies, in-house development by our customers and academic and government institutions and the open source community. Some of our competitors and potential competitors in this sector have longer operating histories than we do and could have greater financial, technical, marketing, research and development and other resources. Many of our competitors offer products and services directed at more specific markets than those we target, enabling these competitors to focus a greater proportion of their efforts and resources on these markets. Some offerings that compete with our products are developed and made available at lower cost by government organizations and academic institutions, and these entities may be able to devote substantial resources to product development and also offer their products to users for little or no charge. We also face competition from open source software initiatives, in which developers provide software and intellectual property free over the Internet. In addition, many of our customers spend significant internal resources in order to develop their own software. Moreover, we 12 Table of Contents intend to leverage our scientific informatics platform in order to enable our customers to more effectively utilize the vast amounts of information stored in both their databases and public data sources in order to make informed scientific and business decisions during the research and development process. This strategy could lead to competition from much larger companies which provide general data storage and management software. There can be no assurance that our current or potential competitors will not develop products, services or technologies that are comparable to, superior to or render obsolete, the products, services and technologies we offer. There can be no assurance that our competitors will not adapt more quickly than us to technological advances and customer demands, thereby increasing such competitors’ market share relative to ours. Any material decrease in demand for our technologies or services may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to pricing pressures in some of the markets we serve. The market for computer aided design modeling and simulation products for the life science industry is intensely competitive, which has led to significant pricing pressure and declines in average selling price over the past several years. Based on recurring analyses of incoming orders typically conducted by our sales and marketing departments, we estimate that the average sales price of our computer aided design modeling and simulation products for the life science industry declined approximately 10% between fiscal year 2008 and 2009, approximately 14% between fiscal year 2009 and 2010. While there is not a linear correlation between our product pricing and competition in the marketplace, we believe that our estimates of decreased prices ultimately reflect increased competition that has led and may continue to lead to pricing pressure with respect to sales of these products. In response to such increased competition and general adverse economic conditions in this market, we may be required to further modify our pricing practices. Changes in our pricing model could adversely affect our revenue and earnings. Revenue from our database content business has been declining and may continue to decline. As a result of the Symyx Merger, we have acquired a database content business. This business faces intense competition from both third parties and the increasing availability of freely-available content databases. As a result, revenue from this database content business has been declining. If we are unable to reverse the decline in this business or to increase revenues from our other businesses in order to offset the decline, our revenues and results of operations may suffer. Our operations may be interrupted by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event at our primary facilities. Our research and development operations and administrative functions are primarily conducted at our facilities in San Diego, California, San Ramon, California, Bend, Oregon, and Cambridge, United Kingdom. We also conduct sales and customer support activities at our facilities in Bedminster, New Jersey, Burlington, Massachusetts, Paris, France, Basel, Switzerland, and Tokyo, Japan. Although we have contingency plans in effect for natural disasters or other catastrophic events, the occurrence of such events could still disrupt our operations. For example, our San Diego, San Ramon, Santa Clara and Tokyo facilities are located in areas that are particularly susceptible to earthquakes. Any natural disaster or catastrophic event in our facilities or the areas in which they are located could have a significant negative impact on our operations. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to avoid material impact on our financial position or results of operations resulting from claims or liabilities against us, and we may not be able to obtain insurance coverage in the future. We maintain insurance coverage for protection against many risks of liability. The extent of our insurance coverage is under continuous review and is modified as we deem it necessary. Despite this insurance, it is possible that claims or liabilities against us may have a material adverse impact on our financial position or results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to obtain any insurance coverage, or adequate insurance coverage, when our existing insurance coverage expires. For example, we do not carry earthquake insurance for our facilities in Tokyo, Japan, San Ramon, California, Santa Clara, California or San Diego, California, because we do not believe the costs of such insurance are reasonable in relation to the potential risk. 13 Table of Contents Certain Risks Related to Our Operations Defects or malfunctions in our products could hurt our reputation among our customers, result in delayed or lost revenue and expose us to liability. Our business and the level of customer acceptance of our products depend upon the continuous, effective and reliable operation of our software and related tools and functions. To the extent that defects cause our software to malfunction and our customers’ use of our products is interrupted, our reputation could suffer and our revenue could decline or be delayed while such defects are remedied. We may also be subject to liability for the defects and malfunctions of third party technology partners and others with whom our products and services are integrated. Delays in the release of new or enhanced products or services or undetected errors in our products or services may result in increased cost to us, delayed market acceptance of our products and delayed or lost revenue. To achieve market acceptance, new or enhanced products or services can require long development and testing periods, which may result in delays in scheduled introduction. Any delays in the release schedule for new or enhanced products or services may delay market acceptance of these products or services and may result in delays in new customer orders for these new or enhanced products or services or the loss of customer orders. In addition, new or enhanced products or services may contain a number of undetected errors or “bugs” when they are first released. Although we test each new or enhanced software product or service before it is released to the market, there can be no assurance that significant errors will not be found in existing or future releases. As a result, in the months following the introduction of certain releases, we may need to devote significant resources to correct these errors. There can be no assurance, however, that all of these errors can be corrected. We are subject to risks associated with the operation of a global business. We derive a significant portion of our total revenue from our operations in international markets. During the year ended December 31, 2011, nine months ended December 31, 2010 and in fiscal years 2010 and 2009, 53%, 51%,54% and 52%, respectively, of our total revenue was derived from our international operations. Our global business may be affected by local economic conditions, including inflation, recession and currency exchange rate fluctuations. In addition, political and economic changes throughout the world may interfere with our or our customers’ activities in particular locations and result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We anticipate that revenue from operations in international markets will continue to account for a significant percentage of future revenue. The following table depicts our region-specific revenue as a percentage of total revenue for the periods referenced: Year Ended Nine MonthsEnded Years Ended Region December 31,2011 December 31,2010 March 31,2010 March 31,2009 U.S. 47 % 49 % 46 % 48 % Europe 29 % 28 % 30 % 28 % Asia-Pacific 24 % 23 % 24 % 24 % Other potential risks inherent in our international business include: • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • longer payment cycles; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • import and export license requirements; • tariffs and other barriers; • political unrest, terrorism and economic instability; • disruption of our operations due to local labor conditions; 14 Table of Contents • limited intellectual property protection; • difficulties in collecting trade receivables; • difficulties in managing distributors or representatives; • difficulties in managing an organization spread over various countries; • difficulties in staffing foreign subsidiary or joint venture operations; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and address these risks. There can be no assurance that we will do so effectively, or that these or other factors relating to our international operations will not adversely affect our business or operating results. In order to improve our financial position, we have reduced our headcount, both prior to and as a result of the Symyx Merger, which could negatively impact our business. We have undergone several reductions-in-force over the past several years, and our workforce has declined approximately 25% from March 31, 2006 to July 1, 2010 when we completed the Symyx Merger. In addition, as a result of the Symyx Merger, we implemented a reduction in force of approximately 15% of the combined employee workforce after the Symyx Merger. We do not believe that these reductions have had a material adverse effect on our operations or our ability to generate revenue to date. However, while we believe we have sufficient staff to operate our business, we do not have duplicative or redundant resources in many of our functions or operations. As a result, there can be no assurance that further attrition will not impact our ability to operate our business, or adversely impact our revenues. Failure to attract and retain skilled personnel, could have a material adverse effect on us. Our success depends in part on the continued service of key scientific, sales, business development, marketing, engineering, management and accounting personnel and our ability to identify, hire and retain additional personnel. There is intense competition for qualified personnel. Immigration laws may further restrict our ability to attract or hire qualified personnel. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the development of our business. Failure to attract and retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, we are highly dependent on the principal members of our technical, scientific and management staff and certain groups of consultants. One or more of these key employees or consultants could retire or otherwise leave our employ within the foreseeable future, and the loss of any of these people could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We do not intend to maintain key person life insurance on the life of any employee. Continued turmoil in the worldwide financial markets may negatively impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition. As widely reported, financial markets in the U.S., Europe and Asia have been experiencing disruption in recent years, including, among other things, volatility in security prices, declining valuations of certain investments, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, the failure or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of government intervention. Many economists believe that the U.S. economy, and possibly the global economy, is in the midst of a prolonged recession. This protracted downturn may hurt our business in a number of ways, including through general decreases in spending and the adverse impact on our customers’ ability to obtain financing, which may lead to delays or failures in our signing customer agreements or signing customer agreements at reduced purchase levels. While we are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruption in the financial markets and the adverse economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries, any of the circumstances mentioned above could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, financial condition and results of operations. Recent acquisitions and potential future acquisitions could prove difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and strain our resources. Since July 2010, we have acquired three 15 Table of Contents companies: Symyx, Contur and VelQuest. We continually evaluate opportunities to acquire new businesses as part of our ongoing strategy and we may in the future acquire additional businesses that we believe could complement or expand our business or increase our customer base. We do not know if we will be able to complete any future acquisitions, or whether we will be able to successfully integrate any acquired businesses, operate them profitably or retain their key employees. Integrating the operations of acquired businesses successfully or otherwise realizing any of the anticipated benefits of any acquisitions, including anticipated cost savings and additional revenue opportunities, involves a number of potential challenges. The failure to meet these integration challenges could seriously harm our financial condition and results of operations. Realizing the benefits of the Acquisitions or any future acquisitions depends in part on the integration of operations and personnel. These integration activities are complex, expensive and time-consuming and we may encounter unexpected difficulties or incur unexpected costs, including: • our inability to achieve the operating synergies anticipated in the acquisitions; • lost sales and customers as a result of our customers or customers of any acquired company deciding not to do business us; • complexities associated with managing the larger, more complex, combined business; • integrating personnel from acquired companies while maintaining focus on providing consistent, high quality products; • potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen expenses, delays or regulatory conditions associated with acquisitions; and • diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns to integration matters. Acquired businesses may have liabilities or adverse operating issues that we fail to discover through due diligence prior to the acquisition. In particular, to the extent that prior owners of any acquired businesses or properties failed to comply with or otherwise violated applicable laws or regulations, or failed to fulfill their contractual obligations, we, as the successor owner, may be financially responsible for these violations and failures and may suffer reputational harm or otherwise be adversely affected. Acquisitions also frequently result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets which are subject to potential impairment in the future that could harm our financial results. As a result, if we fail to properly evaluate acquisitions or investments, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of any such acquisitions, and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate. In addition, in order to finance any acquisition, we may utilize our existing funds, thereby lowering the amount of funds we currently have, or might need to raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt financings. Prolonged tightening of the financial markets may impact our ability to obtain financing to fund future acquisitions and we could be forced to obtain financing on less than favorable terms. Additionally, equity financings may result in dilution to our stockholders, which could affect the market price of our stock. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss (“NOL”) and tax credit carryforwards in the future is limited by Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). In general, under Sections 382 and 383 of the Code, a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change NOL and tax credit carryforwards to offset future taxable income. In general, an ownership change occurs if the aggregate stock ownership of certain stockholders increases by more than 50 percentage points over such stockholders’ lowest percentage ownership during the testing period (which is generally three years). The amount of the annual limitation is generally equal to the value of the stock of the corporation immediately prior to the ownership change, multiplied by the adjusted federal tax-exempt rate set by the Internal Revenue Service. As a result of the Symyx Merger, Accelrys and Symyx have undergone an “ownership change” for purposes of Section 382 of the Code. Accordingly, the combined company’s ability to utilize Accelrys’s and Symyx’s 16 Table of Contents NOLs and tax credit carryforwards will be limited as described in the preceding paragraph. These limitations could in turn result in increased future tax payments for the combined company, which could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition or results of operations of the combined company. Certain Risks Related To Our Financial Performance We have a history of losses and our future profitability is uncertain. We generated net losses for the nine months ended December 31, 2010, and the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006. Although we generated net income for the years ended December 31, 2011, March 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, we may experience future net losses which may limit our ability to fund our operations and we may not generate income from operations in the future. Our future profitability depends upon many factors, including several that are beyond our control. These factors include without limitation: • changes in the demand for our products and services; • the introduction of competitive software; • our ability to license desirable technologies; • changes in the research and development budgets of our customers and potential customers; • our ability to successfully, cost effectively and timely develop, introduce and market new products, services and product enhancements; and • the acquisition of any new entities or businesses which may have a dilutive effect upon our earnings. Our sales forecast and/or revenue projections may not be accurate. We use a “pipeline” system, a common industry practice, to forecast sales and trends in our business. Our sales personnel monitor the status of proposals, including the date when they estimate a customer will make a purchase decision and the potential size of the order. We aggregate these estimates on a quarterly basis in order to generate a sales pipeline. While the pipeline process provides us with some guidance in business planning and forecasting, it is based on estimates only and is therefore subject to risks and uncertainties. Any variation in the conversion of the pipeline into revenue or the pipeline itself could cause us to improperly plan or budget and thereby adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to license software to, or collect receivables from, our customers, our operating results may be adversely affected. While the majority of our current customers are well-established, large companies and universities, we also provide products and services to smaller companies. Our financial success depends upon the creditworthiness and ultimate collection of amounts due from our customers, including our smaller customers with fewer financial resources. While we have not experienced significant customer defaults during the 2009, 2010 and 2011 fiscal years and the nine months ended December 31, 2010, if we are not able to collect from our customers, we may be required to write-off significant accounts receivable and recognize bad debt expenses which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Our quarterly operating results, particularly our quarterly cash flows, may fluctuate. Quarterly operating results may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including lengthy sales cycles, market acceptance of new products and upgrades, timing of new product introductions, changes in pricing policies, changes in general economic and competitive conditions, and the timing and integration of acquisitions. We may also experience fluctuations in quarterly operating results due to general and industry specific economic conditions that may affect the research and development expenditures of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. In particular, historically we have received approximately two-thirds of our annual customer orders in the quarters ended December 31 and March 31. In accordance with our revenue recognition policies, the revenue associated with these orders is generally recognized over the contractual license term. Therefore, because we accrue sales commissions and royalties upon the receipt of customer orders, we have generally experienced an increase in operating costs and expenses during the quarters ended December 31 and March 31 with only a minimal 17 Table of Contents corresponding incremental increase in revenue. Additionally, our cash flows from operations have historically been positive in the fiscal quarter ended March 31 as we collect the accounts receivable generated from these customer orders, while we have historically experienced negative cash flows from operations in the other three fiscal quarters. As a result of these seasonal variations, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance and that our interim financial results are not necessarily indicative of results for a full year or for any subsequent interim period. We may be required to indemnify Pharmacopeia Drug Discovery, Inc. (“PDD”), or may not be able to collect on indemnification rights from PDD. On April 30, 2004, we spun-off our drug discovery subsidiary, PDD, into an independent, separately traded, publicly held company through the distribution to our stockholders of a dividend of one share of PDD common stock for every two shares of our common stock. As part of the spin-off, we agreed to indemnify the indebtedness, liabilities and obligations of PDD. One such obligation includes a guarantee by us to the landlord of PDD’s obligations under certain facility leases, with respect to which PDD will indemnify us should we be required to make any payment under the guarantee. These indemnification obligations could be as significant as the remaining future minimum lease payments, which totaled approximately $10.8 million as of December 31, 2011. PDD’s ability to satisfy any such indemnification obligations (including, without limitation, PDD’s commitment to indemnify us in the event of our payment under our guarantee of its leases) will depend upon PDD’s future financial strength. We cannot assure you that, if PDD becomes obligated to indemnify us for any substantial obligations, PDD will have the ability to do so. There also can be no assurance that we will be able to satisfy any indemnification obligations to PDD. Any failure by PDD to satisfy its obligations and any required payment by us could have a material adverse effect on our business. Enacted and proposed changes in securities laws and regulations have increased our costs and may continue to increase our costs in the future. In recent years, there have been several changes in laws, rules, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley”) and various other new regulations promulgated by the SEC and rules promulgated by the national securities exchanges. The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010, expands federal regulation of corporate governance matters and imposes requirements on publicly-held companies, including us, to, among other things, provide stockholders with a periodic advisory vote on executive compensation and also adds compensation committee reforms and enhanced pay-for-performance disclosures. While some provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are effective upon enactment, others will be implemented upon the SEC’s adoption of related rules and regulations. The scope and timing of the adoption of such rules and regulations is uncertain and accordingly, the cost of compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act is also uncertain. Sarbanes-Oxley Act required changes in some of our corporate governance and securities disclosure and compliance practices. Under Sarbanes-Oxley, publicly-held companies, including us, are required to, among other things, furnish independent annual audit reports regarding the existence and reliability of their internal control over financial reporting and have their chief executive officer and chief financial officer certify as to the accuracy and completeness of their financial reports. These and other new or changed laws, rules, regulations and standards are, or will be, subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity. As a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. Our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards are likely to continue to result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Further, compliance with new and existing laws, rules, regulations and standards may make it more difficult and expensive for us to maintain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to 18 Table of Contents obtain coverage. Members of our board of directors and our principal executive officer and principal financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified directors and executive officers, which could harm our business. We continually evaluate and monitor regulatory developments and cannot estimate the timing or magnitude of additional costs we may incur as a result. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Our international sales generally are denominated in local currencies. Fluctuations in the value of currencies in which we conduct business relative to the U.S. dollar result in currency transaction gains and losses, and the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations cannot be accurately predicted. Future fluctuations in currency exchange rates may have a material adverse impact on revenue from international sales, and thus on our business, financial condition and results of operations. When deemed appropriate, we may engage in currency exchange rate hedging transactions in an attempt to mitigate the impact of adverse exchange rate fluctuations. However, currency hedging policies may not be successful, and they may increase the negative impact of exchange rate fluctuations. If we consume cash more quickly than expected, we may be unable to raise additional capital and we may be forced to curtail operations. We anticipate that our existing capital resources will be adequate to fund our operations for at least the next twelve months. However, our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including potential acquisitions of other businesses or technologies. If we determine that we must raise additional capital, we may attempt to do so through public or private financings involving debt or equity. However, additional capital may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to curtail operations significantly or to obtain funds by entering into arrangements with collaborative partners or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, products or potential markets that we would not otherwise relinquish. Certain Risks Related to Owning Our Stock We expect that our stock price will fluctuate significantly, and as a result, our stockholders may not be able to resell their shares at or above their original investment price. The stock market, historically and in recent years, has experienced significant volatility particularly with technology company stocks. The volatility of technology company stock prices often does not relate to the operating performance of the companies represented by the stock. Factors that could cause volatility in the price of our common stock include without limitation: • actual and anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial and operating results; • market conditions in the technology and software sectors; • issuance of new or changed securities analysts’ reports or recommendations; • developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or other proprietary rights or other legal claims; • introduction of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors; • market acceptance of our products and services; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • the acquisition of new businesses or technologies These and other external factors may cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. 19 Table of Contents As institutions hold the majority of our common stock in large blocks, substantial sales by these stockholders could depress the market price for our shares. As of February 21, 2012, the top ten institutional holders of our common stock held approximately 57% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, if one or more of these major stockholders were to sell all or a portion of their holdings, or if the market were to perceive that such sale or sales may occur, the market price of our common stock may fall significantly. Because we do not intend to pay dividends, our stockholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if our stock price appreciates in value. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to finance the expansion of our business and do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend entirely upon any future appreciation in its value. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which it was purchased. Anti-takeover provisions under the Delaware General Corporation Law, provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and our adoption of a stockholder rights plan may make the accomplishment of mergers or the assumption of control by a principal stockholder more difficult, thereby making the removal of management more difficult. Certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may delay or deter attempts to secure control of our company without the consent of our management. Also, our governing documents provide for a staggered board of directors, which will make it more difficult for a potential acquirer to gain control of our board of directors. In 2002, we adopted a stockholder rights plan, which is triggered upon commencement or announcement of a hostile tender offer or when any one person or group acquires 15% or more of our common stock. The rights plan, once triggered, enables our stockholders (other than the stockholder responsible for triggering the rights plan) to purchase our common stock at reduced prices. These provisions of our governing documents and stockholder rights plan, and of Delaware law, could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control, including without limitation a proxy contest, making the acquisition of a substantial block of our common stock more difficult. The provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Further, the existence of these anti-takeover measures may cause potential bidders to look elsewhere, rather than initiating acquisition discussions with us. Certain Risks Related to Intellectual Property We may not be able to protect adequately the trade secrets and confidential information that we disclose to our employees. We rely upon trade secrets, technical know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. Competitors through their independent discovery (or improper means, such as unauthorized disclosure or industrial espionage) may come to know our proprietary information. We generally require employees and consultants to execute confidentiality and assignment-of-inventions agreements. These agreements typically provide that all materials and confidential information developed by or made known to the employee or consultant during his, her or its relationship with us are to be kept confidential, and that all inventions arising out of the employee’s or consultant’s relationship with us are our exclusive property. Our employees and consultants may breach these agreements, and in some instances we may not have an adequate remedy. Additionally, in some instances, we may have failed to require that employees and consultants execute confidentiality and assignment-of-inventions agreements. Foreign laws may not afford us sufficient protections for our intellectual property, and we may not seek patent protection outside the U.S. We believe that our success depends, in part, upon our ability to protect our intellectual property throughout the world. However, the laws of some foreign countries may not be as comprehensive as those of the U.S. and may not be sufficient to protect our proprietary rights abroad. In addition, we generally do not pursue patent protection outside the U.S. because of cost and confidentiality concerns. Accordingly, our international competitors could obtain foreign patent protection for, and market overseas, products and technologies for which we are seeking patent protection in the U.S. 20 Table of Contents A patent issued to us may not be sufficiently broad to protect adequately our rights in intellectual property to which the patent relates. Due to cost and other considerations, we generally do not rely on patent protection to enforce our intellectual property rights, and have filed only a limited number of patent applications. Even if patents are issued to us, these patents may not sufficiently protect our interest in our software or other technologies because the scope of protection provided by any patents issued to or licensed by us are subject to the uncertainty inherent in patent law. Third parties may be able to design around these patents or develop unique products providing effects similar to our products. In addition, others may discover uses for our software or technologies other than those uses covered in our patents, and these other uses may be separately patentable. A number of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, software organizations and research and academic institutions, have developed technologies, filed patent applications or received patents on various technologies that may be related to our business. Some of these technologies, patent applications or patents may conflict with our technologies, patent applications or patents. These conflicts could also limit the scope of patents, if any, that we may be able to obtain, or result in the denial of our patent applications. We may be subject to claims of infringement by third parties. A number of patents may have been issued or may be issued in the future that could cover certain aspects of our technology or functionality of our products and could prevent us from using technology that we use or expect to use, or making or selling certain of our products. In addition, to the extent our employees are involved in research areas similar to those areas in which they were involved at their former employers, we may inadvertently use or disclose alleged trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employer. Thus, our products may infringe patent or other intellectual property rights of third parties, and we may be subject to infringement claims by third parties. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, divert management’s attention and resources, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such licenses may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In the event of a successful claim of product infringement against us, our failure or inability to license or design around the infringed technology could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Third party software codes incorporated into our products could subject us to liability or limit our ability to sell such products. Some of our products include software codes licensed from third parties, including the open source community. Some of these licenses impose certain obligations upon us, including royalty and indemnification obligations. In the case of codes licensed from the open source community, the licenses may also limit our ability to sell products containing such code. Though we generally review the applicable licenses prior to incorporating third party code into our software products, there can be no assurance that such third party codes incorporated into our products would not subject us to liability or limit our ability to sell the products containing such code, thereby having a material adverse affect upon our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 