ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in the Partnership involves a high degree of risk. Security holders and investors should carefully review the following risk factors. Current economic conditions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In 2008, economic conditions in the United States have experienced a downturn due to the sequential effects of the subprime lending crisis, general credit market crisis, the general unavailability of financing, collateral effects on the finance and banking industries, volatile energy costs, concerns about inflation, slower economic activity, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions, increased unemployment and liquidity concerns. Uncertainty about current economic conditions poses a risk as our customers may postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material negative effect on the demand for the Partnership’s equipment and services and could lead to increased conservation and the possibility of certain of our customers seeking lower cost providers. If adverse economic conditions persist, the Partnership could experience an increase in bad debts from financially distressed customers, which would have a negative effect on our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the current economic environment has increased our rejection rate of potential accounts due to unacceptable credit scores. The Partnership relies on the continued solvency of our derivative and insurance counterparties. The Partnership regularly uses derivative instruments such as futures, options, and swap agreements, in order to mitigate our exposure to market risk associated with the purchase of home heating oil for our protected price customers, physical inventory on hand, inventory in transit and priced purchase commitments. The Partnership insures itself against catastrophic property and other losses with insurance companies. The current financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets and the possibility that financial institutions may consolidate or go out of business have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets that may also adversely affect the Partnership’s results of operations and financial conditions. There could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on the Partnership’s business, including insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of the Partnership’s products and/or increased bad debt expense due to customer insolvencies; and failure of derivative counterparties and other financial institutions negatively impacting the Partnership’s liquidity and financial condition. If counterparties to our derivative instruments were to fail, the Partnership’s liquidity, results of operations and financial condition could be materially impacted, as we would be obligated to fulfill our operational requirement of purchasing, storing and selling home heating oil, while losing the mitigating benefits of economic hedges with a failed counterparty. If one of our insurance carriers should fail, the Partnership’s liquidity results of operations and financial condition could be materially impacted, as we would have to fund any catastrophic loss. Currently, we have outstanding derivative instruments with the following counterparties: Wachovia Bank, NA, Societe Generale, Newedge USA, LLC, JPMorgan Chase Bank, NA, Cargill, Inc., Bank of America, N.A., Credit Suisse, Citibank, N.A., Key Bank National Association and RBS Sempra. Our primary insurance carrier is a subsidiary of American International Group. Wachovia Corporation and Wells Fargo & Company plan to merge by the end of 2008. Our substantial debt and other financial obligations could impair our financial condition and our ability to fulfill our debt obligations. Any refinancing of this substantial debt could be at significantly higher interest rates. As of September 30, 2008, we had total debt, exclusive of borrowings under our revolving credit facility, of approximately $172.8 million (excluding discounts and premiums). Our substantial indebtedness and other financial obligations could: • impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes; • have a material adverse effect on us if we fail to comply with financial and affirmative and restrictive covenants in our debt agreements and an event of default occurs as a result of a failure that is not cured or waived; 9 Table of Contents • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow for interest payments on our indebtedness and other financial obligations, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital and capital expenditures; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have proportionately less debt. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations and other financial obligations, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness and other financial transactions, seek additional equity capital or sell our assets. We might then be unable to obtain such financing or capital or sell our assets on satisfactory terms, if at all. Any refinancing of our indebtedness could be at significantly higher interest rates, and/or incur significant transaction fees. In light of the current financial turmoil, there can be no assurance that the lenders within our lending group will fund a borrowing request. From time to time, the Partnership borrows to meet its seasonal working capital needs. In light of the current financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets, there can be no assurances that all of the lending institutions within our lending group will have the ability to fund their pro rata portion of a borrowing request. Our lending group includes JP Morgan Chase, Bank of America, Wachovia Bank, General Electric Capital Corporation, RBS Citizens, Wells Fargo Foothill, Societe Generale, Allied Irish Banks, PNC Bank, Citibank, Israel Discount Bank, RZB Finance, and Bank Leumi. Wachovia Corporation and Wells Fargo & Company plan to merge by the end of 2008. Our credit facility expires in December 2009 and if the current adverse conditions in the credit markets continue, it may be more difficult and/or expensive to renew, extend or increase our credit facility. The Partnership’s current credit facility expires in December 2009. Based on home heating oil prices as of November 30, 2008, the Partnership believes that this facility will be sufficient to provide for its seasonal working capital needs in fiscal 2009. However, if heating oil prices escalate, the current facility may have to be increased, or the Partnership may need to seek alternative sources of financing. If the current adverse conditions in the credit markets continue, it may be more difficult for the Partnership to renew, extend or increase our credit facility and any such renewal, extension or increase in the size of the facility may be at higher spreads over LIBOR than is currently paid by the Partnership, and/or require us to incur significant transaction fees. Unitholders may have to report income for federal income tax purposes on their investment in the Partnership without receiving any cash distributions from us. Star Gas Partners is a master limited partnership. Our unitholders are required to report for federal income tax purposes their allocable share of our income, gains, losses, deductions and credits, regardless of whether we make cash distributions. We expect that an investor will be allocated taxable income (mostly dividend and interest income) regardless of whether a cash distribution has been paid. Distributions of available cash by us to unitholders will not commence before February 2009. Our corporate subsidiary Star/Petro Inc. and its subsidiaries (“Star/Petro”) are subject to federal and state income taxes. See the following risk factor regarding net operating loss availability. A change in ownership of Star Gas Partners may result in the limitation of the potential utilization of net operating loss carryforwards by our corporate subsidiary may impact our ability to pay cash distributions. If Star Gas Partners were to experience an “ownership change” under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, its corporate subsidiary, Star/Petro may be materially restricted in the potential utilization of its net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income. A restriction on Star/Petro’s ability to use its net operating loss carryforwards to reduce its federal taxable income would reduce the amount of cash Star/Petro has available to make distributions to the Partnership, which would consequently reduce the amount of cash the Partnership has available to make distributions to its unitholders. As of the calendar tax year ended December 31, 2007, Star/Petro, Inc., had a federal net operating loss carryforward (“NOL”) of approximately $112 million, of which approximately $29.3 million is limited in accordance with Federal income 10 Table of Contents tax law as a result of prior transactions. The NOLs, which will expire between 2018 and 2024, are generally available to offset any future taxable income. In general, the Partnership would be deemed to have an “ownership change” under Section 382 if, immediately after any owner shift involving a 5% unitholders or any equity structure shift, the percentage of units of the Partnership owned by one or more 5% unitholder has increased by more than 50% over the lowest percentage of units of the Partnership (or any predecessor entity) owned by such unitholder at any time during the three-year testing period. In June 2007, the Partnership amended its Amended and Restated Unite Purchase Rights Agreement dated as of July 20, 2006 in order to protect the NOLs by deterring any person or group from acquiring more than 5% (reduced from 15% prior to the amendment) of the Partnership’s issued and outstanding common units. The amendment also discourages existing 5% or greater unitholders (including the general partner) from acquiring additional common units equal to 1% or more of the outstanding common units. A person or group that acquires units in excess of these amounts would be subject to substantial dilution under the Rights Agreement. However, there can be no assurance that the Partnership will not experience an ownership change under Section 382. Since weather conditions may adversely affect the demand for home heating oil, our financial condition is vulnerable to warm winters. Weather conditions have a significant impact on the demand for home heating oil because our customers depend on this product principally for space heating purposes. As a result, weather conditions may materially adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. During the peak-heating season of October through March, sales of home heating oil historically have represented approximately 75% to 80% of our annual home heating oil volume. Actual weather conditions can vary substantially from year to year or from month to month, significantly affecting our financial performance. Furthermore, warmer than normal temperatures in one or more regions in which we operate can significantly decrease the total volume we sell and the gross profit realized and, consequently, our results of operations. For example, in fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2006, temperatures were significantly warmer than normal for the areas in which we sell home heating oil, which adversely affected the amount of net income, EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA (see Item 6. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA calculation) that we generated during these periods. In fiscal 2002, temperatures in our areas of operation were an average of 18.4% warmer than in fiscal 2001 and 18.0% warmer than normal. For fiscal 2009, we have purchased weather insurance of $12.5 million to help minimize the adverse effect of warmer weather on our cash flows. This current weather insurance contract covers the period from November 1 to February 28, taken as a whole in each of the fiscal years covered. The strike or “pay-off” price is based on the 10-year moving average of degree- days for the contract period and has been set at approximately 3% less than the 10-year moving average. For every degree-day not realized below the strike-price we will receive $35,000, up to a maximum of $12.5 million. The Partnership does not have any weather insurance past February 2009. However, there can be no assurance that this insurance will be adequate to protect us from adverse effects of weather conditions or that we may be able to obtain a similar policy in the future. Our operating results will be adversely affected if we continue to experience significant net attrition in our home heating oil customer base. Our net attrition rate of home heating oil customers for fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006 was approximately 4.4%, 5.0%, and 6.6%, respectively. This rate represents the net of our annual gross customer losses after gross customer gains. For fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006 we had gross customer losses of 19.1%, 17.6%, and 19.6%, respectively, which were partially offset by gross customer gains during these periods of 14.7%, 12.6%, and 13%, respectively. The gain of a new customer does not fully compensate for the loss of an existing customer because of the expenses incurred during the first year to acquire a new customer and the higher attrition rate associated with new customers. Customer losses are the result of various factors, including but not limited to: • price competition; • customer relocations; • credit problems; • quality of service issues; and • conversions to natural gas. 11 Table of Contents The continuing unprecedented volatility in the price of heating oil has intensified price competition and added to our difficulty in reducing net customer attrition. For additional information about customer attrition, See Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Customer Attrition.” Increases in home heating oil prices beyond current levels may have adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increases in home heating oil prices beyond current levels may have adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including the following: • higher bad debt expense as a result of higher selling prices; • higher interest expense as a result of increased working capital borrowing to finance higher receivables and/or inventory balances; and • reduced liquidity as a result of higher receivables and/or inventory balances as the Partnership must fund a portion of any increase in receivables, inventory and hedging costs from its own resources thereby tying up funds that would otherwise be available for other purposes. The volatility in wholesale energy costs may adversely affect our liquidity. Our business requires a significant investment in working capital to finance accounts receivable and inventory during the heating season. Under our revolving credit facility, which expires in December 2009, we may borrow up to $260 million, which increases to $360 million during the peak winter months from December through April of each year (subject to borrowing base limitations and a coverage ratio) for working capital purposes subject to maintaining availability (as defined in the credit agreement) of $25 million or a fixed charge coverage ratio of not less than 1.1 to 1.0. If increases in home heating oil costs cause our working capital requirements to exceed the amounts available under our revolving credit facility or should we fail to maintain the required availability, we would not have sufficient working capital to operate our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We also utilize futures contracts to manage market risk related to changes in the current and future market price of home heating oil sold to our fixed price customers. To a certain extent, availability must be set aside to respond to the volatile home heating oil markets. Futures contracts are marked to market on a daily basis and require an initial cash margin deposit and potentially require a daily adjustment to such cash deposit (maintenance margin). For example, assuming 50 million gallons are hedged with a futures contract, a $1.00 per gallon decline in the market value of these derivative instruments (as we experience from time-to-time) would create an additional cash margin requirement of approximately $50 million. In this example, availability in the short-term is reduced, as we fund the margin call. This availability reduction should be temporary, as we should be able to purchase product at a later date for $1.00 a gallon less than the anticipated strike price when the agreement with the price-protected customer was entered into. A spike in wholesale heating oil prices could also reduce availability, as we must finance a portion of our inventory and accounts receivable with internally generated cash, as the net advance for eligible accounts receivable is 85% and from 40% to 80% of eligible inventory. Generally, we are required to either prepay or issue letters of credit for inventory purchases, which impacts our liquidity. We utilize forward swaps with members of our lending group to manage market risk associated with our fixed price customers rather than purchase futures contracts. These institutions have not required an initial cash margin deposit or any mark to market maintenance margin for these swaps. Any mark to market exposure is reserved against our borrowing base and can thus reduce the amount available to us under our revolving credit facility. The mark to market reserve against our borrowing base for swap derivative instruments with our lending group was $13.2 million as of September 30, 2008 and $54.9 million as of November 30, 2008. Our revolving credit facility expires in December 2009 and we must refinance the facility before the 2009-2010 heating season. For positions that exceed the term of our credit facility, we will hedge this exposure with futures contracts which will reduce our liquidity, as the Partnership will be required to cash collateralize a portion of these contracts. For our ceiling price customers, we purchase call options, which usually requires the Partnership to pay an up front cash payment. This reduces our liquidity, as we must pay for the option before any sales are made to the customer. 12 Table of Contents For certain of our supply contracts, we are required to establish the purchase price in advance of receiving the physical product. This occurs at the end of the month and is usually no more than 20 days prior to receipt of the product. We use futures contracts or swaps to “short” the purchase commitment such that the commitment floats with the market. As a result, any upward movement in the market for home heating oil would reduce our liquidity, as we would be required to post additional cash collateral for a futures contract or our availability to borrow under our bank facility would be reduced in the case of a swap. At December 31, 2008, we expect to have approximately 35 million gallons of purchase commitments and physical inventory shorted with a futures contract or swap. Assuming a $1.00 per gallon increase in price, our near term liquidity would be reduced by $35.0 million. For the majority of our fiscal year, the amount of cash received from customers with a balanced payment plan is greater than actual billings. This amount is reflected on the balance sheet under the caption “customer credit balances.” At September 30, 2008, customer credit balances aggregated $85.4 million. Generally, customer credit balances are at their low point after the end of the heating season and at their peak prior to the beginning of the heating season. We have approximately 145,000 customers, or 36% of our residential customer base, on the balanced payment plan. If home heating oil prices increased and we failed to recalculate the balanced payments to reflect current heating oil prices, our liquidity could also be reduced. Sudden and sharp oil price increases that cannot be passed on to customers may adversely affect our operating results. The retail home heating oil industry is a “margin-based” business in which gross profit depends on the excess of retail sales prices per gallon over supply costs per gallon. Consequently, our profitability is sensitive to changes in the wholesale price of home heating oil caused by changes in supply or other market conditions. These factors are beyond our control and thus, when there are sudden and sharp increases in the wholesale cost of home heating oil, we may not be able to pass on these increases to customers through increased retail sales prices. In an effort to retain existing accounts and attract new customers we may offer discounts, which will impact the net per gallon gross margin realized. A significant portion of our home heating oil volume is sold to price-protected customers (fixed and ceiling) and our gross margins could be adversely affected if we are not able to effectively hedge against fluctuations in the volume and cost of product sold to these customers. A significant portion of our home heating oil volume is sold to individual customers under an arrangement pre-establishing the ceiling sales price or a fixed price of home heating oil over a fixed period. When the customer makes a purchase commitment for the next period we currently purchase option contracts, swaps and futures contracts for a substantial majority of the heating oil that we expect to sell to these price-protected customers. The amount of home heating oil volume that we hedge per price-protected customer is based upon the estimated fuel consumption per average customer, per month. In the event that the actual usage exceeds the amount of the hedged volume on a monthly basis, we could be required to obtain additional volume at unfavorable margins. In addition, should actual usage in any month be less than the hedged volume, (including, for example, as a result of early terminations by fixed price customers) our hedging losses could be greater. Currently, the Partnership has elected not to designate its derivative instruments as hedging instruments under SFAS 133, and the change in fair value of the derivative instruments are recognized in our statement of operations. Therefore, we could experience great volatility in earnings as these currently outstanding derivative contracts are marked to market and non-cash gains or losses are recorded in the statement of operations. Significant declines in the wholesale price of home heating oil may cause fixed price customers to renegotiate or terminate their arrangements which may adversely impact our gross profit and net income. As of September 30, 2008, approximately 17% of our residential customers had a fixed price arrangement. We hedge the cost of the anticipated sales to these customers through the use of various heating oil derivatives. In addition, the majority of these customers are subject to a termination fee should they end their arrangement prior to its expiration date. In general, approximately 41% of our fixed price arrangements (equal to approximately 7% of our home heating oil customer base) are renewed during the period from April 1 to September 30, each year. When the wholesale price of home oil declines significantly after a customer enters into a fixed price arrangement with us, some customers elect to renegotiate their arrangement in order to enter into a lower cost pricing plan with us or terminate their arrangement and switch to a competitor. Even when we are able to collect a termination fee from such customers, in most instances, the termination fee does not cover the entire exposure of a severe market decline such as experienced since March 2008. 13 Table of Contents As of December 1, 2008, approximately 20% of our fixed price customers (equal to approximately 1.4% of our home heating oil customer base) that entered into a fixed price arrangement during the period from April 1, 2008 to September 30, 2008 have either renegotiated their fixed price or switched to a competitor. Based on renegotiations and terminations through December 1, 2008, we estimate that our net income in fiscal 2009 will be adversely impacted by approximately $3.0 million by this development. If home heating oil prices continue to fall and/or more fixed price customers decide to renegotiate their fixed price arrangement or seek another supplier, we expect that our profitability would be further reduced. However, due to the numerous variables and uncertainties involved we cannot reasonably estimate at this time how much that reduction would be, although such reduction could be material. If we do not make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, our future growth will be limited. The home heating oil industry is not a growth industry because new housing generally uses natural gas when it is available, and competition has also increased from alternative energy sources. Accordingly, future growth will depend on our ability to make acquisitions at attractive prices. We cannot assure that we will be able to identify attractive acquisition candidates in the home heating oil sector in the future or that we will be able to acquire businesses on economically acceptable terms. Factors that may adversely affect home heating oil operating and financial results may limit our access to capital and adversely affect our ability to make acquisitions. Under the terms of our revolving credit facility, our most restrictive agreement, as long as we maintain certain financial ratios, we are not limited on the number of individual acquisitions or aggregate dollar amount of acquisitions we make in any fiscal year, but we are restricted from making any individual acquisition in excess of $25.0 million without the lenders’ approval. In addition, to make an acquisition, the Partnership is required to have Availability (as defined in the credit agreement) of $30.0 million, on a pro forma basis, during the last 12-month period ending on the date of such acquisition. These restrictions may limit our ability to make acquisitions. Any acquisition may involve potential risks to us and ultimately to our unitholders, including: • an increase in our indebtedness; • an increase in our working capital requirements; • our inability to integrate the operations of the acquired business; • our inability to successfully expand our operations into new territories; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • an excess of customer loss or loss of key employees from the acquired business; and • the assumption of additional liabilities including environmental liabilities. In addition, acquisitions may be dilutive to earnings and distributions to unitholders, and any additional debt incurred to finance acquisitions may among other things, affect our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Because of the highly competitive nature of the home heating oil business, we may not be able to retain existing customers or acquire new customers, which would have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. Our home heating oil business is subject to substantial competition. Most of our district locations compete with numerous distributors, primarily on the basis of reliability of service, price, and response to customer needs. Each district location operates in its own competitive environment. We compete with distributors offering a broad range of services and prices, from full-service distributor, like ourselves, to those offering delivery only. Like many companies in the home heating oil business, we provide home heating equipment repair service on a 24-hour-a-day, seven-day-a-week, 52 weeks a year basis. We believe that this tends to build customer loyalty. In some instances homeowners have formed buying cooperatives that seek to purchase fuel oil from distributors at a price lower than individual customers are otherwise able to obtain. We also compete for retail customers with suppliers of alternative energy products, principally natural gas, propane and electricity. If we are unable to compete effectively, we may lose existing customers or fail to acquire new customers, which would have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents We are subject to operating and litigation risks that could adversely affect our operating results whether or not covered by insurance. Our operations are subject to all operating hazards and risks normally incidental to handling, storing, transporting and otherwise providing customers with our products. As a result, we may be a defendant in legal proceedings and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. We maintain insurance policies with insurers in amounts and with coverage and deductibles that we believe are reasonable. However, there can be no assurance that this insurance will be adequate to protect us from all material expenses related to potential future claims for remediation costs and personal and property damage or that these levels of insurance will be available in the future at economical prices. Our operations are subject to operational hazards and our insurance reserves may not be adequate to cover actual losses. We self-insure workers’ compensation, automobile and general liability claims up to pre-established limits. In storing and delivering product to our customers, our operations are subject to operational hazards such as natural disasters, adverse weather, accidents, fires, explosions, hazardous materials releases, mechanical failures and other events beyond our control. If any of these events were to occur, we could incur substantial losses because of personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, and pollution or other environmental damage resulting in curtailment or suspension of our related operations. We establish reserves based upon expectations as to what our ultimate liability will be for claims using our historical developmental factors. We evaluate on an annual basis the potential for changes in loss estimates with the support of qualified actuaries. As of September 30, 2008, we had approximately $38.8 million of insurance reserves and had issued $45.6 million in letters of credit for past and future claims. The ultimate settlement of these claims could differ materially from the assumptions used to calculate the reserves, which could have a material effect on our results of operations. We are the subject of a consolidated class action lawsuit alleging violation of the federal securities laws, which if decided adversely, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. On or about October 21, 2004, a purported class action lawsuit on behalf of a purported class of unit-holders was filed against the Partnership and various subsidiaries and officers and directors in the United States District Court of the District of Connecticut entitled Carter v. Star Gas Partners, L.P., et. al., No. 3:04-cv-01766-IBA, et. al. Subsequently, 16 additional class action complaints, alleging the same or substantially similar claims, were filed in the same district court. The class actions were consolidated into one consolidated amended complaint. For information concerning the procedural history and current status of this lawsuit, see “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” In the event the above action is decided adversely to us, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by governmental regulation and associated environmental and regulatory costs. The home heating oil business is subject to a wide range of federal and state laws and regulations related to environmental and other matters. We have implemented environmental programs and policies designed to avoid potential liability and costs under applicable environmental laws. It is possible, however, that we will experience increased costs due to stricter pollution control requirements or liabilities resulting from noncompliance with operating or other regulatory permits. New environmental regulations might adversely impact operations, including underground storage and transportation of home heating oil. In addition, there are environmental risks inherently associated with home heating oil operations, such as the risks of accidental release or spill. It is possible that material costs and liabilities will be incurred, including those relating to claims for damages to property and persons. In addition, our results of operations and ability to issue distributions may be negatively impacted by significant changes in federal and state tax law. 15 Table of Contents Energy efficiency and new technology may reduce the demand for our products and adversely affect our operating results. Increased conservation and technological advances, including installation of improved insulation and the development of more efficient furnaces and other heating devices, have adversely affected the demand for our products by retail customers. Future conservation measures or technological advances in heating, conservation, energy generation or other devices might reduce demand and adversely affect our operating results. Conflicts of interest have arisen and could arise in the future as a result of relationships between the general partner and its affiliates on the one hand, and the Partnership and its limited partners, on the other hand. Conflicts of interest have arisen and could arise in the future as a result of relationships between the general partner and its affiliates, on the one hand, and the Partnership or any of the limited partners, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts the general partner may favor its own interests and those of its affiliates over the interests of the unitholders. The nature of these conflicts is ongoing and includes the following considerations: • The general partner’s affiliates are not prohibited from engaging in other business or activities, including direct competition with us. • The general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures, borrowings and reserves, each of which can impact the amount of cash, if any, available for distribution to unitholders, and available to pay principal and interest on debt. • The general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to the Partnership by the general partner. • The general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel or others to perform services for the Partnership. • In some instances the general partner may borrow funds in order to permit the payment of distributions to unitholders. • The general partner may limit its liability and reduce its fiduciary duties, while also restricting the remedies available to unitholders for actions that might, without limitations, constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Unitholders are deemed to have consented to some actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise be deemed a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable state law. • The general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties in addition to the Partnership in resolving conflicts of interest, thereby limiting its fiduciary duty to the unitholders. • The general partner determines whether to issue additional units or other securities of the Partnership. • The general partner determines which costs are reimbursable by us. • The general partner is not restricted from causing us to pay the general partner or its affiliates for any services rendered on terms that are fair and reasonable to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf. The risk of global terrorism and political unrest may adversely affect the economy and the price and availability of home heating oil and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Terrorist attacks and political unrest may adversely impact the price and availability of home heating oil, our results of operations, our ability to raise capital and our future growth. The impact that the foregoing may have on the heating oil industry in general, and on our business in particular, is not known at this time. An act of terror could result in disruptions of crude oil supplies and markets, the source of home heating oil, and its facilities could be direct or indirect targets. Terrorist activity may also hinder our ability to transport home heating oil if our normal means of transportation become damaged as a result of an attack. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism could also affect our ability to raise capital. Terrorist activity could likely lead to increased volatility in prices for home heating oil. Insurance carriers are routinely excluding coverage for terrorist activities from their normal policies, but are required to offer such coverage as a result of new federal legislation. We have opted to purchase this coverage with respect to our property and casualty insurance programs. This additional coverage has resulted in additional insurance premiums. 16 Table of Contents The impact of hurricanes and other natural disasters could cause disruptions in supply and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Hurricanes, particularly in the Gulf of Mexico, and other natural disasters may cause disruptions in the supply chains for home heating oil and other products that we sell. Disruptions in supply could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, causing an increase in wholesale prices and decrease in supply. Cash distributions (if any) are not guaranteed and may fluctuate with performance and reserve requirements. Distributions of available cash by us to unitholders will not commence before February 2009. Thereafter, distributions on the common units will depend on the amount of cash generated, and distributions may fluctuate based on our performance. The actual amount of cash that is available will depend upon numerous factors, including: • profitability of operations; • required principal and interest payments on debt or debt prepayments; • debt covenants; • margin account requirements; • cost of acquisitions; • issuance of debt and equity securities; • fluctuations in working capital; • capital expenditures; • adjustments in reserves; • prevailing economic conditions; • financial, business and other factors; • increased pension funding requirements; and • preserving our net operating loss carry forwards. Most of these factors are beyond the control of the general partner. The partnership agreement gives the general partner discretion in establishing reserves for the proper conduct of our business. These reserves will also affect the amount of cash available for distribution. The revolving credit facility and the indenture for the senior notes both impose certain restrictions on our ability to pay distributions to unitholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 