Item 1A. Risk Factors Investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of, but are not limited to, these risks. In assessing these risks, investors should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto. Uncertain economic and financial market conditions adversely affect our business. The market for investment management software systems has been and currently is negatively affected by a number of factors, including reductions in capital expenditures by customers and poor performance of major financial markets. The current market downturn, dissolution and acquisitions of 16 Table of Contents our clients and prospects, the decline in Assets Under Administration (AUA) or Assets Under Management (AUM) as a result of significant declines in asset values of our clients and the accompanying market uncertainty affects and will continue to affect both our ability to sell our solutions and the amount of revenue we receive from such sales. The target clients for our products include a range of financial services organizations that manage investment portfolios. In addition, in our MicroEdge business segment, we target corporations, public funds, universities and non-profit organizations, which also manage investment portfolios and have many of the same needs. The success of many of our clients is intrinsically linked to the health of the financial markets. The demand for our solutions has been and currently is disproportionately affected by fluctuations, disruptions, instability and downturns in the economy and financial services industry, which may cause clients and potential clients to exit the industry or delay, cancel or reduce any planned expenditures for investment management systems and software products. We have recently experienced some clients and prospects delaying or cancelling additional license purchases. In addition, some prospects and clients have gone out of business, undergone personnel reductions or turnover, or have been acquired, which we expect to continue as the financial markets face continued hardship. Beginning in the second half of 2007, difficulties in the mortgage and broader credit markets in the United States and elsewhere resulted in a relatively sudden and substantial decrease in the availability of credit and a corresponding increase in funding costs. More recently, the current volatility and uncertainty in the financial markets generally has also caused large losses, layoffs, dissolutions and acquisitions by financial institutions and other clients, which will likely result in reduced expenditures for software and related services. Additionally, the economic downturn has also decreased our clients' AUA or AUM, which in turn causes our revenues to decrease since some pricing is based on assets under administration or management. In addition, the failure of existing investment firms or the slowdown in the formation of new investment firms could cause a decline in demand for our solutions. Consolidation of financial services firms and other clients will result in reduced technology expenditures or acquired customers using the acquirer's own proprietary software and services solutions or the solutions of another vendor. In some circumstances where both acquisition parties are customers of Advent, the combined entity may require fewer Advent products and services than each individually licensed, thus reducing our revenue. Challenging economic conditions may also cause our customers to experience difficulty with gaining timely access to sufficient credit or our customers may become unable to pay for the products or services they have purchased, which could result in their inability to fulfill or make timely payments to us. If that were to occur, our ability to collect receivables would be negatively affected, and our reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. The technology spending patterns of organizations in MicroEdge's primary markets (independent foundations, community foundations and corporations) are directly affected by economic fluctuations as foundation budgets are largely driven by endowment income. Given that endowments often contain market-exposed components, they are significantly affected by the economy and foundation spending typically decreases in an economic downturn. Community foundations are subject to similar influences, compounded by the fact that in many cases much of their ongoing funding and endowment comes from active donors who may increase or reduce their giving depending on the economic climate and the related effect on their income and wealth. Corporations typically fund charitable activities from operating budgets, and the allocation to charitable donations and supporting company charitable operations is often closely tied to a company's performance. Thus, corporate philanthropy and spending on related technology are correlated with company and overall economic performance. We have, in the past, experienced a number of market downturns in the financial services industry and resulting declines in information technology spending, which has caused longer sales and contracting cycles, deferral or delay of information technology projects and generally reduced expenditures for software and related services. The severity of the market downturn and worsening volatility and uncertainty in the financial markets and the financial services sector in recent months 17 Table of Contents makes it difficult for us to forecast operating results and may result in a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations in the longer term. Our sales cycle is long and we have limited ability to forecast the timing and amount of specific sales and the timing of specific implementations. The purchase of our software products often requires prospective customers to provide significant executive-level sponsorship and to make major systems architecture decisions. As a result, we must generally engage in relatively lengthy sales and contracting efforts. Sales transactions may therefore be delayed during the customer decision process because we must provide a significant level of education to prospective customers regarding the use and benefit of our products. Our business and prospects are subject to uncertainties in the financial markets that can cause customers to remain cautious about capital and information technology expenditures particularly in the current economic environment. The sales cycle associated with the purchase of our solutions is typically between two and twelve months depending upon the size of the client, and is subject to a number of significant risks over which we have little or no control, including broader financial market volatility, adverse economic conditions, customers' budgeting constraints, internal selection procedures, and changes in customer personnel, among others. Recent volatility in the US and global financial markets has further exacerbated this risk. As a result of a lengthy and unpredictable sales cycle, we have limited ability to forecast the timing and amount of specific perpetual license sales, or term license sales which we report quarterly as term license contract value (TCV) or annual term license contract value (ACV). The timing of large individual license sales is especially difficult to forecast, and we may not be successful in closing large license transactions on a timely basis or at all. Customers may postpone their purchases of our existing products or product enhancements in advance of the anticipated introduction of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors. Accordingly, our perpetual license revenue or our level of TCV or ACV in any particular period is subject to significant fluctuation. For example, during the third quarter of 2008, our perpetual license revenue was lower than expected as we licensed fewer perpetual seats and modules to our existing perpetual client base, and during the fourth quarter of 2008, our ACV was lower compared to the fourth quarter of the previous year. When a customer purchases a term license together with implementation services we do not recognize any revenue under the contract until the implementation services are substantially complete. The timing of large implementations is difficult to forecast. Customers may delay or postpone the timing of their particular projects due to the availability of resources or other customer specific priorities. If we are not able to complete an implementation project for a term license in a quarter, it will cause us to defer all of the proportionate contract revenues to a subsequent quarter. Because our expenses are relatively fixed in the near term, any shortfall from anticipated revenues could result in a significant variation in our operating results from quarter to quarter. If our existing customers do not renew their term license, perpetual maintenance or other recurring contracts, our business will suffer. Revenues recognized from recurring contracts represented 79% and 77% of total net revenues in fiscal 2008 and 2007, respectively. We expect to continue to derive a significant portion of our revenue from our clients' renewal of term license, perpetual maintenance and other recurring contracts and such renewals are critical to our future success. Some factors that may affect the renewal rate of our contracts include: •The impact of the current extreme market volatility on our clients and prospects; •The price, performance and functionality of our solutions; •The availability, price, performance and functionality of competing products and services; 18 Table of Contents •The effectiveness of our maintenance and support services; and •Our ability to develop complementary products and services. Most of our perpetual license customers have historically renewed their annual maintenance although our customers have no obligation to renew such maintenance after the first year of their license agreements. In addition, our customers may select maintenance levels less advantageous to us upon renewal, which may reduce recurring revenue from these customers. The current market downturn has caused, and may in the future cause, some clients not to renew their maintenance or reduce their level of maintenance, which would affect our renewal rates and revenue. As a result of our relatively recent transition to term licensing, we only have limited experience with renewals of our term license contracts. During the third quarter of 2007, we commenced renewing term license contracts signed in the third quarter of 2004. These were the first three-year term license contracts to be renewed by Advent since our transition to a term pricing model began. Our customers have no obligation to renew their term license contracts and given the small number of contracts subject to renewal that were renewed in the second half of 2007 and during 2008, we cannot yet conclude whether customers will renew in a manner consistent with our perpetual maintenance customers. Additionally, we cannot predict whether the renewals will be less advantageous to us than the original term contract. For example, the renewal periods for our term license contracts are typically shorter than our original term license contract and customers may request a reduction in the number of users or products licensed, resulting in a lower annual term license fee. Further, customers may elect to not renew their term license contracts at all. We may incur significantly more costs in securing our term license contract renewals than we incur for our perpetual maintenance renewals. If our term license contract customers renew under terms less favorable to us or choose not to renew their contracts, or if it costs significantly more to secure a renewal for us, our operating results may be harmed. Our current operating results may not be reflective of our future financial performance. During fiscal 2008 and 2007, we recognized 79% and 77%, respectively, of total net revenues from recurring sources, which we define as revenues from term license, maintenance on perpetual licenses, and other recurring revenue. We generally recognize revenue from these sources ratably over the terms of these agreements, which typically range from one to three years. As a result, almost all of our revenues in any quarter are generated from contracts entered into during previous periods. Consequently, a significant decline in new business generated in any quarter may not materially affect our results of operations in that quarter but will have an impact on our revenue growth rate in future quarters. Additionally, a decline in renewals of term agreements, maintenance or data contracts during a quarter will not be fully reflected in our financial performance in that quarter. For example, because we recognize revenue ratably, the non-renewal of term agreements or maintenance contracts late in a quarter may have very little impact on revenue for that quarter, but will reduce revenue in future quarters. In addition, we may be unable to adjust our costs in response to reduced revenue. Further, because of the large percentage of revenue from recurring sources, our historical operating results on a generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) basis will not necessarily be the sole or most relevant factor in predicting our future operating results. Accordingly, we report non-GAAP information, such as our quarterly term license bookings metrics (expressed as term license contract value, "TCV", or annual term license contract value, "ACV") and maintenance renewal rates, that is intended to provide investors with certain of the information that management uses as a basis for planning and forecasting of future periods. However, placing undue reliance upon non-GAAP or operating information is not appropriate because this information is neither standardized across companies nor subjected to the same control activities and audit procedures that produce our GAAP financial results. 19 Table of Contents The current market downturn has started to cause, and may in the future cause more, clients not to renew their licenses or maintenance, which would affect our renewal rates. Also, the significant declines in market value of our clients affect their AUA or AUM. Consequently, we may also experience a decline in the TCV and ACV of bookings since the pricing of some of our products is based upon our client's AUA or AUM. Furthermore, we have some contracts for which clients pay us fees based on the greater of a negotiated annual minimum fee or a calculated fee that is determined by the client's AUA or AUM. If a client previously had paid us based on the calculated fee, rather than the annual minimum fee, we would experience a decline in revenue as a result of any decline in those clients' AUA or AUM. Our stock price may fluctuate significantly. Like many other companies, our stock price has been subject to wide fluctuations in recent months as part of the high market volatility. If net revenues or earnings in any quarter or our financial guidance for future periods fail to meet the investment community's expectations, our stock price is likely to decline. Even if our revenues or earnings meet or exceed expectations, our stock price is subject to decline in this period of high market volatility because our stock price is affected by trends in the financial services sector and by broader market trends unrelated to our performance. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions, which can be caused by many factors, including declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence; limitation on the availability or increases in the cost of credit or capital; increases in inflation, interest rates, exchange rate volatility, default rates or the price of basic commodities; corporate, political or other scandals that reduce investor confidence in capital markets; outbreaks of hostilities or other geopolitical instability; natural disasters or pandemics; or a combination of these or other factors, have adversely affected, and may in the future adversely affect, our business, profitability and stock price. We operate in a highly competitive industry. The market for investment management software is competitive and highly fragmented, is subject to rapid change and is sensitive to new product introductions and marketing efforts by industry participants. Our largest single source of competition is from proprietary systems used by existing and potential clients, many of whom develop their own software for their particular needs and therefore may be reluctant to license software products offered by third party vendors such as Advent. We also face significant competition from other providers of software and related services as well as providers of outsourced services. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories and greater financial, technical, sales and marketing resources than we do. In addition, consolidation has occurred among some of the competitors in our markets. Competitors vary in size, scope of services offered and platforms supported. In recent years, many of our competitors have merged with each other or with other larger third parties, and it is possible that even larger companies will emerge through additional acquisitions of companies and technologies. Any further consolidation among our competitors may result in stronger competitors in our markets and may therefore either result in a loss of market share or harm our results of operations. In addition, we also face competition from potential new entrants into our market that may develop innovative technologies or business models. Furthermore, competitors may respond to worsening market conditions by lowering prices, offering better contractual terms and attempting to lure away our customers and prospects to lower cost solutions. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that competitive pressure will not result in price reductions, reduced operating margins or loss of market share, any one of which could seriously harm our business. 20 Table of Contents We depend heavily on our Axys®, Geneva, APX and Moxy products. We derive a majority of our net revenues from the license and maintenance revenues from our Axys, Geneva, APX and Moxy products. In addition, Moxy and many of our applications, such as Partner and various data services have been designed to provide an integrated solution with Axys, Geneva and APX. As a result, we believe that for the next several years a majority of our net revenues will depend upon continued market acceptance of Axys, Geneva, APX, and Moxy, and upgrades to those products. We must continue to introduce new products and product enhancements. The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological change, changes in customer demands, evolving industry standards and new regulatory requirements. New products based on new technologies or new industry standards can render existing products obsolete and unmarketable. As a result, our future success will continue to depend upon our ability to develop new products or product enhancements that address the future needs of our target markets and respond to their changing standards and practices. We continue to release numerous new products and product upgrades and we believe our future success depends on continuing such releases. Additionally, in October 2008, we acquired Tamale Software which enables us to offer a new product in the nascent research management field. However, it is too early to know whether these products will meet anticipated sales or will be broadly accepted in the market or that we will continue to introduce more products. We may not be successful in developing, introducing, marketing and licensing our new products or product enhancements on a timely and cost effective basis, or at all, and our new products and product enhancements may not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace or achieve market acceptance. Delays in the commencement of commercial shipments of new products or enhancements or delays in client implementations or migrations may result in client dissatisfaction and delay or loss of product revenues. Additionally, existing clients may be reluctant to go through the sometimes complex and time consuming process of migrating from our Axys to APX product, which may slow the migration of our customer base to APX. In addition, clients may delay purchases in anticipation of new products or product enhancements. Our ability to develop new products and product enhancements is also dependent upon the products of other software vendors, including certain system software vendors, such as Microsoft Corporation, Sun Microsystems, database vendors and development tool vendors. If the products of such vendors have design defects or flaws, are unexpectedly delayed in their introduction, are unavailable on acceptable terms, or the vendors exit the business, our business could be seriously harmed. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly. As we continue our transition to a predominantly term license model, our net revenues have been and continue to be affected by the relatively slower revenue recognition associated with the term license model, which is typically over a three-year period, and by the reduction in perpetual license revenue. While we have largely transitioned to a predominantly term license model, we continue to see the effects of this transition. For example, under a perpetual model, customers purchase licenses to use our software indefinitely and generally we recognize all license revenue at the time of sale; maintenance is purchased under an annual renewable contract, and recognized ratably over the contract period. Under a term model, customers purchase a license to use our software and receive maintenance for a limited period of time and we recognize the revenue ratably over the length of the contract. During fiscal 2008, term license revenues comprised approximately 32% of term license, maintenance and other recurring revenues as compared to approximately 22% and 14% in fiscal 2007 and 2006, respectively. Term license contracts are comprised of both software licenses and maintenance 21 Table of Contents services. Individual perpetual software licenses vary significantly in value, and the value and timing of these transactions can therefore cause our quarterly perpetual license revenues to fluctuate. When a customer purchases a term license together with implementation services, we do not recognize any revenue under the contract until the implementation services are substantially completed and then we recognize revenue ratably over the remaining length of the contract. If the implementation services are still in progress as of quarter-end, we will defer all of the contract revenues to a subsequent quarter. As a result of these and other factors, our quarterly net revenues may fluctuate significantly. Our expense levels are relatively fixed in the short-term. Due to the fixed nature of these expenses, combined with the relatively high gross margin historically achieved on our products, an unanticipated decline in net revenues in any particular quarter may adversely affect our operating results. For example, during 2008, we deferred net revenues of $9.6 million and deferred directly related expenses of $3.1 million. The impact of these deferrals on our operating income for 2008 was approximately $6.5 million. In addition, we experience seasonality in our licensing. We believe that this seasonality results primarily from customer budgeting cycles and the annual nature of some AUA or AUM contracts, and expect this seasonality to continue in the future. The fourth quarter of the year typically has more licensing activity. That can result in term license bookings and perpetual license fee revenue being the highest in the fourth quarter, followed by lower term license bookings and perpetual license revenue in the first quarter of the following year. This seasonality may be adversely affected by the current market downturn and worsening economic conditions, and there is no guarantee that our fourth quarter term license bookings will be higher than previous quarters. Also, term licenses entered into during a quarter may not result in recognition of associated revenue until later quarters, as we begin recognizing revenue for such licenses when the related implementation services are substantially complete. In addition, we may incur commission and bonus expenses in the period in which we enter into a license, but not recognize the associated revenue until later periods. Because of the above factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily reliable indicators of future performance. If our relationship with Financial Times/Interactive Data is terminated or other large subscription-based relationships are terminated, our business may be harmed. Many of our clients use our proprietary interface to electronically retrieve pricing and other data from Financial Times/Interactive Data ("FTID"). FTID pays us a commission based on their revenues from providing this data to our clients. Our software products have been customized to be compatible with their system and this software would need to be redesigned if their services were unavailable for any reason. Termination of our current agreement with FTID would require at least two years' notice by either us or them, or 90 days in the case of material breach. Our operating results would be adversely impacted if our relationship with FTID was terminated or their services were unavailable to our clients for any reason. In recent years, Advent has entered into contracts relating to our subscription, data management revenue streams and outsourced services with contract values that are substantially larger than we have customarily entered into in the past, including most recently our agreement with TIAA-CREF. It is too early to know whether we will be able to continue to sign large recurring revenue contracts of this nature, and our operating results could be adversely impacted if those agreements are not fully implemented, terminated or not renewed or if we are unable to continue to generate similar opportunities. Some of these agreements are subject to milestones, acceptance and penalties and there is no assurance that these agreements will be fully implemented, renewed, or that Advent will be able to enter similar or larger sized contracts in the future. 22 Table of Contents We must retain and recruit key employees. We believe that our future success is dependent on the continued employment of our senior management and our ability to identify, attract, motivate and retain qualified technical, sales and other personnel. Members of our executive management team have acquired specialized knowledge and skills with respect to Advent. We need technical resources such as our product development engineers to develop new products and enhance existing products; we rely upon sales personnel to sell our products and services and maintain healthy business relationships; we must recruit professional service consultants to support the anticipated increase in product implementations; we must hire client services personnel to provide technical support to our growing installed base of customers; and we must attract and retain financial and accounting personnel to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We need to identify, attract, motivate and retain such employees with the requisite education, backgrounds and industry experience. However, experienced high quality personnel in the information technology industry continue to be in high demand and competition for their talents remains intense, especially in the San Francisco Bay Area where the majority of our employees are located. We have relied on our ability to grant equity compensation as one mechanism for recruiting and retaining such highly skilled personnel. In making employment decisions, particularly in the high-technology industries and San Francisco Bay Area, job candidates often consider the value of the equity awards they are to receive in connection with their employment. Fluctuations in our stock price may make it more difficult to retain and motivate employees. The recent significant adverse volatility in our stock price has resulted in many employees' stock option and/or stock appreciation right exercises exceeding the underlying stock's market value as well as the deterioration in the value of employees restricted stock units granted, thus lessening the effectiveness of retaining employees through stock-based awards. Additionally, accounting regulations requiring the expensing of equity compensation impair our ability to provide these incentives without reporting significant compensation costs. We may also choose to create additional performance and retention incentives in order to retain our employees, including the granting of additional stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights, performance shares or performance units to employees or issuing incentive cash bonuses. Such incentives may either dilute our existing stockholder base or result in unforeseen operating expenses which may have a material adverse effect on our operating results, or could result in our stock price falling; or may not be valued as highly by our employees which may create retention issues. We face challenges in expanding our international operations in which we may have limited experience or business partners. We market and sell our products in the United States and, to a growing extent, internationally. From 2001 through 2005, we acquired the subsidiaries of our independent distributor. In addition, we have begun to expand our sales in relatively new jurisdictions for Advent, such as the Middle East, Eastern Europe, and Asia. In 2006 we opened a branch office of Advent Europe Ltd. in the United Arab Emirates, as well as a subsidiary of Advent Software, Inc. in Hong Kong in 2008. We cannot be certain that establishing businesses in other countries will produce the desired levels of revenues, such as in the case of our Greek subsidiary, Advent Hellas, which produced less than satisfactory revenues and profitability before its sale by Advent in 2005. Also, the recent worldwide decline in financial markets may disrupt our sales efforts in overseas markets. We currently have limited experience in developing localized versions of our products and marketing and distributing our products internationally. In other instances, we may rely on the efforts and abilities of foreign business partners in such markets. For example, we have begun to outsource certain engineering activities with a business 23 Table of Contents partner located in China. In addition, international operations are subject to other inherent risks, including: •The impact of recessions and market fluctuations in economies outside the United States; •Adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates; •Greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; •Difficulty of enforcement of contractual provisions in local jurisdictions; •Unexpected changes in foreign laws and regulatory requirements; •US and foreign trade-protection measures and export and import requirements; •Difficulties in successfully adapting our products to the language, regulatory and technology standards of other countries; •Resistance of local cultures to foreign-based companies and difficulties establishing local partnerships or engaging local resources; •Difficulties in and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; •Reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; •Foreign tax structures and potentially adverse tax consequences; and •Political and economic instability. The revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities of our international subsidiaries are primarily denominated in local foreign currencies. We have not historically undertaken foreign exchange hedging transactions to cover potential foreign currency exposure. Future fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect revenues and accounts receivable from international sales and the US dollar value of our foreign subsidiaries' revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. Our international service revenues and certain license revenues from our European subsidiaries are generally denominated in local foreign currencies. Difficulties in integrating our acquisitions and expanding into new business areas have impacted and could continue to adversely impact our business and we face risks associated with potential acquisitions, investments, divestitures and expansion. Periodically we seek to grow through the acquisition of additional complementary businesses. In October 2008, we completed the acquisition of Tamale Software, Inc., which provides research management software. In November 2007, our MicroEdge subsidiary acquired Vivid Orange Limited, a United Kingdom company providing corporate community involvement and employee charitable giving technology. In December 2006, we acquired East Circle Solutions, Inc., a developer of investment management billing solutions to integrate their product into our software offerings. From 2001 through the middle of 2003, we made five major acquisitions, including Kinexus Corporation, Techfi Corporation and Advent Outsource Data Management LLC, and also acquired all of the common stock of five of our European distributor's subsidiaries. In addition, we purchased our European distributor's remaining two subsidiaries in the United Kingdom and Switzerland in May 2004. The process of integrating our acquisitions has required and will continue to require significant resources, particularly in light of our relative inexperience in integrating acquisitions, potential regulatory requirements and operational demands. In particular, our Tamale acquisition reflects our entry into the research management software market, where we have no prior experience. Integrating these acquisitions in the past has been time-consuming, expensive and disruptive to our business. This integration process has strained our managerial resources, resulting in the diversion of these resources 24 Table of Contents from our core business objectives and may do so in the future. Failure to achieve the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions or to successfully integrate the operations of these entities has harmed and could potentially harm our business, results of operations and cash flows in future periods. The assumptions we made in determining the value of, and relative risks, of these acquisitions could be erroneous. For example, in the first quarter of 2003, we closed our Australian subsidiary because it failed to perform at a satisfactory profit level and similarly in the fourth quarter of 2005, we disposed of our Advent Hellas subsidiary because of less than satisfactory profitability. In addition, as we have expanded into new business areas and built new offerings through strategic alliances and internal development, as well as acquisitions, some of this expansion has required significant management time and resources without generating required revenues. We have had difficulty and may continue to have difficulty creating demand for such offerings. Furthermore, we may face other unanticipated costs from our acquisitions, such as disputes involving earn-out and incentive compensation amounts, similar to those we have experienced with our Kinexus and Advent Outsource acquisitions. We may make additional acquisitions of complementary companies, products or technologies in the future. In addition, we periodically evaluate the performance of all our products and services and may sell or discontinue current products, product lines or services, particularly as we focus on ways to streamline our operations. Failure to achieve the anticipated benefits of any acquisition or divestiture could harm our business, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, we may have to incur debt, write-off investments, infrastructure costs or other assets, incur severance liabilities, write-off impaired goodwill or other intangible assets or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisitions. The issuance of equity securities could dilute our existing stockholders' ownership. Finally, we may not identify suitable businesses to acquire or negotiate acceptable terms for future acquisitions. Impairment of investments could harm our results of operations. We have made and may make future investments in privately held companies, many of which are considered in the start-up or development stages. These investments, which we classify as other assets on our consolidated balance sheets, are inherently risky, as the market for the technologies or products these companies have under development is typically in the early stages and may never materialize. The value of the investment in these companies is influenced by many factors, including the operating effectiveness of these companies, the overall health of these companies' industries, the strength of the private equity markets and general market conditions. Due to these and other factors, we have previously determined, and may in the future determine, that the value of these investments is impaired, which has caused and would cause us to write down the carrying value of these investments, such as the $0.6 million write-down of one of our investments during the second quarter of 2007. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that future investment, license, fixed asset or other asset write-downs will not occur. If future write-downs do occur, they could harm our business and results of operations. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may be subject to increased competition that could seriously harm our business. Our success depends significantly upon our proprietary technology. We currently rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret law, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. We have registered trademarks and copyrights for many of our products and services and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional trademarks and copyrights as appropriate. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, customers, resellers, vendors and others. We seek to protect our software, documentation and other written materials under trade secret and copyright laws. We also have one registered patent. Despite our efforts, existing intellectual property laws may afford only limited protection. It may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy certain portions of our products or to reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information. In addition, we cannot be 25 Table of Contents certain that others will not develop or acquire substantially equivalent or superseding proprietary technology, equivalent or better products will not be marketed in competition with our products, or others may not design around any patent that may be issued to us or other intellectual property rights of ours, thereby substantially reducing the value of our proprietary rights. We cannot be sure that we will develop proprietary products or technologies that are patentable, that any patent, if issued, would provide us with any competitive advantages or would not be challenged by third parties, or that the patents of others will not adversely affect our ability to do business. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. Litigation may be necessary to protect our proprietary technology which may be time-consuming and expensive, with no assurance of success. As a result, we cannot be sure that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate. If we infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we may incur additional costs or be prevented from selling our products and services. We cannot be certain that our products or services do not infringe the intellectual property rights of others. As a result, we may be subject to litigation and claims, including claims of misappropriation of trade secrets or infringement of patents, copyrights and other intellectual property rights of third parties that would be time-consuming and costly to resolve and may lead to unfavorable judgments or settlements. If we discovered that our products or services violated the intellectual property rights of third parties, we may have to make substantial changes to our products or services or obtain licenses from such third parties. We might not be able to obtain such licenses on favorable terms or at all, and we may be unable to change our products successfully or in a timely or cost-effective manner. Failure to resolve an infringement matter successfully or in a timely manner would damage our reputation and force us to incur significant costs, including payment of damages, redevelopment costs, diversion of management's attention and satisfaction of indemnification obligations that we have with our clients, as well as prevent us from selling certain products or services. Information we provide to investors is accurate only as of the date we disseminate it. From time to time, we may publicly disseminate forward-looking information or guidance in compliance with Regulation FD. This information or guidance represents our outlook only as of the date we disseminate it, and we do not undertake to update such information or guidance. Catastrophic events could adversely affect our business. We are a highly automated business and rely on our network infrastructure and enterprise applications, internal technology systems and our Web site for our development, marketing, operational, support, and sales activities. A disruption or failure of these systems in the event of major earthquake, fire, telecommunications failure, cyber-attack, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event could cause system interruptions, reputational harm, delays in our product development and loss of critical data and could affect our ability to sell and deliver products and services and other critical functions of our business. Our corporate headquarters, a significant portion of our research and development activities, our data centers, and certain other critical business operations are located in the San Francisco Bay Area, which is a region of seismic activity. We have developed certain disaster recovery plans and certain backup systems to reduce the potentially adverse effect of such events, but a catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our data centers or our critical business or information technology systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our future operating results could be adversely affected. Further, such disruptions could cause further instability in the financial markets or the spending of our clients and prospects upon which we depend. 26 Table of Contents In addition to the severe market conditions of recent months, other catastrophic events such as abrupt political change, terrorist acts, conflicts or wars may cause damage or disruption to the economy, financial markets and our customers. The potential for future attacks, the national and international responses to attacks or perceived threats to national security and other actual or potential conflicts or wars, including the ongoing crisis in the Middle East, have created many economic and political uncertainties. Although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, they could unsettle the financial markets or result in a decline in information technology spending, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues. Undetected software errors or failures found in new products may result in loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products that could seriously harm our business. Our products may contain undetected software errors or scalability limitations at any point in their lives, but particularly when first introduced or as new versions are released. Despite testing by us and by current and potential customers, errors may not be found in new products until after commencement of commercial shipments, resulting in a loss of or a delay in market acceptance, damage to our reputation, customer dissatisfaction and reductions in revenues and margins, any of which could seriously harm our business. Additionally, our agreements with customers that attempt to limit our exposure to liability claims may not be enforceable in jurisdictions where we operate, particularly as we expand into new international markets. Two of our principal stockholders have an influence over our business affairs and may make business decisions with which you disagree and which may adversely affect the value of your investment. Our Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman of our board of directors own or control, indirectly or directly, a substantial number of shares of our common stock (approximately 37% as of December 31, 2008). As a result, if these people act together, they will have the ability to exert significant influence on matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, such as the election or removal of directors, amendments to our certificate of incorporation or the approval of a business combination. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by other stockholders or it may be difficult to approve these actions without their consent. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company or discouraging others from making tender offers for our shares, which could prevent our stockholders from receiving a premium for their shares. Changes in securities laws and regulations may increase our costs or may harm demand. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act ("the Act") of 2002 required changes in some of our corporate governance and securities disclosure and/or compliance practices. As part of the Act's requirements, the SEC has enacted new rules on a variety of subjects, and the Nasdaq Stock Market has enacted new corporate governance listing requirements. These developments have increased and may in the future increase our accounting and legal compliance costs and could also expose us to additional liability if we fail to comply with these new rules and reporting requirements. In fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, we incurred approximately $0.8 million, $0.9 million and $1.3 million, respectively, in Sarbanes-Oxley related expenses consisting of external consulting costs and auditor fees, and the Company anticipates similarly spending a significant amount for its 2009 compliance activities. In addition, such developments may make retention and recruitment of qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, or as executive officers, more difficult. We continue to evaluate and monitor regulatory and legislative developments and cannot reliably estimate the timing or magnitude of all costs we may incur as a result of the Act or other related legislation or regulation. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act ("the Act") of 2002 required changes in some of our corporate governance and securities disclosure and/or compliance practices. As part of the Act's requirements, the 27 Table of Contents SEC has enacted new rules on a variety of subjects, and the Nasdaq Stock Market has enacted new corporate governance listing requirements. These developments have increased and may in the future increase our accounting and legal compliance costs and could also expose us to additional liability if we fail to comply with these new rules and reporting requirements. In fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, we incurred approximately $0.8 million, $0.9 million and $1.3 million, respectively, in Sarbanes-Oxley related expenses consisting of external consulting costs and auditor fees, and the Company anticipates similarly spending a significant amount for its 2009 compliance activities. In addition, such developments may make retention and recruitment of qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, or as executive officers, more difficult. We continue to evaluate and monitor regulatory and legislative developments and cannot reliably estimate the timing or magnitude of all costs we may incur as a result of the Act or other related legislation or regulation. In addition, our customers operate within a highly regulated environment. In light of the current conditions in the US financial markets and economy, Congress and regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. The information provided by, or resident in, the software or services we provide to our customers could be deemed relevant to a regulatory investigation or other governmental or private legal proceeding involving our customers, which could result in requests for information from us that could be expensive and time consuming for us. In addition, clients subject to investigations or legal proceedings may be adversely impacted possibly leading to their liquidation, bankruptcy, receivership, reductions in AUM or AUA, or diminished operations that would adversely affect our revenues and collection of receivables. Our customers must comply with governmental and quasi-governmental rules, regulations, directives and standards. New legislation or changes in government or quasi-governmental rules, regulations, directives or standards may reduce demand for our services or increase our expenses. We develop, configure and market products and services to assist customers in meeting these requirements. New legislation, or a significant change in rules, regulations, directives or standards, could cause our services to become obsolete, reduce demand for our services or increase our expenses in order to continue providing services to clients. Changes in, or interpretations of, accounting principles could result in unfavorable accounting charges. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These principles are subject to interpretation by us, the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create accounting principles. A change in these principles or a change in the interpretations of these principles can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even retroactively affect previously reported transactions. Some of our accounting principles that recently have been or may be affected include: •Software revenue recognition; •Accounting for stock-based compensation; •Accounting for income taxes; and •Accounting for business combinations and related goodwill. In particular, in the first quarter of 2006, we adopted SFAS 123R which requires the measurement of all stock-based compensation to employees, including grants of employee stock options, restricted stock units and stock appreciation rights, using a fair-value-based method and the recording of such expense in our consolidated statements of operations. The adoption of SFAS 123R had a significant adverse effect on our results of operations. It will continue to significantly adversely affect our results of operations and has resulted in changes to our compensation practices, such as an increased reliance 28 Table of Contents on using equity vehicles such as stock-settled stock appreciation rights ("SAR") and restricted stock units ("RSU"). We also adopted FIN 48 in the first quarter of 2007. The adoption of FIN 48 resulted in an increase in both assets and liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet as of the beginning of fiscal 2007 and may create increased volatility in our future operating results. Additionally, in December 2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), ("SFAS 141R"), "Business Combinations," which changes the accounting for business combinations including the measurement of acquirer shares issued in consideration for a business combination, the recognition of contingent consideration, the accounting for pre-acquisition gain and loss contingencies, the recognition of capitalized in-process research and development, the accounting for acquisition related restructuring liabilities, the treatment of acquisition related transaction costs and the recognition of changes in the acquirer's income tax valuation allowance. FAS 141R is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. We currently believe that the adoption of SFAS 141R will result in the recognition of certain types of expenses in our results of operations that we currently capitalize pursuant to existing accounting standards and may also impact our financial statement in other ways. Additionally, the nature and magnitude of the specific effects will depend upon the nature, terms and size of the acquisitions the Company consummates after the effective date. Borrowings under our credit facility must be repaid if we fail to comply with certain covenants. In February 2007, we entered into a senior secured facility agreement which provides us with a revolving line of credit up to an aggregate amount of $75.0 million. We have in the past, and may in the future, borrow under the credit facility in order to fund working capital requirements, make share repurchases of our common stock or fund acquisitions. In addition, if our anticipated cash flow from our recurring sources of revenue is materially impaired due to customer defaults or failure to renew term licenses or maintenance contracts, our ability to borrow under the credit facility, or continue to meet the contractual covenants, may be compromised. Our continued ability to borrow under our credit facility is subject to compliance with certain financial and non-financial covenants. The financial covenant is limited to a maximum ratio of senior debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA), adjusted for cost capitalizations, extraordinary gains (losses) and non-cash stock compensation. Our failure to comply with such covenants could cause default under the agreement, and we may then be required to repay such debt with capital from other sources. Under those circumstances, other sources of capital may not be available to us, or be available only on unfavorable terms, particularly in the current economic environment. In the event of a default which is not remedied within the prescribed timeframe, the assets of the Company (subject to the amount borrowed) may be attached or seized by the lender. On October 30, 2008, the Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program of up to 3.0 million shares, and in November 2008, we borrowed $25.0 million under the credit facility to fund a portion of these repurchases, of which $15.0 million was outstanding as of February 28, 2009. Security risks may harm our business. Maintaining the security of computers, computer networks, hosted solutions and the transmission of confidential information over public networks is essential to commerce and communications, particularly in the market in which Advent operates. Efforts of others to seek unauthorized access to Advent's or its clients' computers and networks or introduce viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that disable or impair computers into our systems or those of our customers or other third parties, could disrupt or make our systems inaccessible or allow access to proprietary information and data of Advent or its clients. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments, also could result in compromises or breaches of 29 Table of Contents our security systems. Our security measures may be inadequate to prevent security breaches, exposing us to a risk of data loss, financial loss, harm to reputation, business interruption, litigation and other possible liabilities, as well as possibly requiring us to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. Potential changes in securities laws and regulation governing the investment industry's use of soft dollars may reduce our revenues. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 360 or 4% of our clients utilized trading commissions ("soft dollar arrangements") to pay for software products and services. During fiscal 2007 and 2006, the total value of Advent products and services paid with soft dollars was approximately 4% and 5% of our total billings. Such soft dollar arrangements could be impacted by changes in the regulations governing those arrangements. During the fourth quarter of 2006, we completed the wind down of the "soft dollar" business of our SEC-registered broker/dealer subsidiary, Second Street Securities, as it no longer fits with our corporate strategy. Second Street Securities' soft dollar business offered our customers the ability to pay for Advent products and other third party products and services through brokerage commissions and other fee-based arrangements. We will continue to allow clients to utilize soft dollar arrangements to pay for Advent software products and services through other independent broker/dealers. In July 2006, the SEC published an Interpretive Release that provides guidance on money managers' use of client commissions to pay for brokerage and research services under the safe harbor set forth in Section 28(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Interpretive Release clarifies that money managers may use client commissions ("soft dollars") to pay only for eligible brokerage and research services. Among other matters, the Interpretive Release states that eligible brokerage includes those products and services that relate to the execution of the trade from the point at which the money manager communicates with the broker-dealer for the purpose of transmitting an order for execution, through the point at which funds or securities are delivered or credited to the advised account. In addition, for potentially "mixed-use" items (such as trade order management systems) that are partly eligible and partly ineligible, the Interpretive Release states that money managers must make a reasonable allocation of client commissions in accordance with the eligible and ineligible uses of the items. Based on this new guidance, our customers may change their method of paying all or a portion of certain Advent products or services from soft to hard dollars, and as a result reduce their usage of these products or services in order to avoid increasing expenses, which could cause our revenues to decrease. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or our filings may not be timely. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our stock. Effective internal control is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our business and operating results could be harmed. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal control that need improvement including control deficiencies that may constitute material weaknesses. For example, as of December 31, 2005, the Company did not maintain effective controls over the accounting for income taxes, including the determination of deferred income tax liabilities and the related income tax provision. This control deficiency resulted in adjustments to the fourth quarter of 2004 and 2005 financial statements and a restatement of the Company's financial statements for each of the first three quarters of fiscal 2004 and 2005. 30 Table of Contents The Company also did not maintain effective controls over the accuracy, presentation and disclosure of the pro forma stock-based compensation expense in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles as of December 31, 2005. As a result of this control deficiency, the Company's disclosures of stock-based compensation expense for fiscal 2003 and 2004 and the first three quarters of 2004 and 2005 were revised. During 2006, we implemented controls and procedures to improve our internal control over financial reporting and address the material weaknesses identified in fiscal 2004 and 2005. Management has concluded that the Company's internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2006, 2007, and 2008. We do not expect that our internal control over financial reporting will prevent all errors or fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. Over time, controls may become inadequate because changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may occur. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Any failure to implement or maintain improvements in our internal control over financial reporting, or difficulties encountered in the implementation of these improvements in our controls, could cause significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls and consequently cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Any failure to implement or maintain required new or improved internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative impact on the trading price of our stock. Our ability to conclude that a control deficiency is not a material weakness or that an accounting error does not require a restatement can be affected by a number of factors, including our level of pre-tax income. Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our management is required to assess the impact of control deficiencies based upon both quantitative and qualitative factors, and depending upon that analysis we classify such identified deficiencies as either a control deficiency, significant deficiency or a material weakness. One element of our quantitative analysis of any control deficiency is its actual or potential financial impact, and any impact that is greater than 5% of our pre-tax income in any quarter may be more likely to result in that deficiency being determined to be a significant deficiency or a material weakness. For example, our assessment of a control deficiency as a significant deficiency or material weakness remains dependent in part on our level of profitability during a particular quarter. If our quarterly or fiscal year pre-tax income were to decrease, this will make it statistically less likely for us and our independent registered public accounting firm to determine that a control deficiency is not a material weakness. In addition, if management or our independent registered public accountants identify errors in our interim or annual financial statements, it is statistically more likely that such errors may meet the quantitative threshold established under Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 99, "Materiality", that could, depending upon the complete qualitative and quantitative analysis, result in our having to restate previously issued financial statements. 31 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 