Risk Factors The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. Please see page 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional discussion of these forward-looking statements. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Factors beyond our control could cause our quarterly results to fluctuate. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. Many of the factors that could cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate significantly in the future are beyond our control and include, but are not limited to, the following: • Changes in general economic conditions and specific economic conditions in the computer, storage, and networking industries • General decrease in global corporate spending on information technology leading to a decline in demand for our products • A shift in federal government spending pattern • The effects of terrorist activity and international conflicts, which could lead to business interruptions and difficulty in forecasting • The level of competition in our target product markets • The size, timing, and cancellation of significant orders • Product configuration and mix • The extent to which our customers renew their service and maintenance contracts with us • Market acceptance of new products and product enhancements • Announcements, introductions, and transitions of new products by us or our competitors • Deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products or product enhancements introduced by us or our competitors • Changes in pricing by us in response to competitive pricing actions 21 Table of Contents • Our ability to develop, introduce, and market new products and enhancements in a timely manner • Supply constraints • Technological changes in our target product markets • The levels of expenditure on research and development and sales and marketing programs • Our ability to achieve targeted cost reductions • Excess facilities • Future accounting pronouncements and changes in accounting policies • Seasonality In addition, sales for any future quarter may vary and accordingly be inconsistent with our plans. We manufacture products based on a combination of specific order requirements and forecasts of our customer demands. Products are typically shipped within one to four weeks following receipt of an order. In certain circumstances, customers may cancel or reschedule orders without penalty. Product sales are also difficult to forecast because the network storage market is rapidly evolving and our sales cycle varies substantially from customer to customer. The majority of revenue in any given quarter is derived from orders booked in the same quarter. Bookings typically follow intra-quarter seasonality patterns weighted towards the back-end of the quarter. If bookings in the latter part of a quarter are not achieved, there is a potential impact to revenue. Due to all of the foregoing factors, it is possible that in one or more future quarters our results may fall below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In such event, the trading price of our common stock would likely decrease. An increase in competition could materially adversely affect our operating results. The storage and content delivery markets are intensely competitive and are characterized by rapidly changing technology. In the storage market, our primary and nearline storage system products and our associated storage software portfolio competes primarily with storage system products and data management software from EMC Corporation, Hitachi Data Systems, Hewlett-Packard Company, IBM Corporation, and Sun Microsystems, Inc. We also see Dell, Inc. as an emerging competitor in the storage marketplace, primarily due to a business partnership that has been established between Dell and EMC, allowing Dell to resell EMC storage hardware and software products. We have also historically encountered less-frequent competition from companies including Engenio Information Technologies, Inc. (formerly the Storage Systems Group of LSI Logic Corp.), StorageTek Technology Corporation, Dot Hill Systems Corporation, and Xiotech Corporation. In the nearline storage market, which includes the disk-to-disk backup and regulated data storage segments, our NearStore appliances compete primarily against products from EMC and StorageTek. Our NearStore appliances also compete indirectly with traditional tape backup solutions in the broader data backup/recovery space. In the content delivery market, our NetCache appliances and content delivery software compete against caching appliance and content delivery software vendors including BlueCoat Systems (formerly CacheFlow, Inc.) and Cisco Systems, Inc. Our NetCache business is also subject to indirect competition from content delivery service products such as those offered by Akamai Technologies. Additionally, a number of new, privately held companies are currently attempting to enter the storage systems and data management software markets, the nearline storage market, and the caching and content delivery markets, some of which may become significant competitors in the future. We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting the storage and content delivery markets include product benefits such as response time, reliability, data availability, scalability, ease of use, price, multiprotocol capabilities, and global service and support. We must continue to maintain and enhance this 22 Table of Contents technological advantage over our competitors. Otherwise, if those competitors with greater financial, marketing, service, support, technical, and other resources were able to offer products that matched or surpassed the technological capabilities of our products, these competitors would, by virtue of these greater resources, gain a competitive advantage over us that could lead to greater sales for these competitors at the expense of our own market share, which would have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Increased competition could also result in price reductions, reduced gross margins, and loss of market share, any of which could materially adversely affect our operating results. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale, and support of their products. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors. Competitive pressures we face could materially adversely affect our operating results. We rely on a limited number of suppliers, and any disruption or termination of these supply arrangements could delay shipment of our products and could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We rely on a limited number of suppliers of several key components utilized in the assembly of our products. We purchase most of our disk drives through a single supplier. We purchase computer boards and microprocessors from a limited number of suppliers. Our reliance on a limited number of suppliers involves several risks, including: • A potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components because we do not have long-term supply commitments • Supplier capacity constraints • Price increases • Timely delivery • Component quality Component quality is particularly significant with respect to our suppliers of disk drives. In order to meet product performance requirements, we must obtain disk drives of extremely high quality and capacity. In addition, there are periodic supply-and-demand issues for disk drives, microprocessors, and semiconductor memory components, which could result in component shortages, selective supply allocations, and increased prices of such components. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain our full requirements of such components in the future or that prices of such components will not increase. In addition, problems with respect to yield and quality of such components and timeliness of deliveries could occur. Disruption or termination of the supply of these components could delay shipments of our products and could materially adversely affect our operating results. Such delays could also damage relationships with current and prospective customers. In addition, we license certain technology and software from third parties that is incorporated into our products. If we are unable to obtain or license the technology and software on a timely basis, we will not be able to deliver products to our customers in a timely manner. The loss of any contract manufacturers or the failure to accurately forecast demand for our products or successfully manage our relationships with our contract manufacturers could negatively impact our ability to manufacture and sell our products. We currently rely on several contract manufacturers to manufacture most of our products. Our reliance on our third-party contract manufacturers reduces our control over the manufacturing process, exposing us to 23 Table of Contents risks, including reduced control over quality assurance, production costs, and product supply. If we should fail to effectively manage our relationships with our contract manufacturers, or if our contract manufacturers experience delays, disruptions, capacity constraints, or quality control problems in their manufacturing operations, our ability to ship products to our customers could be impaired and our competitive position and reputation could be harmed. Qualifying a new contract manufacturer and commencing volume production are expensive and time-consuming. If we are required to change contract manufacturers or assume internal manufacturing operations, we may lose revenue and damage our customer relationships. If we inaccurately forecast demand for our products, we may have excess or inadequate inventory or incur cancellation charges or penalties, which could adversely impact our operating results. As of April 30, 2005, we have no purchase commitment under these agreements. We intend to regularly introduce new products and product enhancements, which will require us to rapidly achieve volume production by coordinating with our contract manufacturers and suppliers. We may need to increase our material purchases, contract manufacturing capacity, and internal test and quality functions to meet anticipated demand. The inability of our contract manufacturers to provide us with adequate supplies of high-quality products, or the inability to obtain raw materials, could cause a delay in our ability to fulfill orders. Our future financial performance depends on growth in the network storage and content delivery markets. If these markets do not continue to grow at the rates at which we forecast growth, our operating results will be materially and adversely impacted. All of our products address the storage and content delivery markets. Accordingly, our future financial performance will depend in large part on continued growth in the storage and content delivery markets and on our ability to adapt to emerging standards in these markets. We cannot assure you that the markets for storage and content delivery will continue to grow or that emerging standards in these markets will not adversely affect the growth of UNIX, Windows, and the World Wide Web server markets upon which we depend. For example, we provide our open access data retention solutions to customers within the financial services, healthcare, pharmaceuticals, and government market segments, industries that are subject to various evolving governmental regulations with respect to data access, reliability, and permanence (such as Rule 17(a)(4) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) in the United States and in the other countries in which we operate. If our products do not meet, and continue to comply with, these evolving governmental regulations in this regard, customers in these market and geographical segments will not purchase our products, and, therefore, we will not be able to expand our product offerings in these market and geographical segments at the rates for which we have forecast. In addition, our business also depends on general economic and business conditions. A reduction in demand for network storage and content delivery caused by weakening economic conditions and decreases in corporate spending will result in decreased revenues and lower revenue growth rates. The network storage and content delivery market growth declined significantly beginning in the third quarter of fiscal 2001, causing both our revenues and operating results to decline. If the network storage and content delivery markets grow more slowly than anticipated or if emerging standards other than those adopted by us become increasingly accepted by these markets, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. If we are unable to develop and introduce new products and respond to technological change, if our new products do not achieve market acceptance, or if we fail to manage the transition between our new and old products, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Our future growth depends upon the successful development and introduction of new hardware and software products. Due to the complexity of storage subsystems and Internet caching devices, and the difficulty in gauging the engineering effort required to produce new products, such products are subject to significant technical risks. However, we cannot assure you that any of our new products will achieve market acceptance. Additional product introductions in future periods may also impact our sales of existing products. In addition, our new products must respond to technological changes and evolving industry standards. If we 24 Table of Contents are unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, or if such products do not achieve market acceptance, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. In particular, in conjunction with the introduction of our product offerings in the fabric-attached storage market, we introduced products with new features and functionality that address the storage area network market. We face risks relating to these product introductions, including risks relating to forecasting of demand for such products, as well as possible product and software defects and a potentially different sales and support environment associated with selling these new systems. If any of the foregoing occurs, our operating results could be adversely affected. As new or enhanced products are introduced, we must successfully manage the transition from older products in order to minimize disruption in customers’ ordering patterns, avoid excessive levels of older product inventories, and ensure that enough supplies of new products can be delivered to meet customers’ demands. Our gross margins may vary based on the configuration of our product and service solutions, and such variation may make it more difficult to forecast our earnings. We derive a significant portion of our sales from the resale of disk drives as components of our storage systems, and the resale market for hard disk drives is highly competitive and subject to intense pricing pressures. Our sales of disk drives generate lower gross margin percentages than those of our storage systems. As a result, as we sell more highly configured systems with greater disk drive content, overall gross margin percentages may be negatively affected. Our gross margins have been and may continue to be affected by a variety of other factors, including: • Demand for storage and content delivery products • Discount levels and price competition • Direct versus indirect sales • Product and add-on software mix • The mix of services as a percentage of revenue • The mix and average selling prices of products • The mix of disk content • New product introductions and enhancements • Excess inventory purchase commitments as a result of changes in demand forecasts and possible product and software defects as we transition our products • The cost of components, manufacturing labor, and quality Changes in service gross margin may result from various factors such as continued investments in our customer support infrastructure, changes in the mix between technical support services and professional services, as well as the timing of technical support service contract initiations and renewals. We may incur problems with current or future acquisitions and equity investments, and these investments may not achieve our objectives. As part of our strategy, we are continuously evaluating opportunities to buy other businesses or technologies that would complement our current products, expand the breadth of our markets, or enhance our technical capabilities. See Note 11 — Business Combinations and Note 15 — Subsequent Events. We may engage in future acquisitions that dilute our stockholders’ investments and cause us to use cash, to incur debt, or to assume contingent liabilities. 25 Table of Contents Acquisitions of companies entail numerous risks, and we may not be able to successfully integrate acquired operations and products or realize anticipated synergies, economies of scale, or other value. Integration risks and issues may include, but not limited to, key personnel retention and assimilation, management distraction, technical development, and unexpected costs and liabilities, including goodwill impairment charges. In addition, we may experience a diversion of management’s attention, the loss of key employees of acquired operations, or the inability to recover strategic investments in development stage entities. Any such problems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operation. From time to time, we make equity investments for the promotion of business and strategic objectives. We have already made strategic investments in a number of network storage-related technology companies. Equity investments may result in the loss of investment capital. The market price and valuation of our equity investments in these companies may fluctuate due to market conditions and other circumstances over which we have little or no control. To the extent that the fair value of these securities is less than our cost over an extended period of time, our results of operations and financial position could be negatively impacted. In fiscal 2003, we recorded noncash write-downs of $2.0 million related to the impairment of our investment in publicly traded and private companies as its reduction in value was judged to be other-than-temporary. Our ability to increase our revenues depends on expanding our direct sales operations and reseller distribution channels and continuing to provide excellent global service and support. If we are unable to effectively develop, retain, and expand our global sales and service workforce or to establish and cultivate relationships with our indirect reseller and distribution channels, our ability to grow and increase revenue could be harmed. In an effort to gain market share and support our global customers, we will need to expand our worldwide direct sales operations and global service and support infrastructure to support new and existing enterprise customers. Expansion of our direct sales operations, reseller/distribution channels, and global service and support operations may not be successfully implemented, and the cost of any expansion may exceed the revenues generated. We market and sell our storage solutions directly through our worldwide sales force and indirectly through channels such as value-added resellers (“VARs”), systems integrators, distributors, and strategic business partners and derive a significant portion of our revenue from these indirect channel partners. However, in order for us to maintain our current revenue sources and grow our revenue as we have forecasted, we must effectively manage our relationships with these indirect channel partners. To do so, we must attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified channel partners to successfully market our products. However, because we also sell our products directly to customers through our sales force, on occasion we compete with our indirect channels for sales of our products to our end customers, competition that could result in conflicts with these indirect channel partners and make it harder for us to attract and retain these indirect channel partners. At the same time, our indirect channel partners may develop and offer products of their own that are competitive to ours. Or, because our reseller partners generally offer products from several different companies, including products of our competitors, these resellers may give higher priority to the marketing, sales, and support of our competitors’ products than ours. If we fail to manage effectively our relationships with these indirect channel partners to minimize channel conflict and continue to evaluate and meet our indirect sales partners’ needs with respect to our products, we will not be able to maintain or increase our revenue as we have forecasted, which would have a materially adverse affect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Additionally, if we do not manage distribution of our products and services and support effectively, or if our resellers’ financial conditions or operations weaken, our revenues and gross margins could be adversely affected. Risks inherent in our international operations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We conduct business internationally. For fiscal year 2005, 47.9% of our total revenues was from international customers (including U.S. exports). Accordingly, our future operating results could be materially 26 Table of Contents adversely affected by a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including regulatory, political, or economic conditions in a specific country or region, trade protection measures and other regulatory requirements, government spending patterns, and acts of terrorism and international conflicts. Our international sales are denominated in U.S. dollars and in foreign currencies. An increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products more expensive and, therefore, potentially less competitive in foreign markets. For international sales and expenditures denominated in foreign currencies, we are subject to risks associated with currency fluctuations. We utilize forward and option contracts to hedge our foreign currency exposure associated with certain assets and liabilities as well as anticipated foreign currency cash flow. All balance sheet hedges are marked to market through earnings every period, while gains and losses on cash flow hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income. These hedges attempt to reduce, but do not always entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange movements. Factors that could have an impact on the effectiveness of our hedging program include the accuracy of forecasts and the volatility of foreign currency markets. There can be no assurance that such hedging strategies will be successful and that currency exchange rate fluctuations will not have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Additional risks inherent in our international business activities generally include, among others, longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in managing international operations. Such factors could materially adversely affect our future international sales and, consequently, our operating results. Potentially adverse tax consequences could also negatively impact the operating and financial results from international operations. International operations currently benefit from a tax ruling concluded in the Netherlands. Additional risks inherent in our international business activities generally include, among others, longer accounts receivable payment cycles, difficulties in managing international operations, and potentially adverse tax consequences. Such factors could materially adversely affect our future international sales and, consequently, our operating results. Although operating results have not been materially adversely affected by seasonality in the past, because of the significant seasonal effects experienced within the industry, particularly in Europe, our future operating results could be materially adversely affected by seasonality. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products. If we are unable to maintain our existing relationships and develop new relationships with major strategic partners, our revenue may be impacted negatively. An element of our strategy to increase revenue is to strategically partner with major third-party software and hardware vendors that integrate our products into their products and also comarket our products with these vendors. A number of these strategic partners are industry leaders that offer us expanded access to segments of the storage market. There is intense competition for attractive strategic partners, and even if we can establish strategic relationships with these partners, we cannot assure you that these partnerships will generate significant revenue or that the partnerships will continue to be in effect for any specific period of time. We intend to continue to establish and maintain business relationships with technology companies to accelerate the development and marketing of our storage solutions. To the extent we are unsuccessful in developing new relationships and maintaining our existing relationships, our future revenue and operating results could be impacted negatively. In addition, the loss of a strategic partner could have a material adverse effect on the progress of our new products under development with that partner. 27 Table of Contents A significant percentage of our expenses are fixed, which could materially and adversely affect our net income. Our expense levels are based in part on our expectations as to future sales, and a significant percentage of our expenses are fixed. As a result, if sales levels are below expectations or previously higher levels, net income will be disproportionately affected in a material and adverse manner. If we fail to manage our expanding business effectively, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. We have experienced growth in fiscal 2005 and 2004. Our future operating results depend to a large extent on management’s ability to successfully manage expansion and growth, including but not limited to expanding international operations, forecasting revenues, addressing new markets, controlling expenses, implementing infrastructure and systems, and managing our assets. In addition, an unexpected decline in the growth rate of revenues without a corresponding and timely reduction in expense growth or a failure to manage other aspects of growth could materially adversely affect our operating results. The market price for our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and will likely continue to do so in the future. The market price for our common stock has experienced substantial volatility in the past, and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future. These factors include but are not limited to: • Fluctuations in our operating results • Fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us • Economic developments in the network storage market as a whole • International conflicts and acts of terrorism • A shortfall in revenues or earnings compared to securities analysts’ expectations • Changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections • Announcements of new products, applications, or product enhancements by us or our competitors • Changes in our relationships with our suppliers, customers, and channel and strategic partners • General market conditions In addition, the stock market has experienced volatility that has particularly affected the market prices of equity securities of many technology companies. Additionally, certain macroeconomic factors such as changes in interest rates, the market climate for the technology sector, and levels of corporate spending on information technology could also have an impact on the trading price of our stock. As a result, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in the future, and any broad market decline, as well as our own operating results, may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our business could be materially adversely affected as a result of a natural disaster, terrorist acts, or other catastrophic events. Our operations, including our suppliers’ and contract manufacturers’ operations, are susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss, power shortages, telecommunications failures, break-ins, and similar events. In addition, our headquarters are located in Northern California, an area susceptible to earthquakes. If any significant disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business could be impaired. Weak economic conditions or terrorist actions could lead to significant business interruptions. If such disruptions result in cancellations of customer orders, a general decrease in corporate spending on information 28 Table of Contents technology, or direct impacts on our marketing, manufacturing, financial functions or our suppliers’ logistics function, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We depend on attracting and retaining qualified technical and sales personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain such personnel, our operating results could be materially and adversely impacted. Our continued success depends, in part, on our ability to identify, attract, motivate, and retain qualified technical and sales personnel. Because our future success is dependent on our ability to continue to enhance and introduce new products, we are particularly dependent on our ability to identify, attract, motivate, and retain qualified engineers with the requisite education, backgrounds, and industry experience. Competition for qualified engineers, particularly in Silicon Valley, can be intense. The loss of the services of a significant number of our engineers or salespeople could be disruptive to our development efforts or business relationships and could materially adversely affect our operating results. Undetected software, hardware errors, or failures found in new products may result in loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products, which could increase our costs and reduce our revenues. Our products may contain undetected software, hardware errors, or failures when first introduced or as new versions are released. Despite testing by us and by current and potential customers, errors may not be found in new products until after commencement of commercial shipments, resulting in loss of or delay in market acceptance, which could materially adversely affect our operating results. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may be subject to increased competition that could materially adversely affect our operating results. Our success depends significantly upon our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions, and patents to protect our proprietary rights. We seek to protect our software, documentation, and other written materials under trade secret, copyright, and patent laws, which afford only limited protection. Some U.S. trademarks and some U.S.-registered trademarks are registered internationally as well. We will continue to evaluate the registration of additional trademarks as appropriate. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and with our resellers, strategic partners, and customers. We currently have multiple U.S. and international patent applications pending and multiple U.S. patents issued. The pending applications may not be approved, and if patents are issued, such patents may be challenged. If such challenges are brought, the patents may be invalidated. We cannot assure you that we will develop proprietary products or technologies that are patentable, that any issued patent will provide us with any competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties, or that the patents of others will not materially adversely affect our ability to do business. Litigation may be necessary to protect our proprietary technology. Any such litigation may be time-consuming and costly. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. We cannot assure you that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products, or design around patents issued to us or other intellectual property rights of ours. We are subject to intellectual property infringement claims. We may, from time to time, receive claims that we are infringing third parties’ intellectual property rights. Third parties may in the future claim infringement by us with respect to current or future products, patents, trademarks, or other proprietary rights. We expect that companies in the appliance market will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. Any such claims could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays, require us to redesign our products, or require us to enter into royalty or 29 Table of Contents licensing agreements, any of which could materially adversely affect our operating results. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. Our business is subject to changing laws and regulations and public disclosure that has increased both our costs and the risk of noncompliance. Failure to comply with these new regulations could have an adverse effect on our business and stock price. Because our common stock is publicly traded, we are subject to certain rules and regulations of federal, state, and financial market exchange entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC, and NASDAQ, have implemented new requirements and regulations and continue developing additional regulations and requirements in response to recent corporate scandals and laws enacted by Congress, most notably the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our efforts to comply with these new regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue resulting in, increased general and administrative expenses and diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. We have recently completed our evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Although our assessment, testing, and evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of April 30, 2005, our internal controls over financial reporting were effective, we cannot predict the outcome of our testing in future periods. If our internal controls are ineffective in future periods, our business and reputation could be harmed. We may incur additional expenses and commitment of management’s time in connection with further evaluations, either of which could materially increase our operating expenses and accordingly reduce our net income. We also face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and upcoming requirements relating to the materials composition of many of our products. The European Union (“EU”) has adopted two directives to facilitate the recycling of electrical and electronic equipment sold in the EU. The first of these is the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) directive, which directs EU member states to enact laws, regulations, and administrative provisions to ensure that producers of electrical and electronic equipment are financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment, and environmentally sound disposal of products placed on the market after August 13, 2005, and from products in use prior to that date that are being replaced. The EU has also adopted the Restriction on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“RoHS”) directive. The RoHS directive restricts the use of lead, mercury, and certain other substances in electrical and electronic products placed on the market in the European Union after July 1, 2006. Similar laws and regulations have been or may be enacted in other regions, including in the United States, China, and Japan. Other environmental regulations may require us to reengineer our products to utilize components that are more environmentally compatible, and such reengineering and component substitution may result in additional costs to us. Although we do not anticipate any material adverse effects based on the nature of our operations and the effect of such laws, there is no assurance that such existing laws or future laws will not have a material adverse effect on our business. Changes in financial accounting standards or practices may cause adverse unexpected fluctuations and affect our reported business and financial results. In December 2004 the FASB issued SFAS No. 123R (revised 2004), which will require us, beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2007, to expense employee stock options for financial reporting purposes. Adoption of SFAS No. 123R will result in lower reported earnings per share, which could negatively impact our future stock price. In addition, this could also impact our ability or future practice of utilizing broad-based employee stock plans to attract, reward, and retain employees, which could also adversely impact our operations. In addition, the FASB requires certain valuation models to estimate the fair value of employee stock options. These models, including the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, use varying methods, inputs, and assumptions selected across companies. If another party asserts that the fair value of our employee stock options is misstated, securities class action litigation could be brought against us, or the market price of our 30 Table of Contents common stock could decline, or both could occur. As a result of these changes, we could incur losses, and our operating results and gross margins may be below our expectations and those of investors and stock market analysts. The U.S. government has contributed to our revenue growth and become an important customer for us. However, government demand is unpredictable, and there is no guarantee of future revenue growth from the U.S. government. The U.S. government has become an important customer for the storage market and for us. Government agencies are subject to budgetary processes and expenditure constraints that could lead to delays or decreased capital expenditures in IT spending on infrastructures. If the government or individual agencies within the government reduce or shift their capital spending pattern, our financial results may be harmed. We cannot assure you that revenue from the U.S. government will continue to grow in the future. 