ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks, uncertainties and other factors described below, in addition to the other information set forth in this report, because they could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition, cash flows and prospects as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our Common Stock. Risks Related to Our Business We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from the Angio-Seal device, which is manufactured, marketed and distributed by St. Jude Medical. We have entered into a new component supply agreement with St. Jude Medical, under which their component purchase commitments are reduced. A termination of, or other adverse change in, our relationship with St. Jude Medical could have a material adverse impact on our business. Under our license agreements with St. Jude Medical, the Angio-Seal device is manufactured, marketed and sold on a worldwide basis by St. Jude Medical. Two of our significant sources of revenue are the sale of components to St. Jude Medical for incorporation into the Angio-Seal device, and royalty income from the sale of the Angio-Seal device by St. Jude Medical to the end-user market. The amount of revenue we receive from the Angio-Seal device depends, in part, on the time, effort and attention that St. Jude Medical devotes to it, and on their success in manufacturing, marketing and selling the device worldwide. For fiscal 2010, royalty income from, and sales of components to, St. Jude Medical represented approximately 49% of our total revenue. Under the terms of our licenses with St. Jude Medical, we have no control over the pricing and marketing strategy for the Angio-Seal product line. In addition, we depend on St. Jude Medical to successfully maintain levels of manufacturing sufficient to meet anticipated demand, abide by applicable manufacturing regulations and seek reimbursement approvals. Royalty income under our license agreements with St. Jude Medical will end upon the earlier of (1) the termination of the license agreements, which may be terminated by St. Jude Medical for any reason upon 12 months notice, or (2) the expiration of the last claim of any of the licensed patents. St. Jude Medical may not adequately perform its manufacturing, marketing and selling duties. Any such failure by St. Jude Medical may negatively impact Angio-Seal unit sales and, therefore, reduce our royalties. Pursuant to our current supply agreement with St. Jude Medical, which expires in December 2010, we manufacture two of the key resorbable components of the Angio-Seal device for St. Jude Medical; 100% of their requirements for the collagen plug and at least 30% of their requirements for the polymer anchors. In fiscal year 2010, our collagen plug sales to St. Jude Medical were approximately $17.1 million and our polymer anchor sales to St. Jude Medical were approximately $1.9 million. In August 2008, St. Jude Medical acquired certain assets of Datascope Corporation providing St. Jude Medical with a potential alternative source for the collagen component that could reduce or eliminate the future sales of collagen supplied by us to St. Jude Medical. In February 2010, St. Jude Medical announced that they had received U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval as an alternative supplier for the collagen plug, and that they would be in a position to serve as a supplier of the collagen plug by December 2010. In June 2010, we entered into a new two-year supply agreement for the period from January 1, 2011 to December 31, 2012. The new supply agreement does not call for us to supply any polymer anchors to St. Jude Medical, and the new supply agreement substantially reduces the collagen plug quantities which St. Jude Medical is required to purchase from us. The new supply agreement provides for calendar year 2011 minimum order levels equivalent to approximately 25% of our fiscal 2010 collagen plug sales, and calendar year 2012 minimum order levels equivalent to approximately 20% of our fiscal 2010 collagen plug sales. As a result, if St. Jude Medical is able to, and does in fact, rely on its internal manufacturing to fulfill its requirements for collagen plugs for the Angio-Seal device in excess of the minimum it must purchase from us, our related product sales will be substantially lower. Royalties under the Angio-Seal license agreement between St. Jude Medical and us are not affected by the new supply agreement. 16 Table of Contents We derive a substantial majority of our revenues from only three customers. A substantial majority of our total revenues are derived from only three customers. For fiscal 2010, in addition to the approximate 49% of our total revenue derived from royalty income from and sales of components to St. Jude Medical, sales of biomaterials products to Arthrex represented approximately 20% of our total revenues, and royalty income from and sales of biomaterials products to Orthovita represented approximately 17% of our total revenue. It is not possible for us to predict the future level of demand for our products that will be generated by these customers or the future demand for the products in the end-user marketplace. Our customer concentration exposes us to the risk of changes in the business condition of any of our major customers and to the risk that the loss of a major customer would materially adversely affect our results of operations. Our relationship with these customers is subject to change. In the past year, Orthovita’s sales efforts were focused on the launch of a new product developed by Orthovita, which is not part of any agreement with us. Although this new product does not compete with our co-developed products, the sales efforts may have negatively impacted sales of our co-developed products. Recently, Orthovita announced it will refocus its sales efforts on our co-developed products. There can be no assurance that such refocused efforts will result in higher sales. If our biomaterials products are not successful, our operating results and business may be substantially impaired. The success of our existing and future biomaterials products depends on a number of factors, including our ability to manufacture, sell and competitively price these products and the acceptance of these products by the medical community. We cannot predict how quickly, if at all, the medical community will accept our future products, or the extent to which our future products will be used. In addition, regulatory approvals will be required before biomaterials products in development can be sold. The bovine materials we use in some of our products are not always accepted for use in medical devices in all international markets. If we encounter difficulties introducing future products into our targeted markets, our operating results and business may be substantially impaired. In addition, new technologies and techniques may be developed which may render obsolete our current products, along with those under development. We will require substantial additional funds to develop and market our biomaterials products. We expect to fund the growth of our biomaterials business from cash flows from operations and cash and investments on-hand, but this operating income may not be sufficient to develop new biomaterials products. We rely on strategic partners or customers to market and sell our biomaterials products. We will need to continue to attract third parties, and retain our relationships with our current partners, to distribute our products to the end-user market. We depend on our customers to market and, in some cases, obtain regulatory approvals for products that include our biomaterials components. We depend on the efforts of our biomaterials customers in marketing their products that include our biomaterials components. There can be no assurance that our customers’ end-use products that include our biomaterials components will be commercialized successfully by our customers or that our customers will otherwise be able to compete effectively in their markets. While we take steps toward obtaining regulatory approval under certain of our partnerships and for some of our customers, in other cases, we rely on others to do these activities independently. There can be no assurance that our partners or customers will be successful in obtaining such regulatory approvals. The markets for our products are highly competitive and are likely to become more competitive, and our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. The markets for our current and proposed products are fragmented, intensely competitive, subject to rapid change and sensitive to new product introductions and enhancements. We expect that the competitive environment for 17 Table of Contents our products will become more intense as additional companies enter our markets, and as new techniques and technologies are adopted. Our biomaterials and medical devices compete directly and indirectly with a range of products and technologies produced by a wide variety of companies, as well as other processes and procedures which do not require the use of our products or those of our competitors. The bovine materials we use in some of our products are not always accepted for use in medical devices in all international markets. Many of our existing competitors, as well as a number of potential new competitors, have longer operating histories in these markets, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and greater financial, technical and marketing resources. Our biomaterials products, including products under development, compete with the products of many companies in the industry, including some of the largest. In the vascular sealing device market, our products compete with products sold by Abbott Laboratories and Access Closure, Inc., along with other competitors and potential new entrants. The majority of vascular sealing is performed through manual compression, which represents our primary competition. The ECM products we are developing compete with human and animal-derived products from such companies as Kinetic Concepts, Johnson & Johnson, Covidien, C.R. Bard Medical, Cook Medical, Wright Medical, and several other private and public companies that offer biologic scaffolds and meshes. Our cartilage repair development program competes with existing surgical procedures, such as microfracture, osteoarticular transfer system and allograft procedures. Currently in the U.S, there are no approved competitive implantable products to address focal articular cartilage defects. We believe there is only one U.S. approved cartilage repair product which is commercialized by Genzyme, which is a cell-based product that requires two surgeries and indicated to be used only after a failed microfracture procedure. We anticipate additional competition from several other companies that have cartilage products under various stages of development, including acellular cartilage repair products, as well as cell-based cartilage repair products. Our competitors may have broader product lines, which allow them to negotiate exclusive, long-term supply contracts and offer comprehensive pricing for their products. Broader product lines may also provide our competitors with a significant advantage in marketing competing products to group purchasing organizations and other managed care organizations that are increasingly seeking to reduce costs through centralized purchasing. Greater financial resources and product development capabilities may allow our competitors to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements that may render our products obsolete. Competition faced by our customers could also have an adverse effect on our business for a variety of reasons, including that our customers may compete directly with larger, dominant manufacturers with extensive product lines and greater sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. We are also unable to control other factors that may impact the commercialization of our components for end use products, such as marketing and sales efforts and competitive pricing pressures within particular markets. Spectranetics is exclusively responsible for worldwide sales and marketing of the endovascular product line. If any or all of these products fail to gain market acceptance or if Spectranetics fails to successfully commercialize them, our business may suffer. The QuickCat and ThromCat endovascular products, which are sold and marketed exclusively by Spectranetics, have limited product and brand recognition, and limited usage to date. Although we do not know if these products will be successful over the long term, or if they will be adopted by the physician community at rates that in turn generate enough revenue for us to sustain our ongoing investment in this business, we are required by contract to continue such investment. Market acceptance of these products may be hindered if physicians are not presented with compelling data from long-term studies of the safety and efficacy of the products compared to alternative procedures. Further, the success of these products depends, in large part, on the time, effort and attention that Spectranetics devotes to them, and on Spectranetics’ success in manufacturing and selling them. Demand for the QuickCat and ThromCat products has not increased as quickly as we expected. 18 Table of Contents As previously disclosed, Spectranetics publicly announced the discontinuation of sales of the Safe-Cross product line in our second quarter of fiscal 2010. Also, our second quarter of fiscal 2010 ended December 31, 2009 was the last quarter reflecting our sales of the QuickCat device, as the QuickCat manufacturing was transferred to Spectranetics as of December 2009. During the second quarter of fiscal 2010, pursuant to the terms of the Manufacturing and Licensing Agreement entered into with Spectranetics on May 30, 2008, we notified Spectranetics that we will not manufacture the ThromCat product at the end of our three-year manufacturing period, which is expected to be the fourth quarter of our fiscal 2011. Following the commencement of the manufacturing of the ThromCat product by Spectranetics or its designee, Spectranetics will pay a predetermined royalty rate on the end-user sales of the ThromCat product. As a result, our expectation for fiscal 2011, and thereafter, reflects that our manufacturing of the endovascular product line will be limited to the ThromCat product through the fourth quarter of our fiscal 2011, and sales of the ThromCat product continues to be dependent upon the sales and marketing efforts of Spectranetics. Furthermore, our achievement, in full of the $6.0 million cumulative sales milestone under the asset purchase agreement with Spectranetics, which is based upon sales of Safe-Cross (a product line which was discontinued in our fiscal 2010), ThromCat and QuickCat products, will at a minimum be delayed and may not occur at all. On December 29, 2009, Spectranetics announced the settlement of matters related to the federal investigation initiated by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). According to Spectranetics’ public disclosure of the December 2009 settlement, the resolution includes an agreement with the United States Department of Justice (the DOJ), as well as a Corporate Integrity Agreement with the Office of the Inspector General for the United States Department of Health and Human Services. Significant terms of the agreements, subject to certain conditions outlined therein, include an agreement by the DOJ not to prosecute Spectranetics, a $4.9 million payment by Spectranetics in consideration of a release from certain civil or administrative monetary claims resulting from certain alleged conduct associated with the federal investigation, and a separate agreement that specifies certain corporate integrity obligations. On August 30, 2010, the U.S. Attorney’s Office and the FDA’s Office of Criminal Investigations announced the indictment by a federal grand jury of the former Spectranetics CEO John Schulte and two other former company executives on conspiracy to defraud the federal government, lying to investigators, import violations and other charges. Although we do not believe the FDA or ICE investigation or settlement with Spectranetics, or the claims against the former Spectranetics executives, relate to any of our endovascular products sold to Spectranetics, our business may be adversely impacted if Spectranetics is hindered in its ability to market and sell the QuickCat and ThromCat products as a result of the federal investigation, its settlement, the indictment or related matters. Further, our ability to receive timely milestone payments from Spectranetics for our research and development achievements may be adversely impacted by Spectranetics’ cash requirements for settlement payments. Spectranetics announced on October 22, 2008, the appointment of Emile J. Geisenheimer, its chairman, to the additional roles of President and Chief Executive Officer, following the resignation of John G. Schulte as President, Chief Executive Officer and Director of Spectranetics. In addition, on April 2, 2010, Johnathan W. McGuire, resigned from his position as Chief Operating Officer, with Mr. Geisenheimer assuming those responsibilities. Our business, including revenues derived from endovascular sales, may be adversely impacted by the change in management if such change diverts focus and attention away from selling the endovascular products we sold to Spectranetics, and which we continue to develop and manufacture for Spectranetics. The loss of, or interruption of supply from, key vendors could limit our ability to manufacture our products. We purchase many materials and components for our products from various suppliers. Certain of these materials and components are custom made for us, and we have no ready alternative source. We also rely heavily on our closed-herd sourcing infrastructure for our collagen manufacturing, which cannot be readily replicated. Any loss of, problems with, or interruption of supply from, key vendors may require us to find new vendors. We could experience production or development delays while we attempt to seek new vendors, if we can find them. 19 Table of Contents We may have problems manufacturing and delivering our biomaterials products to our customers. The biomaterials industry is an emerging area, using many materials which are untested or whose properties are still not known. In addition, many of our products are derived from natural materials, such as collagen, which can have varying properties, may be subject to international standards concerning their use in medical devices and require careful sourcing and handling controls. Consequently, from time to time we may experience unanticipated difficulties in manufacturing and delivering our biomaterials products to our customers. These difficulties may include an inability to meet customer supply demands, delays in delivering products, quality control problems or the need to react to changes in any standard that we adhere to. There can be no assurance that our closed-herd sourcing infrastructure will provide us with an adequate risk management protection mechanism for preventing animal derived diseases from entering the human medical device industry. Our products may be the subject of recalls, which may result in other future expense or changes to product strategy. The FDA and similar foreign governmental authorities have the authority to require the recall of our products in the event of any failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations or defects in design or manufacture. A government mandated or voluntary product recall by us could occur if any of our biomaterial products do not meet approved specifications or data demonstrates that any such products may be unsafe or ineffective. A product recall may have an adverse affect on our net sales and operating results. In addition to lost sales directly resulting from recalls, and the direct expenses associated with such resolution, a recall may have other materially adverse, and potentially longer-term effects, including a negative impact on our reputation in the marketplace with respect to these and other of our products, changes to future product marketing plans, changes to clinical trial plans, and discontinuation of the recalled products. Our use of hazardous materials exposes us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. We use hazardous substances in our research and development and manufacturing operations, and therefore, are potentially subject to material liabilities related to personal injuries or property damages that could be caused by hazardous substance releases or exposures at or from our facility. Decontamination costs, other clean-up costs and related damages or liabilities could substantially impair our business and operating results. We are required to comply with increasingly stringent laws and regulations governing environmental protection and workplace safety, including requirements governing the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous substances. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived directly or indirectly from international markets. St. Jude Medical derives a significant portion of its Angio-Seal revenue from international markets. Many of our other biomaterials products are also sold by our customers in international markets. Our sales and royalties from international sales of the Angio-Seal product line by St. Jude Medical and our revenues from other international sales are subject to several risks, including: • the impact of recessions in economies outside the United States; • changes in regulatory requirements, reimbursement policies, tariffs or other trade barriers; • weaker intellectual property rights protection in some countries; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • potentially adverse tax consequences; and • political and economic instability. 20 Table of Contents Our financial position, results of operations or cash flows may be negatively impacted by the current challenging economic conditions in the U.S. and the recent financial crisis. The current challenging economic conditions in the U.S. could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Among other things, we believe this challenging economic climate has contributed to fewer patients electing to undergo elective procedures for which our products, or the products of our partners, are used. Further, the challenging economic environment and the decline in federal and state revenues resulting from these conditions may create additional pressures to reduce reimbursements for procedures performed by physicians, hospitals and other users of our products from third party insurance providers, as well as Medicare, Medicaid and other government sponsored programs. In particular, the recent weakness in the spinal market has been attributed to the ongoing high unemployment rate and increased insurance costs, which reduced doctor visits and negatively affected pricing, as well as, greater difficulty in obtaining insurance company procedure approvals. The majority of our investments are in highly rated U.S. government agency bonds and municipal bonds issued by states, cities, counties and other governmental entities. We have not experienced any liquidity or impairment issues with our investments. However, due to recent economic conditions, bond issuers’ financial condition and the credit markets have continued to be highly volatile, and there can be no assurance that these conditions will not in the future adversely affect the liquidity or value of our investments in U.S. government agency bonds or municipal bonds. If these challenging economic conditions continue, or any investments in our portfolio experience any ratings downgrades, we may incur impairments to our investment portfolio, which could negatively affect our financial condition, cash flows and results of operation. The recent financial troubles affecting the banking system and financial markets and the on-going concerns and threats to investment banks and other financial institutions have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit and equity markets. There could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on our business, including insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products and/or customer insolvencies; and counterparty failures negatively impacting our debt and treasury activities. Our business could be harmed if we lose the services of our key personnel. Our business depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel, including managerial and technical personnel. The know-how and capabilities of many of our current employees is highly specialized and difficult to replicate or replace in short timeframes. We compete for key personnel with other medical device companies, healthcare institutions, and other organizations. Our ability to maintain and expand our business may be impaired if we are unable to retain our current key personnel or hire or retain other qualified personnel in the future. Any acquisitions that we undertake could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or harm our operating results. We may acquire or make investments in complementary businesses, technologies, services or products if appropriate opportunities arise. The process of integrating any acquired business, technology, service or product into our business and operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Integration of any acquired company also may consume much of our management’s time and attention that could otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business. Moreover, the anticipated benefits of any acquisition may not be realized. Furthermore, we may be unable to identify, negotiate or finance future acquisitions successfully. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets. 21 Table of Contents Our future operating results are difficult to predict and may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Our operating results have varied significantly from quarter to quarter in the past and are likely to vary substantially in the future as a result of a number of factors, some of which are not in our control, including: • ordering patterns by our customers/partners; • the focus and resources that our customers/partners place on developing/marketing the products that we develop and manufacture; • acceptance of the products we develop and manufacture in the end-user marketplace; • our ability to attract partners for our biomaterials products and technologies; • our efforts to gain European CE Mark and FDA approval for biomaterials and endovascular devices; • the loss of significant orders; • changes in our relationship with St. Jude Medical and other major customers; • establishment of strategic alliances or acquisitions; • timely implementation of new and improved products; • delays in obtaining regulatory approvals; • reimbursement rates for our products; • fluctuations in exchange rates; and • changes in the competitive environment. You should not rely upon our results of operations for any particular quarter as an indication of our results for a full year or any other quarter. Our products are subject to clinical trials, which may delay commercialization of our products and may impact our use of time and resources in a material manner. A clinical trial is almost always required to support a PMA application, and is sometimes required for a 510(k) premarket notification. Accordingly, many of our products are subject to clinical trials, which must be conducted before our products can be marketed. These trials are for the purpose of confirming the safety and effectiveness of the product. We try to plan clinical trials prudently, but there is no guarantee that a proper balance of speed and testing will be made in each case. The length of time for each clinical trial may vary substantially according to the type, complexity and intended use of the product. Delays associated with products for which we are conducting clinical trials may cause us to incur additional expenses. Further, we may be affected by delays in clinical testing of certain products of our strategic partners, over which we may have no control. Unfavorable or inconsistent clinical data from existing or future clinical trials conducted by us, by our strategic partners, by our competitors or by other third parties, or the market’s perception of this clinical data, may adversely impact our ability to obtain product approvals, our position in, and share of, the markets in which we participate and our business, financial condition, results of operations or future prospects. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we are unable to protect our patents and proprietary rights, our reputation and competitiveness in the marketplace may be materially damaged. We regard our patents, biomaterials trade secrets and other intellectual property as important to our success. We rely upon patent law, trade secret protection, confidentiality agreements and license agreements to protect our proprietary rights. Although we have registered certain of our patents with applicable international governmental 22 Table of Contents authorities, effective patent protection may not be available in every country in which our products are made available, and we have not sought protection for our intellectual property in every country where our products may be sold. The steps we take to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to ensure that third parties will not infringe or otherwise violate our patents or similar proprietary rights. Furthermore, patents are of limited duration and may not provide protection for the entire useful life of a product or product line. We may be accused of infringing upon the proprietary rights of others and any related litigation could materially damage our operating results and business. Third parties may claim that we have violated their intellectual property rights. An adverse determination in any intellectual property litigation or interference proceedings brought against us could prohibit us from selling our products, subject us to significant liabilities to third parties or require us to seek licenses from third parties. The costs associated with these license arrangements may be substantial and could include ongoing royalties. Furthermore, the necessary licenses may not be available to us on satisfactory terms, if at all. Adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products. Any of these claims, with or without merit, could subject us to costly litigation and divert the attention of key personnel. The validity of our patents may be challenged by a competitor. Third parties may claim that one of our patents is invalid based on their prior disclosure or that of another party, whether such disclosure is in a patent application or not. This type of challenge may be made in any country where our patents are issued. While we undertake to search the prior art, there is no guarantee that we find all existing incidences of disclosure of devices or technologies related to our inventions. Any of these claims, with or without merit, could subject us to costly litigation and divert the attention of key personnel. We do not own or control the use of the Angio-Seal device trademark. The term “Angio-Seal” is a trademark of St. Jude Medical. All goodwill generated by the marketing and sales of devices bearing the Angio-Seal trademark belongs to St. Jude Medical and not to us. Should the St. Jude Medical license agreements terminate, we would not have the right to call any of our products “Angio-Seal” unless we purchase or license the trademark from St. Jude Medical. Risks Related to Our Industry We may face product liability claims that could result in costly litigation and significant liabilities. The clinical testing, manufacture and sale of medical products involve an inherent risk that human subjects in clinical testing or consumers of the products may suffer serious bodily injury or death due to side effects or other unintended negative reactions to our products. Accordingly, the clinical testing, manufacture and sale of our products entail significant risk of product liability claims. The medical device industry in general has been subject to significant product liability litigation. Any product liability claims, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation, reduced sales, significant liabilities and diversion of our management’s time, attention and resources. We cannot be sure that our product liability insurance coverage is adequate or that it will continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. We face uncertainty relating to third party reimbursement for our products. We could be seriously harmed by changes in reimbursement policies of governmental or private healthcare payers, particularly to the extent any changes affect reimbursement for catheterization procedures in which our Angio-Seal products are used. Physicians, hospitals and other users of our products, including our products under development such as our ECM and cartilage repair products, may fail to obtain sufficient reimbursement from 23 Table of Contents healthcare payers for procedures in which our products are used, or are expected to be used, or adverse changes may occur in governmental and private third-party payers’ policies toward reimbursement for these procedures. For example, the decision by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) not to reimburse for treatment of asymptomatic patients suffering from carotid artery disease was a major factor in our fiscal 2007 decision not to continue to commercialize our embolic protection product line. Further, there have been, and continue to be, proposals by legislators, regulators and third-party payors to keep healthcare costs down. Certain proposals, if passed, would impose limitations on the prices we will be able to charge for our products, or the amounts of reimbursement available for our products from governmental agencies or third-party payors. These limitations, and other changes to reimbursement policy, could harm our business. The adoption of healthcare reform in the United States may adversely affect our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, being commonly referred to as, healthcare reform, and referred to below as, the Act), were enacted into law in the United States. The Act, which will effect major changes to the U.S. healthcare system, includes provisions that, among other things, will reduce and/or limit Medicare reimbursement, require all individuals to have health insurance (with limited exceptions) and impose new and/or increased taxes. Specifically, the Act will require the medical device industry to subsidize healthcare reform in the form of a 2.3% excise tax on U.S. sales of most medical devices beginning in 2013. Under our current business model, we sell substantially all of our products through strategic partners; as a result, we are still evaluating the impact, if any, of this tax on our overall business. At a minimum, this excise tax will be an additional cost incurred by our customers. Various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level. The Act and these proposals, if passed into law, could reduce medical procedure volumes and impact the demand for our products or the prices at which we or our customers can sell our products. In addition, the excise tax may increase our cost of doing business. While we believe the Act may have the impact on our business as described above, it is too early to understand and predict the full impact of the Act on our business, as many of the details of the Act will be included in new and revised regulations, which have not yet been promulgated, and require additional guidance and specificity to be provided by the Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of Labor and the Department of Treasury. Our products and manufacturing activities are subject to extensive governmental regulation that could make it more expensive and time consuming for us to introduce new and improved products or cause us to withdraw products from certain markets. Our products and manufacturing activities are subject to extensive regulation by a number of governmental agencies, including the FDA and comparable international agencies. We are required to: • obtain the approval of the FDA and international agencies before we can market and sell new products; • satisfy these agencies’ requirements for all of our labeling, sales and promotional materials in connection with our existing products; • comply with all applicable design and manufacturing regulations; and • undergo rigorous inspections by these agencies. Compliance with the regulations of these agencies may delay or prevent us from introducing any new or improved products. Furthermore, we may be subject to sanctions, including temporary or permanent suspension of operations, product recalls and marketing restrictions if we fail to comply with the laws and regulations pertaining to our business. The FDA clearance and approval processes for a medical device, particularly for a device subject to PMA, can be expensive, uncertain and lengthy. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain necessary regulatory 24 Table of Contents clearances or approvals for any product on a timely basis or at all. As an example, our cartilage repair device is subject to the PMA process. As with other medical devices subject to this rigorous process, our efforts to obtain FDA approval will be time consuming and expensive. The FDA ultimately may deny our PMA application for this device, and/or may require additional clinical trials, which could delay the PMA approval process by several years. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials and manufacturing and marketing of our products internationally vary from country to country. Foreign approvals may take longer to obtain than FDA approvals and can require, among other things, additional testing and different clinical trial designs. If we fail to comply with these regulatory requirements or obtain and maintain required approvals in any foreign country, we will not be able to sell our products (or our partners will not be able to sell their products which incorporate our devices) in that country. We are also required to demonstrate compliance with the FDA’s Quality System Regulations. The FDA enforces its Quality System Regulations through pre-approval and periodic post-approval inspections. These regulations relate to product testing, vendor qualification, manufacturing control, design control and quality assurance, as well as the maintenance of records and documentation. If we are found to be out of compliance with FDA regulations, it could be costly and difficult for us to correct the non-compliances and could seriously harm our business. The FDA and international regulatory agencies may also limit the indications for which our products are promoted. These regulatory agencies may restrict or withdraw approvals if information becomes available to support this action, which could include actions based on sourcing of animal derived tissue. In addition, regulations regarding the development, manufacture and sale of medical devices are subject to future change, including the adoption of more rigorous regulation. We cannot predict what impact, if any, those changes might have on our business, the businesses of our strategic partners, or the businesses of our competitors. The adoption of reform to the FDA’s 510(k) process, as proposed by the FDA in its recently released preliminary recommendations, may adversely affect our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. Our products are generally subject to the FDA’s 510(k) approval requirements, among other governmental regulations. In August 2010, the FDA issued its preliminary recommendations on reform of the 510(k) process for premarket approval of medical devices. The FDA’s preliminary recommendations include, among other things, granting to the FDA of authority to rescind 510(k) clearance, revising existing guidance to clarify what types of modifications to existing 510(k) cleared devices warrant submission of a new 510(k), exploring the possibility of potentially requiring manufacturers to provide periodic updates to the FDA’s Center for Devices and Radiological Health listing modifications without submitting a new 510(k), adopting a framework for 510(k) submissions that requires formal validation of claims with supporting evidence and developing guidance requiring that the complete device description and intended use information be submitted and described in detail in a single section of a 510(k). While the FDA has indicated that these recommendations are preliminary in nature, if implemented, these recommendations could have the effect of making it more difficult and expensive for us, and other companies, to obtain 510(k) clearance and potentially jeopardizing the regulatory status of certain 510(k) cleared devices. It is too early to understand and predict the full impact that any modifications to the FDA’s 510(k) process may have on our business, as the FDA has emphasized that these recommendations are only preliminary in nature, and the FDA will solicit and evaluate public comments on these recommendations. 25 Table of Contents Risks Related To Our Securities The trading price of our Common Stock is likely to fluctuate substantially in the future. The trading price of our Common Stock may fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, some of which are not in our control, including: • changes in our own forecasts or earnings estimates by analysts; • our customers and licensees’ ability to meet or exceed the forecasts or expectations of analysts or investors; • our ability to meet or exceed our own forecasts or expectations of analysts or investors; • quarter-to-quarter variations in our operating results; • announcements regarding clinical activities or new products by us or our competitors; • general conditions in the medical device industry; • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market, which have particularly affected the market prices of many medical device companies; • our stock repurchase programs; and • general economic conditions. In addition, the market for our stock has experienced, and may continue to experience, price and volume fluctuations unrelated or disproportionate to our operating performance. As a result, our stockholders may not be able to sell shares of our Common Stock at or above the price at which they purchase them. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. If any securities litigation is initiated against us, with or without merit, we could incur substantial costs, and our management’s attention and resources could be diverted from our business. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation, third amended and restated bylaws, stockholders rights plan and Delaware law may discourage an attempt to acquire our Company. Provisions of our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation, third amended and restated bylaws, stockholders rights plan and Delaware law may render more difficult or discourage any attempt to acquire our Company, even if such acquisition may be favorable to the interests of our stockholders, discourage bids for our Common Stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. In particular, our stockholders rights plan, adopted in June 2009, may cause substantial dilution to any person or group that attempts to acquire us without the approval of our Board of Directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 