ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Our business has contracted significantly. Due primarily to our limited funds, during the past two years we have reduced substantially our expenditures on product development and sold the intellectual property related to some game franchises that have generated substantial revenues for us in the past. This has materially reduced our revenues. Because of the reduction in available product, as well as unusually difficult market conditions, in fiscal 2007, our net revenues were only $122.3 million compared with net revenues of $206.8 million in the prior year and $343.8 million in the year before that. Because of this decrease in revenues, among other things including a $54.1 million charge for impairment of goodwill in fiscal 2007, we have had significant operating losses over the past several years. Further, we have substantially fewer titles available for release in fiscal 2008 than has historically been the case. We need to raise additional funds. In recent years, our losses have been substantial. We currently have a credit facility that is limited to $15.0 million and, given our decrease in product sales, is further limited by a borrowing availability that ties to outstanding accounts receivable. Based on current assessments, we will need to raise funds in order to support our calendar 2007 holiday season cash needs and our on-going product development efforts and other operational needs. In order to complete a redirection of our product portfolio and to increase our slate of titles in fiscal 2008 and 2009, we will need to make a significant investment in product development. This investment is critical in order to maintain and grow our business, keep current with changing technology (including new hardware platforms), attract premier development partners, and secure profitable intellectual properties. We may raise funds in any number of ways, including through the issuance of debt or equity, or through other financing. If we borrow funds, we likely will be obligated to make periodic interest or other debt service payments, and the terms of this debt may impose burdensome restrictions on our ability to operate our business. If we seek financing through the sale of equity securities, our current stockholders will suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of common stock. Additionally, due to the relative size of Atari, our majority ownership by a financially challenged foreign entity and our history of significant losses, we are not certain as to our ability to raise additional funds in the future or under what terms funds would be available. If we are not successful in raising funds, we will have to take various actions that may include, but not be limited to, a reduction in our expenditures for internal and external new product development, further reduction in overhead expenses, and further sales of intellectual property. These actions, 13 Table of Contents should they become necessary, will probably result in further reduction in our size of operations. Such fund raising needs are being discussed with our majority stockholder, among others, with respect to appropriate timing, structure, and amount of such funding. Our revenues will decline and our competitive position will be adversely affected if we are unable to introduce successful new products on a timely basis. Our performance in the video game software publishing business depends on the timely introduction of successful new products, sequels or enhancements of existing products to replace declining revenues from older products. Our inability to introduce compelling new products, sequels or enhancements, or significant delays in their release, have materially and adversely affected the ultimate success of our products and, in turn, our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our product development activities over the last fiscal year and in the coming fiscal year have been and will be less robust than our historical product development, resulting in fewer product releases. This increases the adverse effects we suffer if particular products we release are not successful. The process of introducing new products, sequels or product enhancements is extremely complex, time consuming and expensive. Competitive factors in our industry demand that we create increasingly sophisticated products, which in turn makes it difficult to produce and release compelling products on a predictable schedule. Our rights to use the “Atari” name are limited. The “Atari” name has been an important part of our branding strategy, and we believe it provides us with an important competitive advantage in dealing with video game developers and in distributing our products. However, the “Atari” name is owned by a subsidiary of IESA, which has licensed us to use the name with regard to video games in the United States, Canada, and Mexico until 2013. Therefore, we are limited both in how we can exploit the “Atari” name and how long we will be able to use it. We have no agreements or understandings that assure us that we will be able to expand the purposes for which we can use the “Atari” name or extend the period during which we will be able to use it. Lack of funds and limits on our license rights may limit our ability to expand into new business activities. Our management has been developing a strategic plan that would expand our activities into new, emerging aspects of the video game industry, including casual games, online sites, and digital downloading. In addition, they are considering having us try to license the “Atari” name for use in products other than video games. These activities would be used to replace some of the revenues we lost as we reduced our conventional video game development and publishing activities. However, our ability to do those things will require that we have a source of funding and some of them will require expansion and extension of our rights to use the “Atari” name. We do not have a source even of the funds we expect to need for our current operations, and we have no agreements or understandings regarding expansion or extension of licenses. Therefore, even if our Board were to approve a strategic plan that contemplates our expanding our activities into new areas (whether or not those currently contemplated by our management), there is a significant possibility we would not be able to implement that strategic plan. The loss of Wal-Mart, GameStop, Target, or Best Buy as key customers could negatively affect our business. Our sales to Wal-Mart, GameStop, Target, and Best Buy accounted for approximately 25.1%, 19.2%, 10.3%, and 9.3%, respectively, of net revenues (excluding international royalty, licensing, and other income) for the year ended March 31, 2007. Our net accounts receivable from these retailers were approximately $0.2 million, $2.2 million, $0.2 million, and $1.3 million, respectively, as of March 31, 2007. Our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected if: • we lost any of these retailers as a customer; • any of these retailers purchased significantly fewer products from us; • we were unable to collect receivables from any of these retailers on a timely basis or at all; or • we experienced any other adverse change in our relationship with any of these retailers. 14 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that Wal-Mart, GameStop, Target, and Best Buy will continue to use us as a major supplier of video game software, or at all. We have experienced difficulties in collecting on certain accounts. We cannot guarantee that we will not continue to have such difficulties and, while we maintain a reserve for uncollectible receivables, the reserve may not be sufficient. Our results of operations and competitive position may be adversely affected if we are unable to anticipate and adapt to rapidly changing technology, including new console technology. The video game software industry is characterized by rapidly changing technology. The introduction of new technologies can render our previously released products obsolete or unmarketable. Therefore, we must continually anticipate the emergence of, and adapt our products to, new technologies and systems. When we choose to publish or develop a product for a new system, we may need to make a substantial development investment one or two years in advance of when we actually ship products for that system. If we develop products for a new system that is ultimately unpopular, we may not be able to recoup our investment as quickly as anticipated, or at all. Conversely, if we choose not to publish products for a new system that is ultimately popular, our competitive position may be adversely affected. We may be unable to develop and publish new products if we are unable to secure or maintain relationships with leading independent video game software developers. As we have discontinued our internal development operations in fiscal 2007, we are even more dependent than in prior years upon leading independent software developers. Consequently, our success depends on our continued ability to obtain or renew product development agreements with leading independent video game software developers. Particularly in view of our financial situation, we may not be able to obtain or renew product development agreements on favorable terms, or at all, including obtaining the rights to sequels of successful products which were originally developed for us by leading independent video game software developers. Many of our competitors have greater financial resources and access to capital than we do, which puts us at a competitive disadvantage when bidding to attract leading independent video game software developers to enter into publishing agreements with us. Among other things, we are severely limited in our ability to pay advance royalties or otherwise provide pre-development financing to developers. Also, many leading independent video game software developers are small companies with a few key individuals without whom a project may be difficult or impossible to complete. Consequently, we are exposed to the risk that these developers will go out of business before completing a project, or simply cease work on a project for which we have hired them. If we are unable to maintain or acquire licenses to intellectual property, our operating results will be adversely impacted. Many of our products are based on or incorporate intellectual property owned by others. For example, some of our titles are based on key television and film licenses. We expect that many of the products we publish in the future will also be based on intellectual property owned by others. The rights we enjoy to licensed intellectual property may vary based on the agreement we have with the licensor. Competition for these licenses is intense and many of our competitors have greater resources to take advantage of opportunities for such licenses. If we are unable to maintain our current licenses and obtain additional licenses with significant commercial value, our sales will decline. In addition, obtaining licenses for popular franchises owned by others could require us to expend significant resources and the licenses may require us to pay relatively high royalty rates. If titles exploiting particular licenses are ultimately unpopular, we may not recoup investments we make to obtain such licenses. Furthermore, in many instances we do not have exclusive licenses for intellectual property owned by others. In these cases, we may face direct competition from other publishers holding similar licenses. Termination or modification of our agreements with hardware manufacturers will adversely affect our business. We are required to obtain a license to develop and distribute software for each of the video game consoles. We currently have licenses from Sony to develop products for PlayStation 2 and PSP, from Nintendo to develop products for Game Boy Advance, GameCube, and DS and from Microsoft to develop products for Xbox and Xbox 360. We are currently negotiating licenses for Nintendo Wii and Sony PlayStation 3. These licenses are non-exclusive, and as a result, many of our competitors also have licenses to develop and distribute video game software for these systems. These licenses must be periodically renewed, and if they are not, or if any of our licenses are terminated or adversely modified, we may not be able to publish games for the applicable platforms or we may be required to do so on less attractive terms. In addition, our contracts with these manufacturers often grant them approval rights over new products and control over the manufacturing of our products. In some circumstances, this could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition by: 15 Table of Contents • terminating a project for which we have expended significant resources; • leaving us unable to have our products manufactured and shipped to customers; • increasing manufacturing lead times and expense to us over the lead times and costs we could achieve if we were able to manufacture our products independently; • delaying the manufacture and, in turn, the shipment of products; and • requiring us to take significant risks in prepaying for and holding an inventory of products. 16 Table of Contents The loss of our senior management and skilled personnel could negatively affect our business. Our future success will depend to a significant degree upon the performance and contribution of our senior management team and upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified employees with technical, management, marketing, sales, product development, creative and other skills. In the video game software industry, competition for highly skilled and creative employees is intense and costly. We expect this competition to continue for the foreseeable future, and we may experience increased costs in order to attract and retain skilled employees. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining skilled personnel. Our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected if we lost the services of senior management or key technical or creative employees or if we failed to attract additional highly qualified employees. This has become increasingly difficult, as we have reduced our workforce twice in the last eighteen months. If returns and other concessions given to our customers exceed our reserves, our business may be negatively affected. To cover returns and other concessions, we establish reserves at the time we ship our products. We estimate the potential for future returns and other concessions based on, among other factors, management’s evaluation of historical experience, market acceptance of products produced, retailer inventory levels, budgeted customer allowances, the nature of the title and existing commitments to customers. While we are able to recover the majority of our costs when third-party products we distribute are returned, we bear the full financial risk when our own products are returned. In addition, the license fees we pay Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo are non-refundable and we cannot recover these fees when our products are returned. Although we believe we maintain adequate reserves with respect to product returns and other concessions, we cannot be certain that actual returns and other concessions will not exceed our reserves, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Significant competition in our industry could adversely affect our business. The video game software market is highly competitive and relatively few products achieve significant market acceptance. Currently, we compete primarily with other publishers of video game software for both video game consoles and PCs. Our competitors include Activision, Inc., Electronic Arts, Inc., Midway Games, Inc., Take Two Interactive, Inc., THQ, Inc., Sega Corporation, Ubisoft Entertainment, SA, and Vivendi SA, among others. Most of these companies are substantially larger and have better access to funds than us. In addition, console manufacturers including Microsoft, Nintendo, and Sony publish products for their respective platforms. Media companies and film studios, such as Warner Bros., are increasing their focus on the video game software market and may become significant competitors and/or may increase the price of their outbound licenses. Current and future competitors may also gain access to wider distribution channels than we do. As a result, these current and future competitors may be able to: • respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer preferences; • carry larger inventories than we do; • undertake more extensive marketing campaigns than we do; • adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can; and • make higher offers or guarantees to software developers and licensors than we can. We may not have the resources required for us to respond effectively to market or technological changes or to compete successfully with current and future competitors. Increased competition may also result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Retailers of our products typically have a limited amount of shelf space and promotional resources. Therefore, there is increased competition amongst the publishers to deliver a high quality product that merits retail acceptance. To the extent that the number of products and platforms increases, competition for shelf space may intensify and may require us to increase our marketing expenditures. Due to increased competition for limited shelf space, retailers are in a strong position to 17 Table of Contents negotiate favorable terms of sale, including price discounts, price protection, marketing and display fees and product return policies. We cannot be certain that retailers will continue to purchase our products or to provide our products with adequate levels of shelf space and promotional support on acceptable terms. A prolonged failure in this regard may significantly harm our business and financial results. If our distribution arrangements with IESA are adversely modified or terminated, we may lose revenue or incur disruption in the distribution of our products. Pursuant to agreements we have in place with IESA, we distribute products on their behalf in the United States, Canada, and Mexico, and IESA distributes products on our behalf in Europe, Asia and certain other regions throughout the world. If these agreements, or product licenses to which IESA is a party, are terminated or amended in a manner adverse to us, we may, as applicable: • obtain new distribution arrangements for our products which may be on less favorable terms; • lose revenue from the distribution of IESA’s products; • experience difficulties or other delays in the distribution of our products outside the United States, Canada, and Mexico; • incur an increase in the cost of distributing our products outside the United States, Canada, and Mexico; or • incur problems with retailers to whom we distribute IESA’s products or to whom IESA distributes our products. Revenues from our distribution business may decline as competition increases and Internet technology improves. During the years ended March 31, 2006 and March 31, 2007, net revenues from our distribution business were approximately 25.7% and 14.4%, respectively, of our total net revenues. Our distribution revenues as a percentage of net revenues is driven by the mix between publishing and distribution sales. Over the past three years our funding constraints have reduced our publishing and distribution activities, causing shifts in this mix. Revenues from our distribution business may decline if the products which we distribute for IESA are reduced or products we distribute for third-party developers become unavailable to us. As part of our distribution business, we earn revenues by distributing to retailers our own products and products of others, including products published by IESA and by our competitors. We cannot assure you that IESA will not reduce the rate at which it develops or obtains rights with regard to video games or that our competitors will continue to provide us with their products for distribution to our mass merchant customers. Our inability to obtain software titles developed or published by IESA or by our competitors, coupled with our inability to obtain these titles from other distributors, could have a material adverse effect on our relationships with retailers and our ability to obtain shelf space for our own products, as well as reducing the revenues that we earn from our distribution activities. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may face increased competition and downward price pressure if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights. Our business is heavily dependent upon our confidential and proprietary intellectual property. We sell a significant portion of our published software under licenses from independent software developers, and, in these cases, we do not acquire the copyrights for the underlying work. We rely primarily on a combination of confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements, patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as other proprietary rights laws and legal methods, to protect our proprietary rights and the intellectual property rights of our developers. However, current U.S. and international laws afford us only limited protection and amendments to such laws or newly enacted laws may weaken existing protections. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy our products or franchises, or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Software piracy is also a persistent problem in the video game software industry. Policing unauthorized use of our products is extremely difficult because video game software can be easily duplicated and disseminated. Furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as U.S. law. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if a 18 Table of Contents significant amount of unauthorized copying of our products were to occur or if other parties develop products substantially similar to our products. We cannot assure you that our attempts to protect our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop similar or competitive products. We may face intellectual property infringement claims which would be costly to resolve. As the number of available video game software products increases, and their functionality overlaps, software developers and publishers may increasingly become subject to infringement claims. We are not aware that any of our products infringe on the proprietary rights of third parties. However, we cannot provide any assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us in the future with respect to past, current or future products. There has been substantial litigation in the industry regarding copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights. We have sometimes initiated litigation to assert our intellectual property rights. Whether brought by or against us, these claims can be time consuming, result in costly litigation and divert management’s attention from our day-to-day operations, which can have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may be burdened with payment defaults and uncollectible accounts if our customers do not or cannot satisfy their payment obligations. Distributors and retailers in the video game software industry have, from time to time, experienced significant fluctuations in their businesses, and a number of them have become insolvent. The insolvency or business failure of any significant retailer or distributor of our products could materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We typically make sales to most of our retailers and some distributors on unsecured credit, with terms that vary depending upon the customer’s credit history, solvency, credit limits and sales history. In addition, while we maintain a reserve for uncollectible receivables, the reserve may not be sufficient in every circumstance. As a result, a payment default by a significant customer could significantly harm our business and results of operations. Our software is subject to governmental restrictions or rating systems. Legislation is periodically introduced at the local, state and federal levels in the United States and in foreign countries to establish systems for providing consumers with information about graphic violence and sexually explicit material contained in video game software. In addition, many foreign countries have laws that permit governmental entities to censor the content and advertising of video game software. We believe that mandatory government-run rating systems may eventually be adopted in many countries that are potential markets for our products. We may be required to modify our products or alter our marketing strategies to comply with new regulations, which could increase development costs and delay the release of our products in those countries. Due to the uncertainties regarding such rating systems, confusion in the marketplace may occur, and we are unable to predict what effect, if any, such rating systems would have on our business. In addition to such regulations, certain retailers have in the past declined to stock some of our and our competitors’ video game products because they believed that the content of the packaging artwork or the products would be offensive to the retailer’s customer base. Although to date these actions have not impacted our business, we cannot assure you that similar actions by our distributors or retailers in the future would not cause material harm to our business. We may become subject to litigation which could be expensive or disruptive. Similar to our competitors in the video game software industry, we have been and will likely become subject to litigation. Such litigation may be costly and time consuming and may divert management’s attention from our day-to-day operations. In addition, we cannot assure you that such litigation will be ultimately resolved in our favor or that an adverse outcome will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. RISKS RELATED TO OUR CORPORATE STRUCTURE AND FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS Our performance may be affected by IESA’s performance and financial stability. Historically, IESA has incurred significant continuing operating losses and has been highly leveraged. On September 12, 2006, IESA announced a multi-step debt restructuring plan, subject to its shareholders’ approval, which would significantly reduce its debt and provide liquidity to meet its operating needs. On November 15, 2006, IESA shareholders approved the debt 19 Table of Contents restructuring plan, permitting IESA to execute on this plan. As of the date of this report, IESA has raised approximately 74 million Euros, of which approximately 45 million Euros has paid down outstanding short-term and long-term debt and has provided approximately 20 million Euro of liquidity for working capital needs. As of the date of this report, IESA has completed its debt restructuring plan; however, its current ability to fund, among other things, its subsidiaries’ operations remains limited. Our results of operations could be materially impaired if IESA fails to fund Atari Interactive, as any delay or cessation in product development could materially decrease our revenue from the distribution of Atari Interactive and IESA products. If the above contingencies occurred, we probably would be forced to take actions that could result in a significant reduction in the size of our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and cash flows IESA distributes our products in Europe, Asia, and certain other regions, and pays us royalties in this respect. IESA also develops (through its subsidiaries) products which we distribute in the U.S., Canada, and Mexico and for which we pay royalties to IESA. Both IESA and Atari Interactive are material sources of products which we market in the United States, Canada, and Mexico. During fiscal 2007, international royalties earned from IESA were the source of 4% of our net revenues. Additionally, IESA and its subsidiaries (primarily Atari Interactive) were the source of approximately 38% of our net publishing product revenue for the year ended March 31, 2007. Additionally, although we are a separate and independent legal entity and we are not a party to, or a guarantor of, and have no obligations or liability in respect of IESA’s indebtedness (except that we have guaranteed the Beverly, MA lease obligation of Atari Interactive), because IESA owns the majority of our common stock, potential investors and current and potential business/trade partners may view IESA’s financial situation as relevant to an assessment of Atari. Therefore, if IESA has negative financial results, it may taint our relationship with our suppliers and distributors, damage our business reputation, affect our ability to generate business and enter into agreements on financially favorable terms, and otherwise impair our ability to raise and generate capital. IESA controls us and could prevent a transaction favorable to our other stockholders. IESA beneficially owns approximately 51% of our common stock, which gives it sufficient voting power to prevent any transaction that it finds unfavorable, including an acquisition, consolidation or sale of shares or assets that might be desirable to our other stockholders. Additionally, IESA could unilaterally approve certain transactions as a result of its majority position. IESA also has sufficient voting power to elect all of the members of our Board of Directors. Currently, three of the eight members of our Board of Directors are directors, employees or former employees (within three years) of IESA or its affiliates. This concentration of control could be disadvantageous to other stockholders whose interests differ from those of IESA. Our affiliates retain considerable control over the Atari trademarks, and their oversight or exploitation of such trademarks could affect our business. Atari Interactive, a wholly owned subsidiary of IESA, has granted us the right to use the Atari name for software video games in the United States, Canada and Mexico until 2013. However, in addition to an initial upfront payment we made in 2003, we must pay a royalty equal to 1% of our net revenues during each of 2009 through 2013. We are subject to quality control oversight for our use of the Atari name. Any disputes over our performance under the trademark license agreement could materially affect our business. Furthermore, the use of the Atari mark by Atari Interactive or other subsidiaries of IESA could affect the reputation or value associated with the Atari mark, and therefore materially affect our business. Our restructuring efforts will create short term costs that may not be offset by increased efficiencies. We are incurring substantial costs in connection with our restructuring efforts, including severance obligations, advisor fees, and lease obligations for unused property. Though we anticipate that the restructuring will ultimately result in reduced general and administrative expenses and more efficient corporate operations, we can give no assurance that we will be successful in redefining our cost and operational structures in the near term. If we are not successful, we may not see cost savings that justify these measures, which may negatively impact our results of operations. Our credit facility could be terminated. Since November 2006, we have utilized the proceeds of our credit facility with Guggenheim to fund our working capital needs, including the manufacturing and development of products. The credit documents which we entered into with Guggenheim to obtain this credit facility contain numerous covenants and conditions which may cause a default upon breach 20 Table of Contents thereof by us. For the quarter ended March 31, 2007, we were not in compliance with certain financial covenants required by the credit facility; however, in May 2007, we received a waiver of the covenants effective March 31, 2007. There can be no assurance that we will be in compliance in future periods. If an event of default occurs under any credit document and Guggenheim opts not to waive such default, the credit facility may be terminated and any debt outstanding accelerated, in which case we will need to raise additional funds or seek other alternatives, many of which may adversely affect our stock price. Further, the credit facility may be terminated if we do not comply with financial and other covenants prior to our need for borrowing in the third quarter of fiscal 2008 (i.e. Nasdaq Delisting). RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK The price of our common stock is very low. At September 10, 2007, the last reported sale price of our common stock was $2.60 per share. This represents a sharp decline from the price at which it traded one, two, and three years earlier (adjusted for a one-for-ten reverse stock split in 2007). Because of that, a sale of stock, convertible debt, or other forms of stock-based securities in order to raise even a relatively moderate amount of funds would significantly dilute the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders. IESA is in a position to prevent us from selling stock. It is likely that anyone who purchases from us a significant amount of our common stock will insist on receiving a discount even from the current very low market price of the stock. Under the rules of the NASDAQ Global Market, a sale of 20% or more of our stock for less than its market price (or its book value) must be approved by our stockholders. Because IESA owns a majority of our common stock, we will not be able to obtain stockholder approval of a sale of 20% or more of our common stock if IESA opposes it. IESA has historically desired to maintain its ownership of a majority of our outstanding stock. Because IESA currently owns only a little more than 50% of our common stock, unless IESA changes that position, we will not be able to sell stock or securities that are convertible into our common stock unless we simultaneously sell shares to IESA or otherwise enter into a transaction in which we issue shares to IESA. AVAILABLE INFORMATION We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Our SEC filings, including our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act, are available to the public free of charge over the Internet at our website at http://www.atari.com or at the SEC’s web site at http://www.sec.gov. Our SEC filings will be available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we have electronically filed or furnished them to the SEC. You may also read and copy any document we file at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 