ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks, uncertainties and other factors described below, in addition to the other information set forth in this report, because they could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition, cash flows and prospects as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our Common Stock. Risks Related to Our Business We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from the Angio-Seal device, which is manufactured, marketed and distributed by St. Jude Medical. In June 2010, we have entered into a new component supply agreement with St. Jude Medical, under which their component purchase commitments are reduced. A termination of, or other adverse change in, our relationship with St. Jude Medical could have a material adverse impact on our business. Under our license agreements with St. Jude Medical, the Angio-Seal device is manufactured, marketed and sold on a worldwide basis by St. Jude Medical. Two of our significant sources of revenue are the sale of components to St. Jude Medical for incorporation into the Angio-Seal device, and royalty income from the sale of the Angio-Seal device by St. Jude Medical to the end-user market. The amount of revenue we receive from the Angio-Seal device depends, in part, on the time, effort and attention that St. Jude Medical devotes to it, and on their success in manufacturing, marketing and selling the device worldwide. For fiscal 2011, royalty income from, and sales of components to, St. Jude Medical represented approximately 44% of our total revenue. Under the terms of our licenses with St. Jude Medical, we have no control over the pricing and marketing strategy for the Angio-Seal product line. In addition, we depend on St. Jude Medical to successfully maintain levels of manufacturing sufficient to meet anticipated demand, abide by applicable manufacturing regulations and seek reimbursement approvals. Royalty income under our license agreements with St. Jude Medical will end upon the earlier of (1) the termination of the license agreements, which may be terminated by St. Jude Medical for any reason upon 12 months notice, or (2) the expiration of the last claim of any of the licensed patents. St. Jude Medical may not adequately perform its manufacturing, marketing and selling duties. Any such failure by St. Jude Medical may negatively impact Angio-Seal unit sales and, therefore, reduce our royalties. Pursuant to the prior component supply agreement with St. Jude Medical, which expired in December 2010, we manufactured two of the key resorbable components of the Angio-Seal device for St. Jude Medical; 100% of their requirements for the collagen plug and at least 30% of their requirements for the polymer anchors. In June 2010, we entered into a new two-year supply agreement with St. Jude Medical effective for the period from January 1, 2011 to December 31, 2012. Under this new supply agreement, we are the exclusive outside supplier of collagen plugs to St. Jude Medical. The new supply agreement provides for contractual minimum order levels of collagen plugs for calendar years of 2011 and 2012. During the Company’s third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2011, St. Jude Medical had fulfilled their calendar 2011 contractual minimum of $4.0 million under the new supply agreement. We do not expect any additional orders for calendar year 2011 shipment. In June 2011, St. Jude Medical placed its calendar 2012 order for $6.4 million of collagen plugs, of which $4.0 million are to be shipped in the second half of fiscal year 2012 and $2.4 million are to be shipped in the first half of fiscal 2013. St. Jude Medical may, but is not contractually bound to order any additional collagen plugs in calendar year 2012. In August 2008, St. Jude Medical acquired certain assets of Datascope Corporation providing St. Jude Medical with a potential alternative source for the collagen component that could reduce or eliminate the future sales of collagen supplied by us to St. Jude Medical. In February 2010, St. Jude Medical announced that they had received U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval as an alternative supplier for the collagen plug, and that they would be in a position to serve as a supplier of the collagen plug by December 2010. As a result, if St. Jude Medical is able to, and does in fact, rely on its internal manufacturing to fulfill requirements for collagen plugs for the Angio-Seal device, it may not, for calendar 2012, purchase in excess of the $6.4 million in collagen plugs that it has already ordered, and may not purchase any collagen plugs from us after calendar 2012. Royalties under the Angio-Seal license agreements between St. Jude Medical and us are not affected by the current supply agreement. 19 Table of Contents We derive a substantial majority of our revenues from only four customers. A substantial majority of our total revenues are derived from only four customers. For fiscal 2011, in addition to the approximate 44% of our total revenue derived from royalty income from and sales of components to St. Jude Medical, royalty income from and sales of biomaterials products to Orthovita (which was recently acquired by Stryker) represented approximately 19% of our total revenue, sales of biomaterials products to Arthrex represented approximately 16% of our total revenues and royalty income from and sales of biomaterials products to Synthes represented approximately 7% of our total revenue. We expect that total revenues from product sales to Synthes will substantially increase in future fiscal periods, primarily due to our sales of the Norian products to Synthes. On April 27, 2011, Johnson & Johnson and Synthes announced their entry into a definitive agreement, whereby Johnson & Johnson is to acquire Synthes, which this transaction is anticipated to close during the first half of 2012. Our business and operating results could suffer if the acquisition is consummated and the combined company diverts its focus and attention, and in particular, sales and marketing efforts, or shifts its business strategy, away from our ECM and Norian products. In June 2011, Stryker signed a definitive agreement to acquire Orthovita. Our business and operating results could similarly suffer if Orthovita, following its acquisition by Stryker, diverts resources, and in particular sales and marketing efforts, or shifts its business strategy, away from our co-developed bone void filler products, branded VitossTM Foam and VitossTM Bioactive Foam technology. It is not possible for us to predict the future level of demand for our products that will be generated by these customers or the future demand for the products in the end-user marketplace. Our customer concentration exposes us to the risk of changes in the business condition of any of our major customers and to the risk that the loss of a major customer would materially adversely affect our results of operations. Our relationship with these customers is subject to change. If our biomaterials products are not successful, our operating results and business may be substantially impaired. The success of our existing and future biomaterials products depends on a number of factors, including our ability to manufacture, sell and competitively price these products and the acceptance of these products by the medical community. We cannot predict how quickly, if at all, the medical community will accept our future products, or the extent to which our future products will be used. In addition, regulatory approvals will be required before biomaterials products in development can be sold. The bovine materials we use in some of our products are not always accepted for use in medical devices in all international markets. If we encounter difficulties introducing future products into our targeted markets, our operating results and business may be substantially impaired. In addition, new technologies and techniques may be developed which may render obsolete our current products, along with those under development. We will require substantial additional funds to develop and market our biomaterials products. We expect to fund the growth of our biomaterials business from cash flows from operations and cash and investments on-hand, but this operating income may not be sufficient to develop new biomaterials products. We rely on strategic partners or customers to market and sell our biomaterials products. We will need to continue to attract third parties, and retain our relationships with our current partners, to distribute our products to the end-user market. We depend on our customers to market and, in some cases, obtain regulatory approvals for products that include our biomaterials components. We depend on the efforts of our biomaterials customers in marketing their products that include our biomaterials components. There can be no assurance that our customers’ end-use products that include our biomaterials components will be commercialized successfully by our customers or that our customers will otherwise be able to compete effectively in their markets. While we take steps toward obtaining regulatory approval under certain of our partnerships and for some of our customers, in other cases, we rely on others to do these activities independently. There can be no assurance that our partners or customers will be successful in obtaining such regulatory approvals. 20 Table of Contents The markets for our products are highly competitive and are likely to become more competitive, and our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. The markets for our current and proposed products are fragmented, intensely competitive, subject to rapid change and sensitive to new product introductions and enhancements. We expect that the competitive environment for our products will become more intense as additional companies enter our markets, and as new techniques and technologies are adopted. Our biomaterials and medical devices compete directly and indirectly with a range of products and technologies produced by a wide variety of companies, as well as other processes and procedures which do not require the use of our products or those of our competitors. The bovine materials we use in some of our products are not always accepted for use in medical devices in all international markets. Many of our existing competitors, as well as a number of potential new competitors, have longer operating histories in these markets, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and greater financial, technical and marketing resources. Our biomaterials products, including products under development, compete with the products of many companies in the industry, including some of the largest. In the vascular sealing device market, our products compete with products sold by Abbott Laboratories and Access Closure, Inc., along with other competitors and potential new entrants. The majority of vascular sealing is performed through manual compression, which represents our primary competition. Furthermore, there are alternative methods of diagnosis and treatments, such as cardiac catheterization procedures performed from other access sites, such as the radial artery, that are becoming more prevalent. These catheterization procedures through alternative access sites have adversely impacted the market use of vascular puncture closure devices designed for femoral artery puncture closure and could continue to do so. The ECM products we are developing compete with human and animal-derived products from such companies as Kinetic Concepts, Johnson & Johnson, Covidien, C.R. Bard Medical, Cook Medical, Wright Medical, and several other private and public companies that offer biologic scaffolds and meshes. Our cartilage repair development program competes with existing surgical procedures, such as microfracture, osteoarticular transfer system and allograft procedures. Currently in the U.S., there are no approved competitive implantable products to address focal articular cartilage defects. We believe there is only one U.S. approved cartilage repair product which is commercialized by Genzyme, which is a cell-based product that requires two surgeries and indicated to be used only after a failed microfracture procedure. We anticipate additional competition from several other companies that have cartilage products under various stages of development. Our competitors may have broader product lines, which allow them to negotiate exclusive, long-term supply contracts and offer comprehensive pricing for their products. Broader product lines may also provide our competitors with a significant advantage in marketing competing products to group purchasing organizations and other managed care organizations that are increasingly seeking to reduce costs through centralized purchasing. Greater financial resources and product development capabilities may allow our competitors to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements that may render our products obsolete. Competition faced by our customers could also have an adverse effect on our business for a variety of reasons, including that our customers may compete directly with larger, dominant manufacturers with extensive product lines and greater sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. We are also unable to control other factors that may impact the commercialization of our components for end use products, such as marketing and sales efforts and competitive pricing pressures within particular markets. Spectranetics is exclusively responsible for worldwide sales and marketing of the endovascular product line. If any or all of these products fail to gain market acceptance or if Spectranetics fails to successfully commercialize them, our business may suffer. The QuickCat and ThromCat endovascular products, which are sold and marketed exclusively by Spectranetics, have limited product and brand recognition, and limited usage to date. Although we do not know if these 21 Table of Contents products will be successful over the long term, or if they will be adopted by the physician community at rates that in turn generate enough revenue for us to sustain our ongoing investment in this business, we are required by contract to continue such investment. Market acceptance of these products may be hindered if physicians are not presented with compelling data from long-term studies of the safety and efficacy of the products compared to alternative procedures. Further, the success of these products depends, in large part, on the time, effort and attention that Spectranetics devotes to them, and on Spectranetics’ success in manufacturing and selling them. We are entitled to various milestone payments under various agreements with Spectranetics. For these reasons discussed above, we cannot be certain if and when we will receive such milestone payments. We recently entered into a manufacturing agreement with, and made a non-controlling minority cost—method investment in Orteq Ltd. Orteq could make business decisions that are not in our best interests or with which we do not agree, which could impair the value of our investment in Orteq. Pursuant to our investment agreement with Orteq, as well as our additional cash advance to them, structured as convertible debt, in August 2011, we obtained a non-controlling minority cost-method investment in Orteq. Accordingly, we are not able to exert control or influence over Orteq or their business decisions. Our inability to control or influence Orteq could prevent us from liquidating our interests in them at a time or at a price that is favorable to us. Orteq may not act in ways that are consistent with our business strategy or that are in our best interests. These factors may limit our ability to maximize our return, and cause us to recognize losses, on our investment in Orteq. The loss of, or interruption of supply from, key vendors could limit our ability to manufacture our products. We purchase many materials and components for our products from various suppliers. Certain of these materials and components are custom made for us, and we have no ready alternative source. We also rely heavily on our closed-herd sourcing infrastructure for our collagen manufacturing, which cannot be readily replicated. Any loss of, problems with, or interruption of supply from, key vendors may require us to find new vendors. We could experience production or development delays while we attempt to seek new vendors, if we can find them. We may have problems manufacturing and delivering our biomaterials products to our customers. The biomaterials industry is an emerging area, using many materials which are untested or whose properties are still not known. In addition, many of our products are derived from natural materials, such as collagen, which can have varying properties, may be subject to international standards concerning their use in medical devices and require careful sourcing and handling controls. Consequently, from time to time we may experience unanticipated difficulties in manufacturing and delivering our biomaterials products to our customers. These difficulties may include an inability to meet customer supply demands, delays in delivering products, quality control problems or the need to react to changes in any standard that we adhere to. There can be no assurance that our closed-herd sourcing infrastructure will provide us with an adequate risk management protection mechanism for preventing animal derived diseases from entering the human medical device industry. Our products may be the subject of recalls, which may result in other future expense or changes to product strategy. The FDA and similar foreign governmental authorities have the authority to require the recall of our products in the event of any failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations or defects in design or manufacture. A government mandated or voluntary product recall by us could occur if any of our biomaterial products do not meet approved specifications or data demonstrates that any such products may be unsafe or ineffective. A product recall may have an adverse affect on our net sales and operating results. In addition to lost sales directly resulting from recalls, and the direct expenses associated with such resolution, a recall may have other materially 22 Table of Contents adverse, and potentially longer-term effects, including a negative impact on our reputation in the marketplace with respect to these and other of our products, changes to future product marketing plans, changes to clinical trial plans, and discontinuation of the recalled products. Our use of hazardous materials exposes us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. We use hazardous substances in our research and development and manufacturing operations, and therefore, are potentially subject to material liabilities related to personal injuries or property damages that could be caused by hazardous substance releases or exposures at or from our facility. Decontamination costs, other clean-up costs and related damages or liabilities could substantially impair our business and operating results. We are required to comply with increasingly stringent laws and regulations governing environmental protection and workplace safety, including requirements governing the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous substances. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived directly or indirectly from international markets. Many of our biomaterials products are sold by our customers in international markets, including the recently acquired Norian products. St. Jude Medical, for example, derives a significant portion of its Angio-Seal revenue from international markets. Our sales and royalties from international sales of the Angio-Seal product line by St. Jude Medical and our revenues from other international sales are subject to several risks, including: • the impact of recessions in economies outside the United States; • changes in regulatory requirements, reimbursement policies, tariffs or other trade barriers; • weaker intellectual property rights protection in some countries; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • potentially adverse tax consequences; and • political and economic instability. Our financial position, results of operations or cash flows may be negatively impacted by the current challenging economic conditions in the U.S. and the recent financial crisis. The current challenging economic conditions in the U.S. could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Among other things, we believe this challenging economic climate, including high unemployment levels and increases in co-pays, has contributed to fewer patients electing to undergo elective procedures for which our products, or the products of our partners, are used. Further, the challenging economic environment and the decline in federal and state revenues resulting from these conditions may create additional pressures to reduce reimbursements for procedures performed by physicians, hospitals and other users of our products from third party insurance providers, as well as Medicare, Medicaid and other government sponsored programs. In particular, weakness in the orthopaedic market has been attributed to the ongoing high unemployment rate and increased insurance costs, which reduced doctor visits and negatively affected pricing, as well as, greater difficulty in obtaining insurance company procedure approvals. The majority of our investments are in highly rated municipal bonds issued by states, cities, counties and other governmental entities. Due to the currently challenging economic conditions, bond issuers’ financial condition and the credit markets have continued to be highly volatile, and there can be no assurance that these conditions will not in the future adversely affect the liquidity or value of our investments in municipal bonds. If these economic conditions continue, or any investments in our portfolio experience any ratings downgrades, we may incur impairments to our investment portfolio, which could negatively affect our financial condition, cash flows and results of operation. 23 Table of Contents The financial troubles affecting the banking system and financial markets and the on-going concerns and threats to investment banks and other financial institutions have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit and equity markets. There could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on our business, including insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products and/or customer insolvencies; and counterparty failures negatively impacting our debt and treasury activities. Our business could be harmed if we lose the services of our key personnel. Our business depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel, including managerial and technical personnel. The know-how and capabilities of many of our current employees is highly specialized and difficult to replicate or replace in short timeframes. We compete for key personnel with other medical device companies, healthcare institutions, and other organizations. Our ability to maintain and expand our business may be impaired if we are unable to retain our current key personnel or hire or retain other qualified personnel in the future. Our recent acquisitions of assets from Nerites and Norian, and any other acquisitions that we undertake in the future could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or harm our operating results. In January 2011, we acquired substantially all of the assets and certain operational liabilities of Nerites, a developer of medical adhesives and anti-fouling coatings. In May 2011, we acquired certain operational assets and liabilities relating to the business and product lines of Norian, including bone void fillers and cements, as well as the manufacturing rights to these Norian products. These represented two significant transactions for our Company, in which the consideration paid by us used a substantial portion of our cash on hand. Additionally, we may in the future make other acquisitions or make investments in complementary businesses, technologies, services or products if appropriate opportunities arise. The process of integrating any acquired business, technology, service or product, including the assets recently acquired from Nerites and Norian, into our business and operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures, and integration of any acquired company also may consume much of our management’s time and attention that could otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business. In particular, we may be unable to successfully transition the manufacturing operations of the Norian products to our facility in Exton, Pennsylvania, which could increase expenses relating to the manufacturing of these Norian products and otherwise disrupt other areas of our ongoing business. Furthermore, acquisitions involve a number of risks, which may cause the anticipated benefits of any acquisition not to be realized. Specifically, with respect to our acquisition of assets of Nerites, we did not acquire any commercial products, and the time and resources that we will need to devote to research and development efforts relating to commercializing the acquired adhesive-based biomaterials technology are uncertain, and could be greater than what we currently anticipate. Furthermore, such research and development efforts may not result in our successful development of marketable products that employ this technology. In addition, any products that we do develop that employ this technology, similar to our other products, will be required to receive regulatory approval and, accordingly, will be subject to the completion of clinical trials in both the U.S. and Europe. Any delays or other unexpected difficulties experienced in connection with this regulatory approval process may cause us to incur additional expenses and adversely affect our ability to distribute products using this acquired technology into the marketplace. Even if we are able to successfully develop and obtain regulatory approval for any products that employ the Nerites technology or any products that arise out of any other acquisitions we undertake, we cannot be certain that we, or our strategic partners, will be able to successfully sell any of these products into the marketplace. In the case of our acquisition of assets of Norian, our success will be dependent in large part upon Synthes in selling the Norian products and will otherwise be dependent upon market acceptance of new products and applications, our ability to manufacture to the product specifications and produce sufficient volumes to fulfill customer demand, future success of our research and development efforts with respect to the Norian products, and availability of vendor-sourced components at reasonable prices. See also the risks discussed under “We derive a substantial majority of our revenues from only four major customers.” 24 Table of Contents In the future, we may be unable to identify, negotiate or finance future acquisitions successfully. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets. Our future operating results are difficult to predict and may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Our operating results have varied significantly from quarter to quarter in the past and are likely to vary substantially in the future as a result of a number of factors, some of which are not in our control, including: • ordering patterns by our customers/partners; • the focus and resources that our customers/partners place on developing/marketing the products that we develop and manufacture; • acceptance of the products we develop and manufacture in the end-user marketplace; • our ability to attract partners for our biomaterials products and technologies; • our efforts to gain European CE Mark and FDA approval for our devices; • the loss of significant orders; • changes in our relationship with St. Jude Medical and other major customers; • establishment of strategic alliances or acquisitions; • timely implementation of new and improved products; • delays in obtaining regulatory approvals; • reimbursement rates for our products; • fluctuations in exchange rates; and • changes in the competitive environment. You should not rely upon our results of operations for any particular quarter as an indication of our results for a full year or any other quarter. Our products are subject to clinical trials, which may delay commercialization of our products and may impact our use of time and resources in a material manner. A clinical trial is almost always required to support a PMA application, and is sometimes required for a 510(k) premarket notification. Accordingly, certain products we develop are subject to clinical trials, which must be conducted before our products can be marketed. These trials are for the purpose of confirming the safety and effectiveness of the product. We try to plan clinical trials prudently, but there is no guarantee that a balance between speed and testing can be made in each case. The length of time for each clinical trial may vary substantially according to the type, complexity and intended use of the product. Delays associated with products for which we are conducting clinical trials may cause us to incur additional expenses. Further, we may be affected by delays in clinical testing of certain products of our strategic partners, over which we may have no control. Unfavorable or inconsistent clinical data from existing or future clinical trials conducted by us, by our strategic partners, by our competitors or by other third parties, or the market’s perception of this clinical data, may adversely impact our ability to obtain product approvals, our position in, and share of, the markets in which we participate and our business, financial condition, results of operations or future prospects. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we are unable to protect our patents and proprietary rights, our reputation and competitiveness in the marketplace may be materially damaged. We regard our patents, trade secrets and other intellectual property as important to our success. We rely upon patent law, trade secret protection, license agreements and confidentiality agreements in protecting our 25 Table of Contents proprietary rights. Although we have filed or secured certain of our patents with applicable international governmental authorities, effective patent protection may not be available in every country in which our products are made available, and we have not sought patent protection for our intellectual property in every country where our products may be sold. Furthermore, patents are of limited duration and may not provide protection for the entire useful life of a product or product line. Our failure to obtain or maintain patent protection, or protect trade secrets, for any reason (or third-party claims against our patents, trade secrets, or proprietary rights, or our involvement in disputes over our patents, trade secrets, or proprietary rights, including involvement in litigation), could be costly and have a substantial negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Litigation, in general, and intellectual property litigation in particular, can be expensive, divert management time attention and otherwise be disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with any certainty and in the case of more complex legal proceedings, such as intellectual property litigation, the results are difficult to predict if at all. An adverse determination in any interference proceeding could prohibit us from selling our products, subject us to significant liabilities to third parties or require us to seek licenses from third parties. The costs associated with these license arrangements may be substantial and could include ongoing royalties. Furthermore, the necessary licenses may not be available to us, or may not be available on satisfactory terms. Failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products. The steps we take to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to ensure that third parties will not infringe or otherwise violate our patents or similar proprietary rights. We rely, in part, on confidentiality agreements with our partners, employees, advisors, vendors and consultants to protect our proprietary rights. There can be no guarantee that these agreements will not be breached, or that we will have adequate remedies for any such breach, or that our unpatented trade secrets and proprietary technological expertise will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered and developed by competitors. We may be accused of infringing upon the proprietary rights of others and any related litigation could materially damage our operating results and business. Third parties may claim that we have violated their intellectual property rights, any such claims, with or without merit, could subject us to costly litigation and divert the attention of key personnel and otherwise be disruptive to normal business operations. An adverse determination in any intellectual property litigation could prohibit us from selling our products, subject us to significant liabilities to third parties or require us to seek licenses from third parties. The costs associated with these license arrangements may be substantial and could include ongoing royalties. Furthermore, the necessary licenses may not be available to us, or may not be available on satisfactory terms. Failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products. The validity of our patents may be challenged by a competitor and our patents may not protect our business. Third parties may claim that one of our patents is invalid based on their prior disclosure or that of another party, whether such disclosure is in a patent application or not. This type of challenge may be made in any country where our patents are issued. Any of these claims, with or without merit, could subject us to costly litigation and divert the attention of key personnel and otherwise be disruptive to normal business operations. If our competitors claim technology also claimed by us and prepare and file patent applications in the United States, we may have to participate in interference proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or a foreign patent office to determine priority of invention. While we undertake to search the prior art, there is no guarantee that we find all existing incidences of disclosure of devices or technologies related to our inventions. There is also no assurance that any of our patents will not become the subject of a re-examination proceeding following issuance, will not be involved in an interference prior to issuance, or will provide us with competitive advantages. Furthermore, there can be no guarantee that others will not design around our patents. Any of these instances could have a substantial, negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 26 Table of Contents We do not own or control the use of the Angio-Seal device trademark. The term “Angio-Seal” is a trademark of St. Jude Medical. All goodwill generated by the marketing and sales of devices bearing the Angio-Seal trademark belongs to St. Jude Medical and not to us. Should the St. Jude Medical license agreements terminate, we would not have the right to call any of our products “Angio-Seal” unless we purchase or license the trademark from St. Jude Medical. Risks Related to Our Industry We may face product liability claims that could result in costly litigation and significant liabilities. The clinical testing, manufacture and sale of medical products involve an inherent risk that human subjects in clinical testing or consumers of the products may suffer serious bodily injury or death due to side effects or other unintended negative reactions to our products. Accordingly, the clinical testing, manufacture and sale of our products entail significant risk of product liability claims. The medical device industry in general has been subject to significant product liability litigation. Any product liability claims, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation, reduced sales, significant liabilities and diversion of our management’s time, attention and resources. We cannot be sure that our product liability insurance coverage is adequate or that it will continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. We face uncertainty relating to third party reimbursement for our products. We could be seriously harmed by changes in reimbursement policies of governmental or private healthcare payers, particularly to the extent any changes affect reimbursement for catheterization procedures in which Angio-Seal products are used. Physicians, hospitals and other users of our products, including our products under development such as our ECM and cartilage repair products, may fail to obtain sufficient reimbursement from healthcare payers for procedures in which our products are used, or are expected to be used, or adverse changes may occur in governmental and private third-party payers’ policies toward reimbursement for these procedures. For example, the decision by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) not to reimburse for treatment of asymptomatic patients suffering from carotid artery disease was a major factor in our fiscal 2007 decision not to continue to commercialize our embolic protection product line. Further, there have been, and continue to be, proposals by legislators, regulators and third-party payors to keep healthcare costs down. Certain proposals, if passed, would impose limitations on the prices we will be able to charge for our products, or the amounts of reimbursement available for our products from governmental agencies or third-party payors. These limitations, and other changes to reimbursement policy, could harm our business. The adoption of healthcare reform in the United States may adversely affect our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, being commonly referred to as, healthcare reform, and referred to below as, the Act), were enacted into law in the United States. The Act, which will affect major changes to the U.S. healthcare system, includes provisions that, among other things, will reduce and/or limit Medicare reimbursement, require all individuals to have health insurance (with limited exceptions) and impose new and/or increased taxes. Specifically, the Act will require the medical device industry to subsidize healthcare reform in the form of a 2.3% excise tax on U.S. sales of most medical devices beginning in 2013. Under our current business model, we sell substantially all of our products through strategic partners; as a result, we are still evaluating the impact, if any, of this tax on our overall business. At a minimum, this excise tax will be an additional cost incurred by our customers. Various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level. The Act and these proposals, if passed into law, could reduce medical procedure volumes and impact the demand for our products or the prices at which we or our customers can sell our products. In addition, the excise tax may increase our cost of doing business. While we believe the Act may have the impact on our business as described above, it is too early to understand and predict the full impact of the Act on our business, as many of 27 Table of Contents the details of the Act will be included in new and revised regulations, which have not yet been promulgated, and require additional guidance and specificity to be provided by the Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of Labor and the Department of Treasury. Our products and manufacturing activities are subject to extensive governmental regulation that could make it more expensive and time consuming for us to introduce new and improved products or cause us to withdraw products from certain markets. Our products and manufacturing activities are subject to extensive regulation by a number of governmental agencies, including the FDA and comparable international agencies. We are required to: • obtain the approval of the FDA and international agencies before we can market and sell new products; • satisfy these agencies’ requirements for all of our labeling, sales and promotional materials in connection with our existing products; • comply with all applicable design and manufacturing regulations; and • undergo rigorous inspections by these agencies. Compliance with the regulations of these agencies may delay or prevent us from introducing any new or improved products. Furthermore, we may be subject to sanctions, including temporary or permanent suspension of operations, product recalls and marketing restrictions if we fail to comply with the laws and regulations pertaining to our business. The FDA clearance and approval processes for a medical device, particularly for a device subject to PMA, can be expensive, uncertain and lengthy. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain necessary regulatory clearances or approvals for any product on a timely basis or at all. As an example, our cartilage repair device is subject to the PMA process. As with other medical devices subject to this rigorous process, our efforts to obtain FDA approval will be time consuming and expensive. The FDA ultimately may deny our PMA application for this device, and/or may require additional clinical trials, which could delay the PMA approval process by several years. The FDA and international regulatory agencies may also limit the indications for which our products are promoted. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials and manufacturing and marketing of our products internationally vary from country to country. Foreign approvals may take longer to obtain than FDA approvals and can require, among other things, additional testing and different clinical trial designs. If we fail to comply with these regulatory requirements or obtain and maintain required approvals in any foreign country, we will not be able to sell our products (or our partners will not be able to sell their products which incorporate our devices) in that country. We are also required to demonstrate compliance with the FDA’s Quality System Regulations. The FDA enforces its Quality System Regulations through pre-approval and periodic post-approval inspections of our manufacturing facility. These regulations relate to product testing, vendor qualification, manufacturing control, design control and quality assurance, as well as the maintenance of records and documentation. If we are found to be out of compliance with FDA regulations, it could be costly and difficult for us to correct the non-compliances and could seriously harm our business. Regulatory agencies may restrict or withdraw approvals if information becomes available to support this action, which could include actions based on sourcing of animal derived tissue. In addition, regulations regarding the development, manufacture and sale of medical devices are subject to future change, including the adoption of more rigorous regulation. We cannot predict what impact, if any, those changes might have on our business, the businesses of our strategic partners, or the businesses of our competitors. 28 Table of Contents The adoption of reform to the FDA’s 510(k) process, as proposed by the FDA in its recently released preliminary recommendations, may adversely affect our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. Our products are generally subject to the FDA’s 510(k) approval requirements, among other governmental regulations. In August 2010, the FDA issued its preliminary recommendations on reform of the 510(k) process for premarket clearance of medical devices. The FDA’s preliminary recommendations include, among other things, granting to the FDA of authority to rescind 510(k) clearance, revising existing guidance to clarify what types of modifications to existing 510(k) cleared devices warrant submission of a new 510(k), exploring the possibility of potentially requiring manufacturers to provide periodic updates to the FDA’s Center for Devices and Radiological Health listing modifications without submitting a new 510(k), adopting a framework for 510(k) submissions that requires formal validation of claims with supporting evidence and developing guidance requiring that the complete device description and intended use information be submitted and described in detail in a single section of a 510(k). While the FDA has indicated that these recommendations are preliminary in nature, if implemented, these recommendations could have the effect of making it more difficult and expensive for us, and other companies, to obtain 510(k) clearance and potentially jeopardizing the regulatory status of certain 510(k) cleared devices. It is too early to understand and predict the full impact that any modifications to the FDA’s 510(k) process may have on our business, as the FDA has emphasized that these recommendations are only preliminary in nature, and the FDA will solicit and evaluate public comments on these recommendations. Risks Related To Our Securities The trading price of our Common Stock is likely to fluctuate substantially in the future. The trading price of our Common Stock may fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, some of which are not in our control, including: • changes in our own forecasts or earnings estimates by analysts; • our customers and licensees’ ability to meet or exceed the forecasts or expectations of analysts or investors; • our ability to meet or exceed our own forecasts or expectations of analysts or investors; • quarter-to-quarter variations in our operating results; • announcements regarding clinical activities or new products by us or our competitors; • general conditions in the medical device industry; • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market, which have particularly affected the market prices of many medical device companies; • our stock repurchase programs; and • general economic conditions. In addition, the market for our stock has experienced, and may continue to experience, price and volume fluctuations unrelated or disproportionate to our operating performance. As a result, our stockholders may not be able to sell shares of our Common Stock at or above the price at which they purchase them. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. If any securities litigation is initiated against us, with or without merit, we could incur substantial costs, and our management’s attention and resources could be diverted from our business. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation, third amended and restated bylaws, stockholders rights plan and Delaware law may discourage an attempt to acquire our Company. Provisions of our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation, third amended and restated bylaws, stockholders rights plan and Delaware law may render more difficult or discourage any attempt to acquire our 29 Table of Contents Company, even if such acquisition may be favorable to the interests of our stockholders, discourage bids for our Common Stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. In particular, our stockholders rights plan, adopted in June 2009, may cause substantial dilution to any person or group that attempts to acquire us without the approval of our Board of Directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 