Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below when evaluating our company and when deciding whether to invest in our company. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we do not currently believe are important to an investor may also harm our business operations. If any of the events, contingencies, circumstances or conditions described in the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or our results of operations could 5 Table of Contents be seriously harmed. If that happens, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose part or all of the value of any of our shares held by you. Risks Related to Our Business Our operating results may fluctuate significantly from period to period, and this may cause our stock price to decline. Our revenue and operating results have fluctuated in the past and are expected to continue to fluctuate in the future. Given this fluctuation, we believe that quarter to quarter comparisons of revenue and operating results are not necessarily meaningful or an accurate indicator of our future performance. As a result, our results of operations may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in the future. If this occurs, the price of our stock would likely decline. Factors that contribute to fluctuations in operating results include the following: • slowing sales by our distribution and fulfillment partners to their customers, which may place pressure on these partners to reduce purchases of our products; • volume, timing and fulfillment of customer orders; • our ability to generate additional revenue from our intellectual property portfolio; • customers delaying their purchasing decisions in anticipation of new versions of our products; • customers delaying, canceling or limiting their purchases as a result of the threat or results of terrorism; • introduction of new products by us or our competitors; • seasonality in purchasing patterns of our customers; • reduction in the prices of our products in response to competition, market conditions or contractual obligations; • returns and allowance charges in excess of accrued amounts; • timing of significant marketing and sales promotions; • impairment charges against goodwill and intangible assets; • delayed realization of synergies resulting from our acquisitions; • write-offs of excess or obsolete inventory and accounts receivable that are not collectible; • increased expenditures incurred pursuing new product or market opportunities; • general economic trends as they affect retail and corporate sales; and • higher than anticipated costs related to fixed-price contracts with our customers. Due to the foregoing factors, among others, our revenue and operating results are difficult to forecast. Our expense levels are based in significant part on our expectations of future revenue and we may not be able to reduce our expenses quickly to respond to a shortfall in projected revenue. Therefore, our failure to meet revenue expectations would seriously harm our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We have grown, and may continue to grow, through acquisitions, which could dilute our existing stockholders. As part of our business strategy, we have in the past acquired, and expect to continue to acquire, other businesses and technologies. In connection with past acquisitions, we issued a substantial number of shares of our common stock as transaction consideration and also incurred significant debt to finance the cash consideration used for our acquisitions. We may continue to issue equity securities for future acquisitions, which would dilute existing stockholders, perhaps significantly depending on the terms of such acquisitions. We may also incur additional debt in connection with future acquisitions, which, if available at all, may place additional restrictions on our ability to operate our business. 6 Table of Contents Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions will depend on successfully integrating the acquired businesses. Our prior acquisitions required, and our recently completed acquisitions continue to require, substantial integration and management efforts and we expect future acquisitions to require similar efforts. Acquisitions of this nature involve a number of risks, including: • difficulty in transitioning and integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses; • potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; • potential difficulty in successfully implementing, upgrading and deploying in a timely and effective manner new operational information systems and upgrades of our finance, accounting and product distribution systems; • difficulty in incorporating acquired technology and rights into our products and technology; • potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process research and development; • unanticipated expenses and delays in completing acquired development projects and technology integration; • management of geographically remote business units both in the United States and internationally; • impairment of relationships with partners and customers; • assumption of unknown material liabilities of acquired companies; • accurate projection of revenue plans of the acquired entity in the due diligence process; • customers delaying purchases of our products pending resolution of product integration between our existing and our newly acquired products; • entering markets or types of businesses in which we have limited experience; and • potential loss of key employees of the acquired business. As a result of these and other risks, if we are unable to successfully integrate acquired businesses, we may not realize the anticipated benefits from our acquisitions. Any failure to achieve these benefits or failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses and technologies could seriously harm our business. Charges to earnings as a result of our acquisitions may adversely affect our operating results in the foreseeable future, which could have a material and adverse effect on the market value of our common stock. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, we record the market value of our common stock or other form of consideration issued in connection with an acquisition as the cost of acquiring the company or business. We have allocated that cost to the individual assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including various identifiable intangible assets such as acquired technology, acquired trade names and acquired customer relationships based on their respective fair values. Our estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain. After we complete an acquisition, the following factors could result in material charges and adversely affect our operating results and may adversely affect our cash flows: • costs incurred to combine the operations of businesses we acquire, such as transitional employee expenses and employee retention, redeployment or relocation expenses; • impairment of goodwill or intangible assets; • amortization of intangible assets acquired; • a reduction in the useful lives of intangible asset acquired; 7 Table of Contents • identification of or changes to assumed contingent liabilities, both income tax and non-income tax related after our final determination of the amounts for these contingencies or the conclusion of the measurement period (generally up to one year from the acquisition date), whichever comes first; • charges to our operating results to eliminate certain duplicative pre-merger activities, to restructure our operations or to reduce our cost structure; • charges to our operating results resulting from expenses incurred to effect the acquisition; and • charges to our operating results due to the expensing of certain stock awards assumed in an acquisition. Intangible assets are generally amortized over a five to fifteen year period. Goodwill and certain intangible assets with indefinite lives, are not subject to amortization but are subject to an impairment analysis, at least annually, which may result in an impairment charge if the carrying value exceeds its implied fair value. As of September 30, 2011, we had identified intangible assets of approximately $731.6 million, net of accumulated amortization, and goodwill of approximately $2.3 billion. In addition, purchase accounting limits our ability to recognize certain revenue that otherwise would have been recognized by the acquired company as an independent business. As a result, the combined company may delay revenue recognition or recognize less revenue than we and the acquired company would have recognized as independent companies. Our significant debt could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our credit facility and our convertible debentures. We have a significant amount of debt. As of September 30, 2011, we had a total of $887.4 million of gross debt outstanding, including $145.0 million in term loans due in March 2013, $492.0 million in term loans due in March 2016 under an amended and restated agreement signed in July 2011, and $250.0 million in convertible debentures. Investors may require us to redeem the convertible debentures in August 2014, or sooner if our common stock price exceeds the conversion price of approximately $23.36 for certain specified periods. We also have a $75.0 million revolving credit line available to us through March 2015. As of September 30, 2011, there were $15.4 million of letters of credit issued but there were no other outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit line. Additionally, on October 24, 2011, we sold $690.0 million of 2.75% convertible debentures which investors may require us to redeem in November 2017. Our debt level could have important consequences, for example it could: • require us to use a large portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on debt, including the convertible debentures and the credit facility, which will reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development expenditures and other business activities; • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or exploiting business opportunities; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants related to our debt, our ability to borrow additional funds, dispose of assets or pay cash dividends. Our ability to meet our payment and other obligations under our debt instruments depends on our ability to generate significant cash flow in the future. This, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors as well as other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow from operations, or that additional capital will be available to us, in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our payment obligations under the convertible debentures and our other debt and to fund other liquidity needs. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, including the convertible debentures, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. If we are unable to implement one or more of these alternatives, we may not be able to meet our payment obligations under the convertible debentures and our other debt. In addition, a substantial portion of our debt bears interest at variable rates. If market interest rates increase, our debt service requirements will increase, which would adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. 8 Table of Contents Our debt agreements contain covenant restrictions that may limit our ability to operate our business. The agreement governing our senior credit facility contains, and any of our other future debt agreements may contain, covenant restrictions that limit our ability to operate our business, including restrictions on our ability to: • incur additional debt or issue guarantees; • create liens; • make certain investments; • enter into transactions with our affiliates; • sell certain assets; • redeem capital stock or make other restricted payments; • declare or pay dividends or make other distributions to stockholders; and • merge or consolidate with any entity. Our ability to comply with these covenants is dependent on our future performance, which will be subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including prevailing economic conditions. As a result of these covenants, our ability to respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to obtain additional financing, if needed, may be significantly restricted, and we may be prevented from engaging in transactions that might otherwise be beneficial to us. In addition, our failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under our debt agreements, which could permit the holders to accelerate our obligation to repay the debt. If any of our debt is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available to repay the accelerated debt. We have a history of operating losses, and may incur losses in the future, which may require us to raise additional capital on unfavorable terms. We reported net income of $38.2 million in fiscal 2011, however we reported net losses of $19.1 million and $19.4 million for the fiscal years 2010 and 2009, respectively. If we are unable to maintain profitability, the market price for our stock may decline, perhaps substantially. We cannot assure you that our revenue will grow or that we will maintain profitability in the future. If we do not achieve and maintain profitability, we may be required to raise additional capital to maintain or grow our operations. Additional capital, if available at all, may be highly dilutive to existing investors or contain other unfavorable terms, such as a high interest rate and restrictive covenants. Voice and language technologies may not continue to garner widespread acceptance, which could limit our ability to grow our voice and language business. We have invested and expect to continue to invest heavily in the acquisition, development and marketing of voice and language technologies. The market for voice and language technologies is relatively new and rapidly evolving. Our ability to increase revenue in the future depends in large measure on the continuing acceptance of these technologies in general and our products in particular. The continued development of the market for our current and future voice and language solutions in general, and our solutions in particular, will also depend on: • consumer and business demand for speech-enabled applications; • development by third-party vendors of applications using voice and language technologies; and • continuous improvement in voice and language technology. Sales of our voice and language products would be harmed if the market for these technologies does not continue to increase or increases slower than we expect, or if we fail to develop new technology faster than our competitors, and consequently, our business could be harmed and we may not achieve a level of profitability necessary to successfully operate our business. 9 Table of Contents The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and rapidly changing and we may be unable to compete successfully. There are a number of companies that develop or may develop products that compete in our targeted markets. The individual markets in which we compete are highly competitive, and are rapidly changing. Within voice and language, we compete with AT&T, Microsoft, Google, and other smaller providers. Within healthcare, we compete with Medquist and other smaller providers. Within imaging, we compete with ABBYY, Adobe, I.R.I.S. and NewSoft. In voice and language, some of our partners such as Avaya, Cisco, Intervoice and Genesys develop and market products that can be considered substitutes for our solutions. In addition, a number of smaller companies in voice, language and imaging produce technologies or products that are in some markets competitive with our solutions. Current and potential competitors have established, or may establish, cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase the ability of their technologies to address the needs of our prospective customers. The competition in these markets could adversely affect our operating results by reducing the volume of the products we license or the prices we can charge. Some of our current or potential competitors, such as Adobe, Microsoft and Google, have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. These competitors may be able to respond more rapidly than we can to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements. They may also devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we do. Some of our customers, such as Microsoft and Google, have developed or acquired products or technologies that compete with our products and technologies. These customers may give higher priority to the sale of these competitive products or technologies. To the extent they do so, market acceptance and penetration of our products, and therefore our revenue, may be adversely affected. Our success will depend substantially upon our ability to enhance our products and technologies and to develop and introduce, on a timely and cost-effective basis, new products and features that meet changing customer requirements and incorporate technological enhancements. If we are unable to develop new products and enhance functionalities or technologies to adapt to these changes, or if we are unable to realize synergies among our acquired products and technologies, our business will suffer. The failure to successfully maintain the adequacy of our system of internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse impact on our ability to report our financial results in an accurate and timely manner. The SEC, as directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Any failure in the effectiveness of our system of internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse impact on our ability to report our financial statements in an accurate and timely manner, could subject us to regulatory actions, civil or criminal penalties, shareholder litigation, or loss of customer confidence, which could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could negatively impact our stock price. A significant portion of our revenue is derived, and a significant portion of our research and development activities are based, outside the United States. Our results could be harmed by economic, political, regulatory and other risks associated with these international regions. Because we operate worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. We anticipate that revenue from international operations could increase in the future. Most of our international revenue is generated by sales in Europe and Asia. In addition, some of our products are developed and manufactured outside the United States and we have a large number of employees in India that provide transcription services. We also have a large number of employees in Canada and United Kingdom that provide professional services. A significant portion of the development and manufacturing of our voice and language products is conducted in 10 Table of Contents Belgium and Canada, and a significant portion of our imaging research and development is conducted in Hungary. We also have significant research and development resources in Austria, Germany, Italy, and United Kingdom. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors associated with international sales and operations, including: • changes in a specific country’s or region’s economic conditions; • geopolitical turmoil, including terrorism and war; • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements imposed by the United States or by other countries; • compliance with foreign and domestic laws and regulations; • negative consequences from changes in applicable tax laws; • difficulties in staffing and managing operations in multiple locations in many countries; • difficulties in collecting trade accounts receivable in other countries; and • less effective protection of intellectual property than in the United States. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Because we have international subsidiaries and distributors that operate and sell our products outside the United States, we are exposed to the risk of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. In certain circumstances, we have entered into forward exchange contracts to hedge against foreign currency fluctuations. We use these contracts to reduce our risk associated with exchange rate movements, as the gains or losses on these contracts are intended to offset any exchange rate losses or gains on the hedged transaction. We do not engage in foreign currency speculation. With our increased international presence in a number of geographic locations and with international revenue and costs projected to increase, we are exposed to changes in foreign currencies including the euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, Japanese yen, Indian rupee, Australian dollar, Israel shekel, Swiss franc and the Hungarian forint. Changes in the value of foreign currencies relative to the value of the U.S. dollar could adversely affect future revenue and operating results. Impairment of our intangible assets could result in significant charges that would adversely impact our future operating results. We have significant intangible assets, including goodwill and intangibles with indefinite lives, which are susceptible to valuation adjustments as a result of changes in various factors or conditions. The most significant intangible assets are patents and core technology, completed technology, customer relationships and trademarks. Customer relationships are amortized on an accelerated basis based upon the pattern in which the economic benefits of customer relationships are being utilized. Other identifiable intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. We assess the potential impairment of intangible assets on an annual basis, as well as whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that could trigger an impairment of such assets, include the following: • significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results; • significant changes in the manner of or use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business; • significant negative industry or economic trends; • significant decline in our stock price for a sustained period; • changes in our organization or management reporting structure that could result in additional reporting units, which may require alternative methods of estimating fair values or greater disaggregation or aggregation in our analysis by reporting unit; and • a decline in our market capitalization below net book value. 11 Table of Contents Future adverse changes in these or other unforeseeable factors could result in an impairment charge that would impact our results of operations and financial position in the reporting period identified. Our sales to government clients subject us to risks, including early termination, audits, investigations, sanctions and penalties. We derive a portion of our revenues from contracts with the United States government, as well as various state and local governments, and their respective agencies. Government contracts are generally subject to audits and investigations which could identify violations of these agreements. Government contract violations could result in a range of consequences including, but not limited to, contract price adjustments, civil and criminal penalties, contract termination, forfeiture of profit and/or suspension of payment, and suspension or debarment from future government contracts. We could also suffer serious harm to our reputation if we were found to have violated the terms of our government contracts. We conducted an analysis of our compliance with the terms and conditions of certain contracts with the U.S. General Services Administration (“GSA”). Based upon our analysis, we voluntarily notified GSA of non-compliance with the terms of two contracts. The final resolution of this matter may adversely impact our financial position. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our business could be harmed. If any of our key employees were to leave, we could face substantial difficulty in hiring qualified successors and could experience a loss in productivity while any successor obtains the necessary training and experience. Our employment relationships are generally at-will and we have had key employees leave in the past. We cannot assure you that one or more key employees will not leave in the future. We intend to continue to hire additional highly qualified personnel, including software engineers and operational personnel, but may not be able to attract, assimilate or retain qualified personnel in the future. Any failure to attract, integrate, motivate and retain these employees could harm our business. Our medical transcription services may be subject to legal claims for failure to comply with laws governing the confidentiality of medical records. Healthcare professionals who use our medical transcription services deliver to us health information about their patients including information that constitutes a record under applicable law that we may store on our computer systems. Numerous federal and state laws and regulations, the common law and contractual obligations govern collection, dissemination, use and confidentiality of patient-identifiable health information, including: • state and federal privacy and confidentiality laws; • our contracts with customers and partners; • state laws regulating healthcare professionals; • Medicaid laws; and • the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and related rules proposed by the Health Care Financing Administration. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 establishes elements including, but not limited to, federal privacy and security standards for the use and protection of protected health information. Any failure by us or by our personnel or partners to comply with applicable requirements may result in a material liability. Although we have systems and policies in place for safeguarding protected health information from unauthorized disclosure, these systems and policies may not preclude claims against us for alleged violations of applicable requirements. There can be no assurance that we will not be subject to liability claims that could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents Adverse changes in general economic or political conditions in any of the major countries in which we do business could adversely affect our operating results. Adverse changes in domestic and global economic and political conditions, as well as uncertainty in the global financial markets may negatively affect our financial results. These macroeconomic developments could negatively affect our business, operating results or financial condition in a number of ways which, in turn, could adversely affect our stock price. A prolonged period of economic decline could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and exacerbate some of the other risk factors described herein. Our customers may defer purchases of our products, licenses, and services in response to tighter credit and negative financial news or reduce their demand for them. Our customers may also not be able to obtain adequate access to credit, which could affect their ability to make timely payments to us or ultimately cause the customer to file for protection from creditors under applicable insolvency or bankruptcy laws. If our customers are not able to make timely payments to us, our accounts receivable could increase. Political instability in any of the major countries in which we do business would also likely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Current uncertainty in the global financial markets and the global economy may negatively affect our financial results. Our investment portfolio, which includes short-term debt securities, is generally subject to credit, liquidity, counterparty, market and interest rate risks that may be exacerbated by the recent global financial crisis. If the banking system or the fixed income, credit or equity markets deteriorate or remain volatile, our investment portfolio may be impacted and the values and liquidity of our investments could be adversely affected. In addition, our operating results and financial condition could be negatively affected if, as a result of economic conditions, either: • the demand for, and prices of, our products, licenses, or services are reduced as a result of actions by our competitors or otherwise; or • our financial counterparties or other contractual counterparties are unable to, or do not, meet their contractual commitments to us. Security and privacy breaches in our systems may damage client relations and inhibit our growth. The uninterrupted operation of our hosted solutions and the confidentiality and security of third-party information is critical to our business. Any failures in our security and privacy measures could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. If we are unable to protect, or our clients perceive that we are unable to protect, the security and privacy of our electronic information, our growth could be materially adversely affected. A security or privacy breach may: • cause our clients to lose confidence in our solutions; • harm our reputation; • expose us to liability; and • increase our expenses from potential remediation costs. While we believe we use proven applications designed for data security and integrity to process electronic transactions, there can be no assurance that our use of these applications will be sufficient to address changing market conditions or the security and privacy concerns of existing and potential clients. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property and Technology Unauthorized use of our proprietary technology and intellectual property could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our success and competitive position depend in large part on our ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property rights protecting our products and services. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, 13 Table of Contents service marks, trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain, license, sell or otherwise use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult and we may not be able to protect our technology from unauthorized use. Additionally, our competitors may independently develop technologies that are substantially the same or superior to our technologies and that do not infringe our rights. In these cases, we would be unable to prevent our competitors from selling or licensing these similar or superior technologies. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Although the source code for our proprietary software is protected both as a trade secret and as a copyrighted work, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Litigation, regardless of the outcome, can be very expensive and can divert management efforts. Third parties have claimed and may claim in the future that we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could be exposed to significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling our products if such claims are successful. From time to time, we are subject to claims that we or our customers may be infringing or contributing to the infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. We may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technologies and products. If it appears necessary or desirable, we may seek licenses for these intellectual property rights. However, we may not be able to obtain licenses from some or all claimants, the terms of any offered licenses may not be acceptable to us, and we may not be able to resolve disputes without litigation. Any litigation regarding intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. In the event of a claim of intellectual property infringement, we may be required to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. Third parties claiming intellectual property infringement may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to develop and sell our products. We may incur substantial costs enforcing or acquiring intellectual property rights and defending against third-party claims as a result of litigation or other proceedings. In connection with the enforcement of our own intellectual property rights, the acquisition of third-party intellectual property rights, or disputes relating to the validity or alleged infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, including patent rights, we have been, are currently, and may in the future be, subject to claims, negotiations or complex, protracted litigation. Intellectual property disputes and litigation are typically very costly and can be disruptive to our business operations by diverting the attention and energy of management and key technical personnel. Although we have successfully defended or resolved past litigation and disputes, we may not prevail in any ongoing or future litigation and disputes. In addition, we may incur significant costs in acquiring the necessary third party intellectual property rights for use in our products. Third party intellectual property disputes could subject us to significant liabilities, require us to enter into royalty and licensing arrangements on unfavorable terms, prevent us from manufacturing or licensing certain of our products, cause severe disruptions to our operations or the markets in which we compete, or require us to satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers including contractual provisions under various license arrangements. Any of these could seriously harm our business. Our software products may have bugs, which could result in delayed or lost revenue, expensive correction, liability to our customers and claims against us. Complex software products such as ours may contain errors, defects or bugs. Defects in the solutions or products that we develop and sell to our customers could require expensive corrections and result in delayed or lost revenue, adverse customer reaction and negative publicity about us or our products and services. Customers who are not satisfied with any of our products may also bring claims against us for damages, which, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming to defend, and could result in costly litigation and payment of damages. Such claims could harm our reputation, financial results and competitive position. 14 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Corporate Structure, Organization and Common Stock The holdings of our largest stockholder may enable it to influence matters requiring stockholder approval. As of September 30, 2011, Warburg Pincus, a global private equity firm, beneficially owned approximately 23% of our outstanding common stock, including warrants exercisable for up to 7,562,422 shares of our common stock, and 3,562,238 shares of our outstanding Series B Preferred Stock, each of which is convertible into one share of our common stock. Because of its large holdings of our capital stock relative to other stockholders, this stockholder has a strong influence over matters requiring approval by our stockholders. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations, and this may make it difficult for you to resell the common stock when you want or at prices you find attractive. Our stock price historically has been, and may continue to be, volatile. Various factors contribute to the volatility of our stock price, including, for example, quarterly variations in our financial results, new product introductions by us or our competitors and general economic and market conditions. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by our largest stockholders, or the perception that such sales could occur, could also contribute to the volatility or our stock price. While we cannot predict the individual effect that these factors may have on the market price of our common stock, these factors, either individually or in the aggregate, could result in significant volatility in our stock price during any given period of time. Moreover, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock often are subject to securities class action litigation. If we were the subject of such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, new regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the rules of the Nasdaq Marketplace, are resulting in increased general and administrative expenses for companies such as ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies, our business may be harmed. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and our ability to raise funds in new stock offerings. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing trading prices of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-related securities. In connection with past acquisitions, we issued a substantial number of shares of our common stock as transaction consideration. We may continue to issue equity securities for future acquisitions, which would dilute existing stockholders, perhaps significantly depending on the terms of such acquisitions. No prediction can be made as to the effect, if any, that future sales of shares of common stock, or the availability of shares of common stock for future sale, will have on the trading price of our common stock. 15 Table of Contents We have implemented anti-takeover provisions, which could discourage or prevent a takeover, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law, as well as other organizational documents could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include: • authorized “blank check” preferred stock; • prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; • limiting the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; • requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at meetings of our stockholders; and • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of directors and for stockholder proposals. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 16 Table of Contents 