Item 1A. Risk Factors Investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of, but are not limited to, these risks. In assessing these risks, investors should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto. Our Operating Results May Fluctuate Significantly Although we are transitioning to a predominantly term license model, perpetual licenses still constituted approximately half of our annual software license revenues in 2006. Until we substantially complete our transition to a term license model, our license revenues will be affected by the continued reduction in perpetual license revenue and by the relatively slower revenue recognition associated with the term license model, which is typically over a three year period. Under a perpetual model, customers purchase licenses to use our software indefinitely and generally we recognize all license revenue at the time of sale; maintenance is purchased under an annual renewable contract, and recognized ratably over the contract period. Under a term model, customers purchase a license to use our software and receive maintenance for a limited period of time and we recognize the revenue ratably over the length of the contract. During fiscal 2006, we recognized 49% of license revenue from term licenses and incremental AUA fees as compared to approximately 25% in fiscal 2005 and 11% in 2004. Term license contracts are comprised of both software licenses and maintenance services and we allocate 55% of the term revenue to license and 45% of the term revenue to maintenance, based on the relative economic value of these two elements. Individual perpetual software licenses vary significantly in value, and the value and timing of these transactions can therefore cause our quarterly license revenues to fluctuate. We have often recognized a substantial portion of a quarter’s perpetual license revenues in the last month, weeks or even days of the quarter. As a result, the magnitude of quarterly fluctuations in license revenue may not be evident until late in or after the close of a particular quarter, and a disruption late in the quarter may have a disproportionately large negative impact on revenue. In addition, some of our large professional services contracts contain performance milestones or acceptance clauses, and term license revenue is not recognized until related implementation services are substantially completed, all of which affect the timing of revenue recognized under such contracts. As a result of these and other factors, our quarterly net revenues may fluctuate significantly. Our expense levels are relatively fixed in the short-term. Due to the fixed nature of these expenses, combined with the relatively high gross margin historically achieved on our products, an unanticipated decline in net revenues in any particular quarter may adversely affect our operating results. In addition, we experience seasonality in our license revenue. The fourth quarter of the year typically has the highest license revenue, followed by lower license revenue in the first quarter of the following year. We believe that this seasonality results primarily from customer budgeting cycles and the annual nature of some AUA contracts, and expect this seasonality to continue in the future. 14 Because of the above factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that these comparisons cannot be relied upon as indicators of future performance. Our Sales Cycle is Long and We Have Limited Ability to Forecast the Timing and Amount of Specific Sales and the Timing of Specific Implementations The purchase of our software products often requires prospective customers to provide significant executive-level sponsorship and to make major systems architecture decisions. As a result, we must generally engage in relatively lengthy sales and contracting efforts. Sales transactions may therefore be delayed during the customer decision process because we must provide a significant level of education to prospective customers regarding the use and benefit of our products. For example in 2002 and 2003, existing and potential clients reduced or canceled expenditures and delayed decisions related to acquisition of software and related services. While we have seen improved economic conditions in recent years, customers are still cautious about capital and information technology expenditures. As a result, the sales cycle associated with the purchase of our solutions is typically between two and twelve months depending upon the size of the client, and is subject to a number of significant risks over which we have little or no control, including customers’ budgeting constraints, internal selection procedures, and changes in customer personnel, among others. As a result of a lengthy and unpredictable sales cycle, we have limited ability to forecast the timing and amount of specific license sales. The timing of large individual license sales is especially difficult to forecast, and we may not be successful in closing large license transactions on a timely basis or at all. Customers may postpone their purchases of our existing products or product enhancements in advance of the anticipated introduction of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors. When a customer purchases a term license together with implementation services we do not recognize any revenue under the contract until the implementation services are substantially complete. If we are not able to complete an implementation project for a term license in a quarter, it will cause us to defer all of the contract revenues to a subsequent quarter. Because our expenses are relatively fixed in the near term, any shortfall from anticipated revenues could result in a significant variation in our operating results from quarter to quarter. We Depend Heavily on Our Axys®, Geneva and APX Products We derive a significant portion of our net revenues from the licensing of Axys and Geneva products. In addition, many of our other applications, such as Moxy, Partner and various data services have been designed with either of these two products to provide an integrated solution. As a result, we believe that for the next several years a majority of our net revenues will depend upon continued market acceptance of Axys and Geneva, and upgrades to those products. In addition, APX, our newest portfolio accounting and reporting product, is of critical importance in providing an upgrade path for many of our Axys customers. Our long-term growth could be harmed if we are unable to establish APX as a leading product in the market. As a result, we may not be able to successfully upgrade existing Axys clients to APX, or to attract new customers to buy APX. Uncertain Economic and Financial Market Conditions May Continue to Affect Our Revenues We believe that the market for large investment management software systems may be affected by a number of factors, including reductions in capital expenditures by large customers and poor performance of major financial markets. The target clients for our products include a range of financial services organizations that manage investment portfolios. In addition in our MicroEdge business segment, we target corporations, public funds, universities and non-profit organizations, which also manage investment portfolios and have many of the same needs. The success of many of our clients is intrinsically linked to the 15 health of the financial markets. We believe that demand for our solutions has been, and could continue to be, disproportionately affected by fluctuations, disruptions, instability or downturns in the economy and financial services industry which may cause clients and potential clients to exit the industry or delay, cancel or reduce any planned expenditures for investment management systems and software products. In addition, a slowdown in the formation of new investment firms, especially hedge funds, or a decline in the growth of assets under management would cause a decline in demand for our solutions. We have, in the past, experienced a number of market downturns in the financial services industry and resulting declines in information technology spending, which has caused longer sales and contracting cycles, deferral or delay of information technology projects and generally reduced expenditures for software and related services, and we believe that future uncertainty about financial markets and the financial services sector could have a material adverse effect on our revenues. We Face Competition The market for investment management software is competitive and highly fragmented, is subject to rapid change and is sensitive to new product introductions and marketing efforts by industry participants. Our largest single source of competition is from proprietary systems used by existing and potential clients, many of whom develop their own software for their particular needs and therefore may be reluctant to license software products offered by independent vendors such as Advent. Other competitors include providers of software and related services as well as providers of outsourced services. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories and greater financial, technical, sales and marketing resources than we do. In addition, consolidation has occurred among some of the competitors in our markets. Competitors vary in size, scope of services offered and platforms supported. In 2005 and 2006, seven of our competitors were acquired with the possibility of forming even larger companies through additional acquisitions of companies and technologies. Any further consolidation among our competitors may result in stronger competitors in our markets and may therefore either result in a loss of market share or harm our results of operations. In addition, we also face competition from potential new entrants into our market that may develop innovative technologies or business models. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that competitive pressure will not result in price reductions, reduced operating margins or loss of market share, any one of which could seriously harm our business. We Must Continue to Introduce New Products and Product Enhancements The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological change, changes in customer demands, evolving industry standards and new regulatory requirements. New products based on new technologies or new industry standards can render existing products obsolete and unmarketable. As a result, our future success will continue to depend upon our ability to develop new products, such as our APX product, or product enhancements, that address the future needs of our target markets and to respond to their changing standards and practices. We may not be successful in developing, introducing, marketing and licensing our new products or product enhancements on a timely and cost effective basis, or at all, and our new products and product enhancements may not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace or achieve market acceptance. Delays in the commencement of commercial shipments of new products or enhancements may result in client dissatisfaction and delay or loss of product revenues. In addition, clients may delay purchases in anticipation of new products or product enhancements. Our ability to develop new products and product enhancements is also dependent upon the products of other software vendors, including certain system software vendors, such as Microsoft Corporation, Sun Microsystems, database vendors and development tool vendors. If the products of such vendors have design defects or flaws, are unexpectedly delayed in their introduction, or are unavailable on acceptable terms, our business could be seriously harmed. 16 If We Fail to Appropriately Scale Our Operations in Response to Changes in Demand for Our Existing Products and Services or to the Demand for New Products Requested by Our Customers, Our Business Could be Materially and Adversely Affected To achieve our business objectives, we anticipate that we will need to continue to expand. We have experienced a period of rapid growth in the past. Through internal growth, we significantly increased the scope of our operations and expanded our workforce from 736 employees at December 31, 2005 to 824 employees at December 31, 2006. Nonetheless, we may not be able to expand our workforce and operations in a sufficiently timely manner to respond effectively to changes in demand for our existing products and services or to the demand for new products requested by our customers. For example, to keep pace with the strong demand for our products experienced in 2006, we have increased headcount in our client services and consulting groups. In 2007, we expect to continue adding headcount to support increased product development, enhancements and implementations. In addition, to support our growth, in January 2006, we signed a $20 million lease agreement under which we relocated our headquarters in October 2006 to a larger facility that will enable us to centralize all of our San Francisco employees in one building. However, if we are unable to expand our workforce sufficiently or to effectively manage our expanding operations, we may be unable to meet demand and exploit potential market opportunities and our current or future business could be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, we may not be able to complete implementation projects for term licenses in a timely or cost-effective manner, which will cause us to defer all of the contract revenues to a subsequent quarter or incur more costs by deploying higher cost external contractors to complete projects. Conversely, if we expand our operations and workforce too rapidly in anticipation of increased demand for our products, and such demand does not materialize at the pace at which we expect, the rate of increase in our cost of revenues or operating expenses may exceed the rate of increase, if any, in our revenues. Moreover, if we experience another slowdown in the investment management software market in which we operate similar to the one experienced in 2002, we may not be able to scale back our operating expenses in a sufficiently timely or effective manner. In that event, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. We Must Retain and Recruit Key Employees We believe that our future success is dependent on the continued employment of our senior management and our ability to identify, attract, motivate and retain qualified technical, sales and other personnel. Members of our executive management team have acquired specialized knowledge and skills with respect to Advent. We need technical resources such as our product development engineers to develop new products and enhance existing products; we rely upon sales personnel to sell our products and services and maintain healthy business relationships; we must recruit professional service consultants to support the anticipated increase in product implementations; we must hire client services personnel to provide technical support to our growing installed base of customers; and we must attract and retain financial and accounting personnel to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Therefore, we need to identify, attract, motivate and retain such employees with the requisite education, backgrounds and industry experience. However, experienced personnel in the information technology industry are in high demand and competition for their talents is intense, especially in the San Francisco Bay Area where the majority of our employees are located. For example, in February 2007, one of our executives resigned from the Company to become the Chief Executive Officer of an internet company. We have relied on our ability to grant equity compensation as one mechanism for recruiting and retaining such highly skilled personnel. Recently enacted accounting regulations requiring the expensing of equity compensation impair our ability to provide these incentives without reporting significant compensation costs. 17 We may also choose to create additional performance and retention incentives in order to retain our employees, including the granting of additional stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights, performance shares or performance units to employees or issuing incentive cash bonuses. Such incentives may either dilute our existing stockholder base or result in unforeseen operating expenses which may have a material adverse effect on our operating results, which may result in our stock price falling; or may not be valued as highly by our employees which may create retention issues. We Face Challenges in Expanding Our International Operations We market and sell our products in the United States and, to a lesser extent, internationally. In 1999, we entered into a distributor relationship with Advent Europe GmbH, an independent distributor of our products in selected European markets. In November 2001, we acquired the Norwegian, Swedish, and Danish subsidiaries of this independent distributor. In September 2002, we purchased their Greek subsidiary (“Advent Hellas”), which we subsequently sold in the fourth quarter of 2005; in May 2003, we purchased their Dutch subsidiary; and in May 2004, we purchased their remaining subsidiaries in the United Kingdom and Switzerland and certain assets of Advent Europe. To further expand our international operations, we would need to establish additional locations, acquire other businesses or enter into additional distribution relationships in other parts of the world. Any further expansion of our existing international operations and entry into new international markets could require significant management attention and financial resources. We cannot be certain that establishing businesses in other countries will produce the desired levels of revenues, such as in the case of Advent Hellas which produced less than satisfactory revenues and profitability before its sale in 2005. We currently have limited experience in developing localized versions of our products and marketing and distributing our products internationally. In addition, international operations are subject to other inherent risks, including: · the impact of recessions in economies outside the United States; · greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; · difficulties in successfully adapting our products to the language, regulatory and technology standards of other countries; · difficulties in and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; · reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; · potentially adverse tax consequences; and · political and economic instability. The revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities of our international subsidiaries are primarily denominated in local currencies. We have not historically undertaken foreign exchange hedging transactions to cover potential foreign currency exposure. Future fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect revenues and accounts receivable from international sales and the U.S. dollar value of our foreign subsidiaries’ revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. Our international service revenues and certain license revenues from our European subsidiaries are generally denominated in local foreign currencies. 18 Difficulties in Integrating Our Acquisitions and Expanding Into New Business Areas Have Impacted and Could Continue to Adversely Impact Our Business and We Face Risks Associated with Potential Acquisitions, Investments, Divestitures and Expansion From 2001 through the middle of 2003, our strategy focused on growth through the acquisition of additional complementary businesses. During those years, we made five major acquisitions including Kinexus Corporation, Techfi Corporation and Advent Outsource Data Management LLC, and also acquired all of the common stock of five of our European distributor’s subsidiaries. In addition, we purchased our European distributor’s remaining two subsidiaries in the United Kingdom and Switzerland in May 2004. More recently, in December 2006, we acquired East Circle Solutions, Inc., a developer of investment billing solutions to integrate their product into our software offerings. The complex process of integrating our acquisitions has required and will continue to require significant resources, particularly in light of our relative inexperience in integrating acquisitions. Integrating these acquisitions in the past has been time-consuming, expensive and disruptive to our business. This integration process has strained our managerial resources, resulting in the diversion of these resources from our core business objectives and may do so in the future. Failure to achieve the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions or to successfully integrate the operations of these entities has harmed and could potentially harm our business, results of operations and cash flows in future periods. For example, in the first quarter of 2003, we closed our Australian subsidiary because it failed to perform at a satisfactory profit level and similarly in the fourth quarter of 2005, we disposed of our Advent Hellas subsidiary because of less than satisfactory profitability. In addition, as we have expanded into new business areas and built new offerings through strategic alliances and internal development, as well as acquisitions, some of this expansion has required significant management time and resources without generating required revenues. We have had difficulty and may continue to have difficulty creating demand for such offerings. For example, demand for our Techfi product line was significantly lower than expected and thus we discontinued certain products within our Techfi product line in September 2004. As a result, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $3.4 million in the third quarter of 2004 to write-off the carrying value of certain Techfi-related intangible assets. Furthermore, we may face other unanticipated costs from our acquisitions, such as the disputes involving earn-out and incentive compensation amounts, similar to those we have experienced with our Kinexus and Advent Outsource acquisitions. We may make additional acquisitions of complementary companies, products or technologies in the future. In addition, we periodically evaluate the performance of all our products and services and may sell or discontinue current products and services. Failure to achieve the anticipated benefits of any future acquisition or divestiture could harm our business, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, we may have to incur debt, write-off investments, infrastructure costs or other assets, incur severance liabilities, write-off impaired goodwill or other intangible assets or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisitions. The issuance of equity securities could dilute our existing stockholders’ ownership. Finally, we may not identify suitable businesses to acquire or negotiate acceptable terms for future acquisitions. Impairment of Investments Could Harm Our Results of Operations We have made and may make future investments in privately held companies, many of which are considered in the start-up or development stages. These investments, which we classify as other assets on our consolidated balance sheets, are inherently risky, as the market for the technologies or products these companies have under development is typically in the early stages and may never materialize. The value of the investment in these companies is influenced by many factors, including the operating effectiveness of these companies, the overall health of these companies’ industries, the strength of the private equity markets and general market conditions. Due to these and other factors, we have previously determined, and may in the future determine, that the value of these investments is impaired, which has caused and 19 would cause us to write down the carrying value of these investments, such as the write-down of our investments of $2.0 million and $13.5 million in fiscal 2003 and 2002, respectively. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that future investment, license, fixed asset or other asset write-downs will not occur. If future write-downs do occur, they could harm our business and results of operations. Information We Provide to Investors Is Accurate Only as of the Date We Disseminate It From time to time, we may publicly disseminate forward-looking information or guidance in compliance with Regulation FD. This information or guidance represents our outlook only as of the date we disseminate it, and we do not undertake to update such information or guidance. Our Stock Price May Fluctuate Significantly Like many companies in the technology and emerging growth sector, our stock price may be subject to wide fluctuations, particularly during times of high market volatility. If net revenues or earnings in any quarter or our financial guidance for future periods fail to meet the investment community’s expectations, our stock price is likely to decline. In addition, our stock price is affected by trends in the financial services sector and by broader market trends unrelated to our performance. For instance, in the event of increased hostilities abroad or terrorist attacks on U.S. soil, there could be increased market volatility, which could negatively impact our stock price. If Our Relationship with Financial Times/Interactive Data Is Terminated, Our Business May Be Harmed Many of our clients use our proprietary interface to electronically retrieve pricing and other data from Financial Times/Interactive Data (“FTID”). FTID pays us a commission based on their revenues from providing this data to our clients. Our software products have been customized to be compatible with their system and this software would need to be redesigned if their services were unavailable for any reason. Termination of our agreement with FTID would require at least two years notice by either us or them, or 90 days in the case of material breach. Our revenue could be adversely impacted if our relationship with FTID was terminated or their services were unavailable to our clients for any reason. If We Are Unable to Protect Our Intellectual Property We May Be Subject to Increased Competition that Could Seriously Harm Our Business Our success depends significantly upon our proprietary technology. We currently rely on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. We have registered trademarks for many of our products and services and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional trademarks as appropriate. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and with our resellers and customers. We seek to protect our software, documentation and other written materials under trade secret and copyright laws, which afford only limited protection and we do not have any patents. Despite these efforts, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy certain portions of our products or to reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information. In addition, we cannot be certain that others will not develop substantially equivalent or superseding proprietary technology, or that equivalent products will not be marketed in competition with our products, thereby substantially reducing the value of our proprietary rights. We cannot be sure that we will develop proprietary products or technologies that are patentable, that any patent, if issued, would provide us with any competitive advantages or would not be challenged by third parties, or that the patents of others will not adversely affect our ability to do business. Litigation may be necessary to protect our proprietary technology which may be time-consuming and expensive. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of 20 the United States. We cannot be sure that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products or design around any patent that may be issued to us or other intellectual property rights of ours. If We Infringe the Intellectual Property Rights of Others, We May Incur Additional Costs or Be Prevented from Selling Our Products and Services We cannot be certain that our products or services do not infringe the intellectual property rights of others. As a result, we may be subject to litigation and claims, including claims of infringement of patents, copyrights and other intellectual property rights of third parties that would be time-consuming and costly to resolve. If we discovered that our products or services violated the intellectual property rights of third parties, we may have to make substantial changes to our products or services or obtain licenses from such third parties. We might not be able to obtain such licenses on favorable terms or at all, and we may be unable to change our products successfully or in a timely manner. Failure to resolve an infringement matter successfully or in a timely manner, would force us to incur significant costs, including damages, redevelopment costs, diversion of management’s attention and satisfaction of indemnification obligations that we have with our clients, as well as prevent us from selling certain products or services. Catastrophic Events Could Adversely Affect Our Business Our operations are exposed to potential disruption by fire, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failure, and other events beyond our control. Additionally, we are vulnerable to interruption caused by terrorist incidents. For example, our facilities in New York were temporarily closed due to the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. Immediately after the terrorist attacks, our clients who were located in the World Trade Center area were concentrating on disaster recovery rather than licensing additional software components, while the grounding of transportation impeded our professional services employees’ ability to travel to client sites. Additionally, during the temporary closure of the U.S. stock markets, our clients did not use our market data services. Our corporate headquarters are located in the San Francisco Bay Area, which is a region with significant seismic activity. Earthquakes such as that experienced in 1989 could disrupt our business. Such disruptions could affect our ability to sell and deliver products and services and other critical functions of our business. Further, such disruptions could cause instability in the financial markets upon which we depend. Further, terrorist acts, conflicts or wars may cause damage or disruption to our customers. The potential for future attacks, the national and international responses to attacks or perceived threats to national security and other actual or potential conflicts or wars, including the ongoing crisis in the Middle East, have created many economic and political uncertainties. Although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, they could unsettle the financial markets or result in a decline in information technology spending, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues. Undetected Software Errors or Failures Found in New Products May Result in Loss of or Delay in Market Acceptance of Our Products that Could Seriously Harm Our Business Our products may contain undetected software errors or scalability limitations at any point in their lives, but particularly when first introduced, such as our APX product, or as new versions are released. Despite testing by us and by current and potential customers, errors may not be found in new products until after commencement of commercial shipments, resulting in a loss of or a delay in market acceptance, damage to our reputation, customer dissatisfaction and reductions in revenues and margins, any of which could seriously harm our business. Additionally, our agreements with customers that attempt to limit our exposure to liability claims may not be enforceable in jurisdictions where we operate. 21 Changes in Securities Laws and Regulations May Increase Our Costs The Sarbanes-Oxley Act (“the Act”) of 2002 required changes in some of our corporate governance and securities disclosure and/or compliance practices. As part of the Act’s requirements, the SEC has enacted new rules on a variety of subjects, and the Nasdaq Stock Market has enacted new corporate governance listing requirements. These developments have increased and may in the future increase our accounting and legal compliance costs and could also expose us to additional liability if we fail to comply with these new rules and reporting requirements. In fiscal 2006 and 2005, we incurred approximately $1.3 million and $1.8 million, respectively, in Sarbanes-Oxley related expenses consisting of external consulting costs and auditor fees, and the Company anticipates similarly spending a significant amount for its 2007 compliance activities. In addition, such developments may make retention and recruitment of qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, or as executive officers, more difficult. We continue to evaluate and monitor regulatory and legislative developments and cannot reliably estimate the timing or magnitude of all costs we may incur as a result of the Act or other related legislation or regulation. Changes in, or Interpretations of, Accounting Principles Could Result in Unfavorable Accounting Charges We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These principles are subject to interpretation by us, the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create accounting principles. A change in these principles or a change in the interpretations of these principles, can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even retroactively affect previously reported transactions. Our accounting principles that recently have been or may be affected include: · Software revenue recognition · Accounting for stock-based compensation · Accounting for income taxes · Accounting for business combinations and related goodwill In particular, in the first quarter of 2006, we adopted SFAS 123R which requires the measurement of all stock-based compensation to employees, including grants of employee stock options, restricted stock units and stock appreciation rights, using a fair-value-based method and the recording of such expense in our consolidated statements of operations. The adoption of SFAS 123R had a significant adverse effect on our results of operations. It will continue to significantly adversely affect our results of operations and may impact the way in which we conduct our business. If factors change and we employ different assumptions for estimating stock-based compensation expense in future periods or if we decide to use a different valuation model, the future periods may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the current period and could materially affect our operating income, net income and net income per share. We currently use the Black-Scholes option pricing model to determine the fair value of stock-based compensation awards and employee stock purchase plan shares. The Black-Scholes option pricing model was developed for use in estimating the fair value of traded options that have no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable, characteristics not present in our option grants and employee stock purchase plan shares. Existing valuation models, including the Black-Scholes and lattice binomial models, may not provide reliable measures of the fair values of our stock-based compensation. Consequently, there is a risk that our estimates of the fair values of our stock-based compensation awards on the grant dates may bear little resemblance to the actual values realized upon the exercise, expiration, early termination or forfeiture of those stock-based payments in the future. Certain stock-based payments, such as employee stock options, restricted stock units and stock appreciation rights, may expire worthless or otherwise result in 22 zero intrinsic value as compared to the fair values originally estimated on the grant date and reported in our consolidated financial statements. Alternatively, value may be realized from these instruments that are significantly higher than the fair values originally estimated on the grant date and reported in our financial statements. There currently is no market-based mechanism or other practical application to verify the reliability and accuracy of the estimates stemming from these valuation models, nor is there a means to compare and adjust the estimates to actual values. See Note 9, “Stock-Based Compensation”, to the consolidated financial statements for further information regarding the adoption of SFAS 123R. Potential Changes in Securities Laws and Regulation Governing the Investment Industry’s Use of Soft Dollars May Reduce Our Revenues As of December 31, 2006, approximately 400 of our clients utilize trading commissions (“soft dollar arrangements”) to pay for software products and services. During fiscal 2006 and 2005, the total value of Advent products and services paid with soft dollars was approximately 5% and 6% of our total billings. Such soft dollar arrangements could be impacted by changes in the regulations governing those arrangements. During the fourth quarter of 2006, we completed the wind down of the “soft dollar” business of our SEC-registered broker/dealer subsidiary, Second Street Securities, as it no longer fits with our corporate strategy. Second Street Securities offered our customers the ability to pay for Advent products and other third party products and services through brokerage commissions and other fee-based arrangements. We will continue to allow clients to utilize soft dollar arrangements to pay for Advent software products and services through other independent broker/dealers. In July 2006, the SEC published an Interpretive Release that provides guidance on money managers’ use of client commissions to pay for brokerage and research services under the “soft dollars” safe harbor, which is set forth in Section 28(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Interpretive Release clarifies that money managers may use client commissions to pay only for eligible brokerage and research services. Among other matters, the Interpretive Release states that eligible brokerage includes those products and services that relate to the execution of the trade from the point at which the money manager communicates with the broker-dealer for the purpose of transmitting an order for execution, through the point at which funds or securities are delivered or credited to the advised account. In addition, for “mixed-use” items (such as trade order management systems) that are partly eligible and partly ineligible, the Interpretive Release states that money managers must make a reasonable allocation of client commissions in accordance with the eligible and ineligible uses of the items. Based on this new guidance, our customers may change their method of paying for certain Advent products or services from soft to hard dollars, and as a result seek to reduce their usage of these products or services in order to avoid increasing expenses, which could cause our revenues to decrease. Covenants in Our Credit Facility Agreement Could Adversely Affect our Financial Condition In February 2007, we entered into a senior secured facility agreement which provides us with a revolving line of credit up to an aggregate amount of $75 million. Our continued ability to borrow under our credit facility is subject to compliance with certain financial and non-financial covenants. The financial covenant is limited to a maximum ratio of senior debt to adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA). Our failure to comply with such covenants could cause default under the agreement, and we may then be required to repay such debt with capital from other sources. Under those circumstances, other sources of capital may not be available to us, or be available only on unfavorable terms. 23 Security Risks May Harm Our Business The secure transmission of confidential information over public networks is essential to commerce and communications, particularly in the market in which Advent operates. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments could result in compromises or breaches of our security systems. Anyone who circumvents our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our services or operations. In addition, computer viruses or software programs that disable or impair computers could be introduced into our systems or those of our customers or other third parties, which could disrupt or make our systems inaccessible to customers. Our security measures may be inadequate to prevent security breaches, exposing us to a risk of loss, litigation and other possible liabilities, as well as possibly requiring us to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. If We Fail to Maintain an Effective System of Internal Control, We May Not be Able to Accurately Report Our Financial Results or Our Filings May Not be Timely. As a Result, Current and Potential Stockholders Could Lose Confidence in Our Financial Reporting, Which Would Harm Our Business and the Trading Price of Our Stock Effective internal control is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our business and operating results could be harmed. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal control that need improvement including control deficiencies that may constitute material weaknesses. For example, as of December 31, 2005, the Company did not maintain effective controls over the accounting for income taxes, including the determination of deferred income tax liabilities and the related income tax provision. This control deficiency resulted in adjustments to the fourth quarter of 2004 and 2005 financial statements and a restatement of the Company’s financial statements for each of the first three quarters of fiscal 2004 and 2005. The Company also did not maintain effective controls over the accuracy, presentation and disclosure of the pro forma stock-based compensation expense in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles as of December 31, 2005. As a result of this control deficiency, the Company’s disclosure of stock-based compensation expense for fiscal 2003 and 2004 and first three quarters of 2004 and 2005 were revised. During 2006, we have implemented controls and procedures to improve our internal control over financial reporting and have determined that we have completed the remediation of the prior year material weaknesses. Consequently, management has concluded that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2006. We do not expect that our internal control over financial reporting will prevent all errors or fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. Over time, controls may become inadequate because changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may occur. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Any failure to implement or maintain improvements in our internal control over financial reporting, or difficulties encountered in the implementation of these improvements in our controls, could cause significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls and consequently cause us to fail to 24 meet our reporting obligations. Any failure to implement or maintain required new or improved internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative impact on the trading price of our stock. Our Ability to Conclude that a Control Deficiency is Not a Material Weakness or that an Accounting Error Does Not Require a Restatement is Limited, in Part, by Our Level of Pre-Tax Income (Loss) Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our management is required to assess the impact of control deficiencies based upon both quantitative and qualitative factors, and depending upon that analysis we classify such identified deficiencies as either a control deficiency, significant deficiency or a material weakness. Our current expectation is that our fiscal 2007 pre-tax income will range from breakeven to a modest amount, due primarily to the impact of expensing for stock-based compensation, the short-term negative impact on net revenues from our transition to a term license model, and the investment in the development and growth of our business. One element of our quantitative analysis of any control deficiency is its actual or potential financial impact, and any impact that is greater than 5% of our pre-tax income (loss) in any quarter may be more likely to result in that deficiency being determined to be a significant deficiency or a material weakness. Accordingly, our projection of fiscal 2007 pre-tax income at a breakeven level to a modest profit will make it statistically less likely for us and our independent registered public accounting firm to determine that a control deficiency is not a material weakness. In addition, if management or our independent registered public accountants identify errors in our interim or annual financial statements during 2007, it is statistically more likely that such errors may meet the quantitative threshold established under Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 99, “Materiality”, that could, depending upon the complete qualitative and quantitative analysis, result in our having to restate previously issued financial statements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 25 