ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other information contained and incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. If any of the following risks occurs, our business, operating results or financial condition would likely suffer, and the market price for our securities could decline. Risks Related to Our Business General economic conditions may affect our results. The global economy has been undergoing a period of unprecedented volatility, which has affected the demand for our equipment and services. A prolonged period of economic decline could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The Company may experience a decrease in purchases or usage of our products and services if increased unemployment leads to lower utilization of telecommunications and conferencing services. Customers may stop or decrease purchasing due to efforts to reduce inventory and conserve cash. The Company may also experience business disruptions due to an inability to obtain equipment, parts and supplies from suppliers if fragile supply businesses fail. We depend on a limited number of customers who are able to exert a high degree of influence over us and loss of a major customer could adversely impact our business. We have and may continue to depend on U.S. telephone companies for the majority of our revenues in our CNS and OSP equipment segments. The telephone companies and our other customers are significantly larger than we are and are able to exert a high degree of influence over us. These customers may often be permitted to reschedule orders without penalty. Even if demand for our products is high, the telephone companies have sufficient bargaining power to demand low prices and other terms and conditions that may materially adversely affect our business and operating results. ConferencePlus’ customer base is relatively concentrated; its top twenty-five customers represent a large portion of total revenue and income. ConferencePlus’ customers continually undergo review and evaluation of their conferencing and meeting services to evaluate the merits of alternative outsourcing or of bringing those services in-house rather than outsourcing them. There can be no assurance in the future that ConferencePlus’ customers will not develop their own internal conferencing and meeting services. ConferencePlus must continually provide higher quality, lower cost services to maintain and grow its customer base. A loss of a major account could have a material adverse effect on ConferencePlus. Overall sales and product mix sold to our large customers have fluctuated in the past and could vary in the future resulting in significant fluctuations in quarterly operating results which may adversely impact our stock price. We have long-term customer pricing contracts with a limited amount of coverage by way of long-term contracts or arrangements with suppliers, which could adversely affect our ability, with certainty or economically, to purchase components and technologies used in our products. Although we have long-term customer pricing contracts, we have few long-term contracts or arrangements with our suppliers. We may not be able to obtain components at competitive prices, in sufficient quantities or under other commercially reasonable terms. If we enter into a high-volume or long-term supply arrangement and subsequently decide that we cannot use the products or services provided for in the supply arrangement then our business would also be harmed. We enter into short-term contracts with our suppliers in the form of purchase orders. Purchase orders are often non-cancellable within contractual time periods. These purchase orders are issued to vendors based on forecasted customer demand. If the forecasted demand is materially incorrect, we may find that we cannot use the products ordered, and then our business would also be harmed. Our lack of backlog may affect our ability to adjust for unexpected changes in customer demand. OSP customers often place orders for product within the month of their requested delivery date. We therefore do not have a material backlog (or known quantity) of unfilled orders, and our revenues in any quarter are substantially dependent on orders booked or orders becoming non-cancellable in that quarter. Our expense levels and inventory - 10 - Table of Contents commitments are based on anticipated customer demand and are relatively fixed in the short term. Therefore, we may be unable to cancel purchase orders with our suppliers or adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall of orders. Accordingly, any significant shortfall of demand in relation to our expectations or any material delay of customer orders would have an immediate adverse impact on our business and operating results. Conversely, if we order too little product to meet customer demand, we may have insufficient inventory which could result in unplanned expediting costs or lost revenue opportunities, either of which could have an adverse impact on our financial results. We may experience delays in the development and deployment of new products. Many of our past sales have resulted from our ability to anticipate changes in technology, industry standards and service provider service offerings, and to develop and introduce new and enhanced products and services. Our continued ability to adapt to such changes will be a significant factor in maintaining or improving our competitive position and our prospects for growth. There can be no assurance that we will successfully introduce new products on a timely basis or achieve sales of new products in the future. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will have the financial and product design resources necessary to continue to successfully develop new products or to otherwise successfully respond to changing technology standards and service provider service offerings. If we fail to deploy new products on a timely basis, then our product sales will decrease and our competitive position and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. Our customers have lengthy purchase cycles that affect our ability to sell our products. Prior to selling products to service providers, we must undergo lengthy approval and purchase processes. Evaluation can take as little as a few months for products that vary slightly from existing products or up to a year or more for products based on new technologies or utilized for new service offerings. Accordingly, we are continually submitting successive generations of our current products as well as new products to our customers for approval. The requirement that service providers obtain FCC or state regulatory approval for most new telecommunications and broadband services prior to their implementation has in the past delayed the approval process. Such delays in the future could have a material adverse affect on our business and operating results. While we have been successful in the past in obtaining product approvals from our customers, there is no guarantee that such approvals or that ensuing sales of such products will continue to occur. We are dependent on our independent offshore outsource manufacturing partners to manufacture, assemble and test our products. If these companies do not meet their commitments to us, it could adversely impact our ability to meet the delivery requirements of our customers, which could result in lost business. We are dependent on offshore suppliers in Asia. Although there is no unique capability with these suppliers, any failure or business disruption by these suppliers to meet delivery commitments would cause us to delay shipments and potentially lose revenue. We rely on subcontractors in Asia for assembly and testing of and to purchase raw materials used in such assemblies. The reliance on third-party subcontractors for assembly of our products involves several risks, including the unavailability of, or interruptions in access to, certain process technologies and reduced control over product quality, delivery schedules, transportation, manufacturing yields, and costs. These risks may be exacerbated by economic or political uncertainties, terrorist actions, or by natural pandemics or other disasters in countries in which our subcontractors or their subcontractors are located. Contracts with our outsource manufacturing partners are expressed in U.S. dollars, but volatility in foreign currency rates could increase our costs. ConferencePlus maintains call centers and bridging equipment in the United States, Ireland, England, Sweden and Malaysia. If any of the call centers or bridging equipment were unavailable due to natural or other disaster, then our business could be harmed. - 11 - Table of Contents Because ConferencePlus conducts a substantial amount of business via the internet, its systems can be the target of cyber-attacks or hacking for the purpose of gaining access to information or fraudulently using the services. Such attacks, if not properly detected and defended against, can result in business interruption and other harm to the business. Due to the rapid pace of technological change and volatile customer demand, our products may become obsolete and could cause us to incur charges for excess and obsolete inventory which would materially harm our business. The telecommunications industry is subject to rapid technological change and volatile customer demands, which could result in inventory obsolescence or excess inventory. As a result, we have in the past and may in the future devote disproportionate resources to a product that we ultimately may not sell or have to sell for a loss. If we incur substantial inventory impairments that we are not able to recover because of changing market conditions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our products and services face intense competition. Our failure to compete successfully could materially affect our profitability. Because we are significantly smaller than many of our competitors, we may lack the financial, marketing, technical and other resources needed to increase our market share. Many of our competitors are much larger than we are and may be able to offer a wider array of products and services required for a service provider’s business than we do. Competitors may succeed in establishing technologically advanced products and services with more favorable pricing or may otherwise gain an advantage over our products which would result in lost business that would adversely impact our profitability. Because of intense competition, we may price our products and services at low margins in order to win or maintain business. Low margins from our sales of products and services could materially and adversely affect our profitability and ability to implement our business goals. We are dependent on third-party technology, the loss of which would harm our business. We rely on third parties for technology in our products and to deliver our services. Consequently, the Company must rely upon third parties to develop and to introduce technologies which enhance the Company’s current products and services and enable the Company, in turn, to develop its own products and provide services on a timely and cost-effective basis to meet changing customer needs and technological trends in the telecommunications industry. Were the Company to lose the ability to obtain needed technology from a supplier, or were that technology no longer available to the Company under reasonable terms and conditions, the Company’s business and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Potential product recalls, service failures and warranty expenses could adversely affect our profitability. Our products and services are required to meet rigorous standards imposed by our customers, and we warrant the performance of these products and services. In addition, our supply contracts with our major customers typically require us to accept returns of products within certain time frames and indemnify such customers against certain liabilities arising out of the use of our products or services. Complex products such as those offered by us may contain undetected defects or failures when first introduced or as new versions are released. Despite our testing of products and our comprehensive quality control program, there is no guarantee that our products will not suffer from defects or other deficiencies. If product defects, recalls, warranty returns, service failures, indemnification or liquidated-damage claims exceed our anticipated costs for these items, our business could be harmed. Such claims and the associated negative publicity could result in the loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products and services, and could affect our product and service sales, our customer relationships, and our profitability. - 12 - Table of Contents We are dependent on sole or limited source suppliers, the loss of which would harm our business. Components used in our products may be currently available from only one source or a limited number of suppliers. Our inabilities to obtain sufficient key components or to develop alternative sources for key components as required, could result in delays or reductions in product deliveries, and consequently severely harm our customer relationships and our business. Furthermore, additional sole-source components may be incorporated into our future products, thereby increasing our supplier risks. If any of our sole-source suppliers delay or halt production of any of their components, or fail to supply their components on commercially reasonable terms, then our business and operating results would be harmed. In the event that these suppliers discontinue the manufacture of materials used in our products, we would be forced to incur the time and expense of finding a new supplier if available or to modify our products in such a way that such materials were not necessary, which could result in increased manufacturing costs. We may be subject to litigation that could be costly to defend and could impact our profitability. Our products and services use third party and open source intellectual property. The telecommunications industry is characterized by the existence of an increasing number of patents and frequent litigation based on allegations of patent and other intellectual property infringement. From time to time we receive communications from third parties alleging infringement of exclusive patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to us. Such litigation, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial costs and thus adversely impact our profitability. We could face securities litigation in the future that could result in the payment of substantial damages or settlement costs in excess of our insurance coverage. Any adverse outcome could harm our business. Even if we were to prevail in any such litigation, we could incur substantial legal costs and management’s attention and resources could be diverted from our business which could cause our business to suffer. We will not be able to successfully compete, develop and sell products and services if we fail to retain key personnel and hire additional key personnel. Because of our need to continually compete for customer business, our success is dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified technical, marketing, sales and management personnel. To remain competitive, we must maintain top management talent, employees who are involved in product development and testing and employees who have developed strong customer relationships. Because of the high demand for these types of employees, it may be difficult to retain existing key employees and attract new key employees. In addition, we do not have non-compete contracts with most of our employees. Our inability to attract and retain additional key employees could harm our ability to successfully sell existing products and services, develop new products and services, and implement our business goals. Industry consolidation and divestiture and could make competing more difficult. Consolidation of companies offering competing products and services is occurring through acquisitions, joint ventures and licensing arrangements involving our competitors, our customers and our customers’ competitors. Our customers have been divesting certain territories to other telecommunication service providers. The acquiring companies often use competitor products in their legacy business. We are often required to formally bid to retain existing business or obtain new business in the acquirer’s territory. We cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to compete successfully in an increasingly consolidated telecommunications industry or retain or win business when existing customers divest portions of their business to others. Any heightened competitive pressures that we may face may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and result of operations. - 13 - Table of Contents We may engage in future acquisitions or fund raising activity that could impact our financial results or stock price. We expect to continue to review potential acquisitions and we may acquire or make investments in businesses, products or technologies in the future. Any substantial future acquisitions or investments would present a number of risks that could harm our business including: • business integration issues; • disruption to our ongoing and acquired business; • difficultly realizing the intended benefits of the transaction; and • impairment of assets related to resulting goodwill and acquired intangibles. We expect consideration for potential acquisitions or investments to be paid in cash, common stock or a combination of both. If consideration is paid in common stock, this would dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders. Availability of our deferred tax assets could be limited by an ownership change as defined by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, or by a change in the tax code. We have significant deferred tax assets, primarily in the form of net operating losses, which are generally available to offset future taxable income. A change in ownership, as defined by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, could reduce the availability of those tax assets. In addition, some tax jurisdictions such as Illinois and Florida have suspended the use of net operating losses to offset future taxable income for a period of time. Additional federal or state tax code changes could further limit our use of deferred tax assets and harm our business and our investors. We have agreed to indemnify NETGEAR against specified losses in connection with the sale of certain assets of the CNS business. Under the terms of the Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of March 17, 2011, we have agreed to indemnify NETGEAR following the closing of the sale of certain assets of the CNS business against specified losses in connection with the CNS business and generally retain responsibility for various legal liabilities that may accrue. We have also made representations and warranties to NETGEAR about the condition of CNS, including matters relating to intellectual property, employee matters and environmental laws. Following the closing, if NETGEAR makes an indemnification claim because it has suffered a loss or a third party has commenced an action against NETGEAR, we may incur expenses to resolve NETGEAR’s claim or to defend NETGEAR and ourselves against the third party action, which expense could harm our operating results. In addition, such indemnity claims may divert management attention from our continuing business. It may also be difficult to determine whether a claim from a third party stemmed from actions taken by us or by NETGEAR and we may expend substantial resources trying to determine which party has responsibility for the claim. Our services are affected by uncertain government regulation and changes in current or future laws or regulations could restrict the way we operate our business. The telecommunications industry, including most of our customers, is subject to regulation from federal and state agencies, including the FCC and various state public utility and service commissions. While most such regulations do not affect us directly, the effects of regulations on our customers may adversely impact our business and operating results. For example, FCC regulatory policies affecting the availability of telephone company services and other terms on which telephone companies conduct their business may impede our penetration of local access markets, and/or make the markets less financially attractive. Risks Related to our Common Stock We have been and could be the subject of future investigation by the SEC or other governmental authorities that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock. In the past, the SEC conducted an investigation regarding events and circumstances surrounding trading in our securities. In August 2009, the SEC informed us that it had completed this investigation without any enforcement action. In the event that a future investigation by the SEC or other governmental authorities leads to significant legal expense or to action against the Company or its directors and officers our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock may be adversely impacted. - 14 - Table of Contents Our principal stockholders can exercise significant influence that could discourage transactions involving a change of control and may affect your ability to receive a premium for Class A Common Stock that you purchase. As of May 13, 2011, as trustees of a voting trust, dated February 23, 1994 (the “Voting Trust”), containing common stock held for the benefit of the Penny family, Robert C. Penny III and Robert W. Foskett have the exclusive power to vote over 48.0% of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of our common stock. In addition, members of the Penny family who are beneficiaries under this Voting Trust are parties to a stock transfer restriction agreement which prohibits the beneficiaries from transferring any Class B Common Stock or their beneficial interests in the Voting Trust without first offering such Class B Common Stock to the other Penny family members. Certain Penny family members also own or are beneficiaries of trusts that own shares outside of the Voting Trust. As trustees of the Voting Trust and other trusts, Messrs. Penny and Foskett control 51.6% of the stock vote. Consequently, we are effectively under the control of Messrs. Penny and Foskett, as trustees, who can effectively control the election of all of the directors and determine the outcome of most corporate transactions or other matters submitted to the stockholders for approval. Such control may have the effect of discouraging transactions involving an actual or potential change of control, including transactions in which the holders of Class A Common Stock might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over the then-current market price. On May 31, 2011, the Company purchased 1,000,000 shares from the Penny family (see note 15 Subsequent Events). ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 