ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other information contained and incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. If any of the following risks occurs, our business, operating results or financial condition would likely suffer, and the market price for our securities could decline. General economic conditions may affect our results. The global economy is currently undergoing a period of unprecedented volatility, which has affected the demand for our equipment and services. A prolonged period of economic decline could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Possible effects of current and future adverse economic conditions on our business include: decrease in purchases or usage of our products and services if increased unemployment leads to lower utilization of telecommunications, internet services and conferencing services. Customers may stop or decrease purchasing due to efforts to reduce inventory and conserve cash. The Company may also experience business disruptions due to an inability to obtain equipment, parts and supplies from suppliers if marginal supply businesses fail. We have incurred losses in the past and may incur losses in the future. We incurred losses in the fiscal years ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 and historically in fiscal years through 2002. The Company had an accumulated deficit of $319.5 million as of March 31, 2009. We believe that our future profitability will depend on: • creating sustainable product and service sales opportunities; • lowering product costs through design and manufacturing enhancements and volume efficiencies; • developing new and enhanced products and services; • diversifying the Company’s existing customer base. In addition, we expect to continue to evaluate new product opportunities. As a result, we will continue to invest in research and development and sales and marketing, which could adversely affect our short-term operating results. We can offer no assurances that we will become profitable again in the future. Our stock price is volatile and could drop unexpectedly. Like many technology companies, our stock price has demonstrated and may continue to demonstrate volatility as valuations, trading volume and prices move significantly. This volatility may result in a material decline in the market price of our securities, and may have little relationship to our financial results or prospects. Our Class A Common Stock price has experienced substantial volatility in the past and is likely to remain volatile in the future due to factors such as: • our actual and anticipated quarterly and annual operating results; • variations between our actual results and analyst and investor expectations; • announcements by us or others on developments affecting our business; • lack of success on winning new customers or the loss of an existing customer; • investor and analyst perceptions of our company and comparable public companies; • future sales of debt or equity securities; • the activities of short sellers and risk arbitrageurs regardless of our performance; • conditions and trends in the data communications and internet-related industries; • low trading volumes in our Class A common stock. Many of the factors listed above are not within our control. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the subject of securities class action litigation. -13- Our Class A Common Stock could be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Select Market if our stock price continues to trade below $1.00 per share. NASDAQ has established certain standards for the continued listing of a security on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. The standards for continued listing include, among other things, that the minimum bid price for the listed securities be at least $1.00 per share. Under these rules, a security is considered deficient if it fails to achieve at least a $1.00 closing bid price for a period of 30 consecutive business days. On August 22, 2008, we received a notification from the Listing Qualifications Department of NASDAQ that the bid price for our Class A Common Stock had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive trading days in conflict with the NASDAQ rules for continued listing. NASDAQ has suspended the enforcement of the minimum closing bid price requirement until July 20, 2009, and as a result, the period during which we have to regain compliance has been extended to November 23, 2009. NASDAQ may permit us to transfer the listing of our Class A Common Stock to the NASDAQ Capital Market if we satisfy the requirements for initial listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market, other than for the minimum bid price requirement. If our application for transfer is approved, we would have an additional 180 calendar days to comply with the minimum bid price rule in order to remain on the NASDAQ Capital Market. At this time, we cannot determine whether we will meet the initial listing requirements of the NASDAQ Capital Market or whether we will choose to transfer the listing of our Class A Common Stock to the NASDAQ Capital Market. For as long as NASDAQ's minimum bid price rule suspension remains in effect, NASDAQ will not delist our Class A common stock because of a low closing bid price. If the closing bid price of our Class A Common Stock continues to fail to meet NASDAQ's minimum closing bid price requirement, or if we otherwise fail to meet all other applicable NASDAQ requirements, NASDAQ may make a determination to delist our Class A common stock. Any such delisting could adversely affect the market liquidity of our Class A Common Stock and the market price of our Class A Common Stock could decrease. A delisting also could adversely affect our ability to obtain financing for our operations and/or result in a loss of confidence by investors, customers, suppliers or employees. We are the subject of an investigation by the SEC that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock. The SEC is conducting an investigation regarding events and circumstances surrounding trading in our securities. We have cooperated fully and intend to continue to cooperate fully with the SEC on its investigation. We cannot predict the outcome of the investigation. In the event that the investigation leads to SEC action against the Company, any current or former officer or director, our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock may be adversely impacted. If the SEC investigation continues for a prolonged period of time, it may have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock regardless of the ultimate outcome of the investigation. In addition, the SEC investigation has resulted in the incurrence of significant legal expenses and the diversion of management’s attention from our business, and this may continue, or increase, until the investigation is concluded. We have and could face securities class action litigation, which could significantly harm our business. In fiscal 2000, Westell Technologies, Inc. and certain of its officers and directors were named in consolidated class actions. Although these class actions were settled, we could face securities litigation in the future that could result in the payment of substantial damages or settlement costs in excess of our insurance coverage. Any adverse outcome could harm our business. Even if we were to prevail in any such litigation, we could incur substantial legal costs and management's attention and resources could be diverted from our business which could cause our business to suffer. Due to the rapid technological changes in our industry, our products may become obsolete and could cause us to incur charges for excess and obsolete inventory and materially harm our business. The telecommunications industry is subject to rapid technological change and volatile customer demands, which result in a short product commercial life before a product becomes obsolete. As a result, we have in the past and may in the future devote disproportionate resources to a product that has an unexpectedly short commercial life or we may have to write off excess and obsolete inventory, each of which would harm our operating results and financial condition and harm our business. From time to time, we may need to write off inventory as excess or obsolete. In the past, we have experienced such write-offs. If we incur substantial inventory expenses that we are -14- not able to recover because of changing market conditions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Pricing pressures on our products may affect our ability to be profitable in the future. We have and may in the future offer products and services based upon forward pricing, which is the pricing of products at or below production costs to take into account the expectation of large future volumes and corresponding reduction of costs. Forward pricing would cause us to incur lower margins on product or service sales unless we can reduce the associated costs. We believe that costs may decrease if: • more cost-effective technologies become available; • product design efficiencies and component integration are obtained; • we achieve economies of scale related to sufficiently high volumes. There is no guarantee that we will be able to secure significant additional business and reduce costs that we have factored into our forward-priced products or services. As a result, we could incur low or negative margins in connection with sales of forward-priced products or services even if our volumes increase. Low margins from our sales of products and services could result in fluctuations in our quarterly operating results and could materially and adversely affect our profitability and ability to implement our business goals. Our products and services face competition from other existing products, products and services under development and changing technology, and if we do not remain competitive, our business will suffer and we will not be profitable. The markets for our products and services are characterized by: • intense competition; • increasing competition; • rapid technological advances; • evolving industry standards; • changes in customer requirements; • frequent new product introductions and enhancements. New products introductions or changes in services offered by service providers could render our existing products and products under development obsolete and unmarketable. Specifically, the focus by service carriers to offer new VoIP, IPTV, video and FMC services will cause the current products they use from the Company to be replaced with newer, more compatible technology. Although the Company has product offerings which address these new services, the service providers may choose to obtain competitive products from suppliers other than the Company. Further, we believe that the domestic market for many of our traditional OSPlant Systems products is decreasing, and will likely continue to decrease, as high capacity digital transmission becomes less expensive and more widely deployed. Our future OSPlant Systems success will largely depend upon our ability to successfully market our outside plant products not only into its existing accounts but also into MSOs, wireless service providers, OEMs, and utility markets, in addition to developing new products that complement these market segments. In addition, a large majority of our CNS revenue comes from product offerings which enable telephone companies to deliver broadband services. Telephone companies also face competition in the delivery of broadband services from cable operators and wireless service providers. Although the Company has developed products for wireline fiber optic network operators, MSOs, and wireless service providers, if end-users increasingly obtain their high-speed data transmission services from these alternative providers, then the overall demand for our broadband products may be impaired. New products have been developed that can be used by a variety of broadband delivery mechanisms, but there are no assurances that the products will be successful. The conferencing services industry is facing increased competition and pricing pressures from existing competitors as well as new entrants. Existing competitors include large telecommunications companies, as well as large teleconferencing-focused providers. New products are also being introduced by telecommunications equipment manufacturers that enable conferencing through unified communications platforms. -15- To remain competitive, we must develop new products to meet the demands of these emerging transmission media and new local access network providers. Our business would be severely harmed if our products become obsolete or fail to gain widespread commercial acceptance due to competing products and technologies. Evolving industry standards may adversely affect our ability to sell our products and consequently harm our business. Industry-wide standardization organizations such as the International Telecommunications Union, the American National Standards Institute, the European Telecommunications Standards Institute, and the Internet Engineering Task Force and other standards bodies are responsible for determining much of the protocols, functionality and interoperability that our products must meet. Delay in the announcement or completion of industry standards would materially and adversely impact our product sales and would severely harm our business. Additionally, changes in those standards through subsequent revisions, and the introduction of competing standards or implementation specifications could result in confusion in the market and delay decisions regarding deployment of our products. We are dependent on third-party technology, the loss of which would harm our business. We rely on third parties to gain access to technologies that are used in our current products and in products under development. These technologies are included in hardware, silicon chips, software, and/or other forms. Consequently, the Company must rely upon third parties to develop and to introduce technologies which enhance the Company's current products and enable the Company, in turn, to develop its own products on a timely and cost-effective basis to meet changing customer needs and technological trends in the telecommunications industry. In these cases, the Company will typically obtain a contractual agreement with the technology supplier that gives the Company access to the technology for the intended lifecycle of the products which incorporate that technology. However, it is not always possible to obtain such an agreement. Additionally, technology suppliers to the Company may go out of business or may be subject to injunctions or natural disasters which prevent them from being able to supply that technology to the Company in the future. Additionally, the technology may evolve due to changes in industry standards or changes in the market, and the Company's contractual agreement may not necessarily give the Company rights to that evolved technology in the future. Were the Company to lose the ability to obtain needed technology from a supplier, or were that technology no longer available to the Company under reasonable terms and conditions, the Company’s business and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Any impairment in our relationships with the licensors of technologies used in our products would force us to find other technology providers on a timely basis or develop our own technology. There is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain the third-party technology necessary to continue to develop and introduce new and enhanced products, that we will obtain third-party technology on commercially reasonable terms or that we will be able to replace third-party technology in the event such technology becomes unavailable, obsolete or incompatible with future versions of our products. We would have severe difficulty competing if we cannot obtain or replace much of the third-party technology used in our products. Any absence or delay in obtaining third-party technology necessary for our products would materially adversely affect our business and operating results. We are dependent on sole or limited source suppliers, the loss of which would harm our business. Integrated circuits and other electronic components used in our products may be currently available from only one source or a limited number of suppliers. Our inabilities to obtain sufficient key components or to develop alternative sources for key components as required, could result in delays or reductions in product deliveries, and consequently severely harm our customer relationships and our business. Furthermore, additional sole-source components may be incorporated into our future products, thereby increasing our supplier risks. If any of our sole-source suppliers delay or halt production of any of their components, or fail to supply their components on commercially reasonable terms, then our business and operating results would be harmed. We may experience delays in the receipt of key components that could result in delays in related product deliveries. There is no guarantee that we will be able to continue to obtain sufficient quantities of key components as required, or that such components, if obtained, will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. In the event that these suppliers discontinued the manufacture of materials used in our products, we would be forced to incur the time and expense of finding a new supplier if available or modify our products in such a way that such materials were not necessary, which could result in increased manufacturing costs. -16- We have few long-term contracts or arrangements with suppliers, which could adversely affect our ability to purchase components and technologies used in our products. We have few long-term contracts or arrangements with our suppliers. We may not be able to obtain components at competitive prices, in sufficient quantities or under other commercially reasonable terms. If we enter into a high-volume or long-term supply arrangement and subsequently decide that we cannot use the products or services provided for in the supply arrangement, then our business would also be harmed. We enter into short-term contracts with our suppliers in the form of purchase orders. Purchase orders are often non-cancellable within contractual time periods. These purchase orders are issued to vendors based on forecasted demand. If the forecasted demand is materially incorrect, we may find that we cannot use the products ordered, and then our business would also be harmed. We are dependent on our independent offshore outsource manufacturing partners to manufacture, assemble and test our products. If these companies do not meet their commitments to us, it could adversely impact our ability to meet the delivery requirements of our customers. In fiscal year 2008, the Company moved substantially all of the manufacturing of CNS and OSPlant Systems products from Aurora, Illinois, to offshore suppliers in China. Reliance on third-party offshore outsource manufacturing partners involves a number of risks, including: • reliance on a limited number of vendors; • increased transportation time, costs and possible port closures; • political instability; • increased exposure to currency fluctuations; • reduced protection for intellectual property; • reduced control over production capacity and • reduced control over product quality. We may be adversely impacted by the rising cost of product material components such as copper, petroleum, gold, platinum and silver. The costs of commodities such as copper and petroleum, and to a lesser extent, gold, platinum and silver, all components of the Company’s products, could increase the cost of the Company’s products thereby adversely impacting our business and operating results. We will not be able to successfully compete, develop and sell new products if we fail to retain key personnel and hire additional key personnel. Because of our need to continually evolve our business with new products and services development and strategies, our success is dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified technical, marketing, sales and management personnel. To remain competitive, we must maintain top management talent, employees who are involved in product development and testing and employees who have developed strong customer relationships. Because of the high demand for these types of employees, it may be difficult to retain existing key employees and attract new key employees. In addition we do not have non-compete contracts with most of our employees. Our inability to attract and retain additional key employees could harm our ability to successfully sell existing products and services and develop new products, services and implement our business goals. Our quarterly operating results are likely to fluctuate significantly and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. We may experience significant fluctuations in quarterly operating results. Due to the risks identified below and elsewhere in "Risk Factors," sales to our largest customers have fluctuated and could fluctuate significantly between quarters. Sales to our customers typically involve large purchase commitments, and customers purchasing our products may generally reschedule purchases without penalty. As a result, our quarterly operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past. Other factors that have influenced and may continue to influence our quarterly operating results include: • the impact of changes in the customer mix or product mix sold; • timing of product introductions or enhancements by us or our competitors; -17- • changes in operating expenses which can occur because of product development costs, timing of customer reimbursements for research and development, pricing pressures and availability and pricing of key components; • write-offs for obsolete inventory; • other risks that are contained in this “Risk Factors” section. Our quarterly fluctuations make it more difficult to forecast our manufacturing and purchasing needs and revenues. It is possible that in some future quarters our operating results will be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which may adversely affect our stock price. We may experience delays in the deployment of new products. Many of our past sales have resulted from our ability to anticipate changes in technology, industry standards and service provider service offerings, and to develop and introduce new and enhanced products and services. Our continued ability to adapt to such changes will be a significant factor in maintaining or improving our competitive position and our prospects for growth. Factors resulting in delays in product development include: • rapid technological changes in the broadband communications industry; • our customers’ lengthy product approval and purchase processes; • our reliance on third-party technology for the development of new products. There can be no assurance that we will successfully introduce new products on a timely basis or achieve sales of new products in the future. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will have the financial and product design resources necessary to continue to successfully develop new products or to otherwise successfully respond to changing technology standards and service provider service offerings. If we fail to deploy new products on a timely basis, then our product sales will decrease, our quarterly operating results could fluctuate, and our competitive position and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. The telecommunications industry is a highly competitive market and this competition may result in operating losses, a decrease in our market share and fluctuations in our revenue. We expect continuing competition as the telecommunications market in general continues to evolve. Because we are significantly smaller than many of our competitors, we may lack the financial resources needed to increase our market share. Many of our competitors are much larger than we are and can offer a wider array of products and services required for a service provider’s business than we do. We expect continued aggressive tactics from many of our competitors such as: • forward pricing of products and services; • early announcements of competing products; • bids that bundle customer premises products (which compete with the Company’s CNS products) with other product and service offerings where the Company does not have products to offer; • intellectual property disputes. Our lack of backlog may affect our ability to adjust to an unexpected shortfall in orders. Because of customer ordering demands we generally ship products within a short period after receipt of an order. We typically do not have a material backlog (or known quantity) of unfilled orders, and our revenues in any quarter are substantially dependent on orders booked in that quarter. Our expense levels and inventory commitments are based on anticipated future revenues and are relatively fixed in the short term. Therefore, we may be unable to cancel purchase orders or adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall of orders. Accordingly, any significant shortfall of demand in relation to our expectations or any material delay of customer orders would have an immediate adverse impact on our business and operating results. Industry consolidation could make competing more difficult. Consolidation of companies offering telecommunications products and conferencing services is occurring through acquisitions, joint ventures and licensing arrangements involving our competitors, our customers and our customers’ competitors. We cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to compete successfully in an increasingly -18- consolidated telecommunications industry. Any heightened competitive pressures that we may face may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and result of operations. We depend on a limited number of customers who are able to exert a high degree of influence over us and loss of a major customer could adversely impact our business. We have and will continue to depend on the U.S. telephone companies for the majority of our revenues. Sales to the two largest telephone company customers accounted for approximately 49.8%, 54.4% and 66.8% of our revenues in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Consequently, our future success will depend upon: • the timeliness and size of future purchase orders from the telephone companies; • the product requirements of the telephone companies; • the financial and operating success of the telephone companies; • the success of the telephone companies' services that use our products and services; • and the Company’s level of success in diversifying its revenue streams beyond the telephone companies. The telephone companies and our other customers are significantly larger than we are and are able to exert a high degree of influence over us. These customers may generally reschedule orders without penalty to the customer. Even if demand for our products is high, the telephone companies have sufficient bargaining power to demand low prices and other terms and conditions that may materially adversely affect our business and operating results. Any attempt by our customers to seek out additional or alternative suppliers would have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. The loss of any of our customers could result in an immediate decrease in sales and materially and adversely affect our business. ConferencePlus’ customer base is concentrated as its top twenty-five customers represent a large portion of total revenue. ConferencePlus’ customers continually undergo review and evaluation of their conferencing and meeting services to evaluate the merits of bringing those services in-house rather than outsourcing those services. There can be no assurance in the future that ConferencePlus’ customers will not develop their own internal conferencing and meeting services. ConferencePlus must continually provide higher quality, lower cost services to maintain and grow its customer base. Any loss of a major account would have a material adverse effect on ConferencePlus. In addition, any merger or acquisition involving a major customer could have a material adverse effect on ConferencePlus. Our customers have lengthy purchase cycles that affect our ability to sell our products. Prior to selling products to service providers, we must undergo lengthy approval and purchase processes. Evaluation can take as little as a few months for products that vary slightly from existing products or up to a year or more for products based on new technologies or utilized for new service offerings. Accordingly, we are continually submitting successive generations of our current products as well as new products to our customers for approval. The length of the approval process can vary and is affected by a number of factors, including: • the complexity of the product involved; • market acceptance of the service provider’s service offering; • service providers priorities; • service providers budgets; • regulatory issues affecting our service providers. The requirement that service providers obtain FCC or state regulatory approval for most new telecommunications and broadband services prior to their implementation has in the past delayed the approval process. Such delays in the future could have a material adverse affect on our business and operating results. While we have been successful in the past in obtaining product approvals from our customers, there is no guarantee that such approvals or that ensuing sales of such products will continue to occur. -19- Our services are affected by uncertain government regulation and changes in current or future laws or regulations could restrict the way we operate our business. The telecommunications industry, including most of our customers, is subject to regulation from federal and state agencies, including the FCC and various state public utility and service commissions. While these regulations do not affect us directly, the effects of regulations on our customers may adversely impact our business and operating results. For example, FCC regulatory policies affecting the availability of telephone company services and other terms on which telephone companies conduct their business may impede our penetration of local access markets, and/or make the markets less financially attractive. In addition, our business and operating results may also be adversely affected by the imposition of tariffs, duties and other import restrictions on components that we obtain from non-domestic suppliers or by the imposition of export restrictions on products that we sell internationally. Internationally, some governments actively promote and create competition in the telecommunications industry. Changes in current or future laws or regulations, in the U.S. or elsewhere, could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Potential product recalls and warranty expenses could adversely affect our ability to remain profitable. Our products are required to meet rigorous standards imposed by our customers. Most of our products carry a limited warranty ranging from one to three years for CNS products and up to seven years for OSPlant Systems products. In addition, our supply contracts with our major customers typically require us to accept returns of products within certain time frames or indemnify such customers against certain liabilities arising out of the use of our products. Complex products such as those offered by us may contain undetected defects or failures when first introduced or as new versions are released. Despite our testing of products and our comprehensive quality control program, there is no guarantee that our products will not suffer from defects or other deficiencies. If product defects, recalls, returns or indemnification claims exceed our reserves for these items, our business could be harmed. Such recalls, returns or claims and the associated negative publicity could result in the loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products, and could affect our product sales, our customer relationships, and our ability to generate a profit. Investors could be adversely affected by future issuances and sales of our securities. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our securities. The Company had 54,002,409 shares of common stock outstanding as of May 29, 2009. Options to purchase 7,395,663 shares of Class A Common Stock, 4,853,961 of which were exercisable, were also outstanding on May 29, 2009. These obligations could result in substantial future dilution with respect to our common stock. We rely on our intellectual property that we may be unable to protect, or we may be found to infringe the rights of others. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to protect trade secrets, obtain or license patents and operate without infringing the rights of others. We rely on a combination of technical leadership, trade secrets, copyright and trademark law and nondisclosure agreements to protect our non-patented proprietary expertise. These measures, however, may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information. Moreover, our business and operating results may be materially adversely affected by competitors who independently develop substantially equivalent technology. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as U.S. law. The telecommunications industry is also characterized by the existence of an increasing number of patents and frequent litigation based on allegations of patent and other intellectual property infringement. From time to time we receive communications from third parties alleging infringement of exclusive patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to us. We expect potential claims to increase in the future. There is no guarantee: • that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us in the future, and that such assertions will not result in costly litigation; • that we would prevail in any such litigation or be able to license any valid and infringed patents from third parties on commercially reasonable terms. -20- Further, such litigation, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial costs to and diversion of our efforts. Any infringement claim or other litigation against or by us could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Business interruption could prevent our ability to deliver product and services to our customers and could adversely affect our business. We rely on subcontractors in Asia for assembly and testing of and to purchase some of the raw materials used in such assemblies. The reliance on third-party subcontractors for assembly of our products involves several risks, including the unavailability of, or interruptions in access to, certain process technologies and reduced control over product quality, delivery schedules, transportation, manufacturing yields, and costs. These risks may be exacerbated by economic or political uncertainties, terrorist actions, or by natural pandemics in countries in which our subcontractors are located. We contract with our outsource manufacturing partners in U.S. dollars. ConferencePlus maintains call centers and bridging equipment in the United States, Ireland and Great Britain. If any of the call centers or bridging equipment was unavailable due to natural or other disaster, then our business could be harmed. We may engage in future acquisitions or fund raising activity that could dilute our current stockholders. We expect to continue to review potential acquisitions and we may acquire businesses, products or technologies in the future. In addition, the Company may decide to raise additional capital to fund its operations. In order to accomplish these activities, acquisitions and fund raising, we could: • issue equity securities that could dilute our current stockholders' percentage ownership; • incur substantial debt; or • assume contingent liabilities. These events could harm our business and/or the price of our common stock. Acquisitions also entail numerous integration risks that could adversely affect our business. ConferencePlus’ large competitors could adversely affect ConferencePlus’ ability to maintain or increase its market share. ConferencePlus participates in the highly competitive industry of voice, video, and multimedia conferencing and meeting services. Competitors include stand-alone conferencing companies and major telecommunications providers. ConferencePlus’ ability to sustain growth and performance is dependent on: • high quality standards and a cost-competitive position; • international expansion; • marketing and sales effectiveness; • evolving technological capability. Any increase in competition could reduce our gross margin, require increased spending on sales and marketing, and otherwise materially adversely affect our business and operating results. Our principal stockholders can exercise significant influence that could discourage transactions involving a change of control and may affect your ability to receive a premium for Class A Common Stock that you purchase. As of May 29, 2009, as trustees of a voting trust containing common stock held for the benefit of the Penny family and the Simon family, Robert C. Penny III and Melvin J. Simon have the exclusive power to vote over 48.6% of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of our common stock. In addition, members of the Penny family who are beneficiaries under this voting trust are parties to a stock transfer restriction agreement which prohibits the beneficiaries from transferring any class B common stock or their beneficial interests in the voting trust without first offering such class B common stock to the other Penny family members. Certain Penny family members also own or are beneficiaries of trusts that own shares outside of the voting trust. As trustees of the Voting Trust and other trusts, Messrs. Penny and Simon control 52.5% of the stock vote. Consequently, we are effectively under the control of Messrs. Penny and -21- Simon, as trustees, who can effectively control the election of all of the directors and determine the outcome of most corporate transactions or other matters submitted to the stockholders for approval. Such control may have the effect of discouraging transactions involving an actual or potential change of control, including transactions in which the holders of Class A Common Stock might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over the then-current market price. -22- ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 