Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below when evaluating our company and when deciding whether to invest in our company. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we do not currently believe are important to an investor may also harm our business operations. If any of the events, contingencies, circumstances or conditions described in the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or our results of operations could be seriously harmed. If that happens, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose part or all of the value of any of our shares held by you. 8 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business Our operating results may fluctuate significantly from period to period, and this may cause our stock price to decline. Our revenue and operating results have fluctuated in the past and we expect our revenue and operating results to continue to fluctuate in the future. Given this fluctuation, we believe that quarter to quarter comparisons of our revenue and operating results are not necessarily meaningful or an accurate indicator of our future performance. As a result, our results of operations may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in the future. If this occurs, the price of our stock would likely decline. Factors that contribute to fluctuations in our operating results include the following: • slowing sales by our distribution and fulfillment partners to their customers, which may place pressure on these partners to reduce purchases of our products; • volume, timing and fulfillment of customer orders; • our efforts to generate additional revenue from our portfolio of intellectual property; • concentration of operations with one manufacturing partner and ability to control expenses related to the manufacture, packaging and shipping of our boxed software products; • customers delaying their purchasing decisions in anticipation of new versions of our products; • customers delaying, canceling or limiting their purchases as a result of the threat or results of terrorism; • introduction of new products by us or our competitors; • seasonality in purchasing patterns of our customers; • reduction in the prices of our products in response to competition or market conditions; • returns and allowance charges in excess of accrued amounts; • timing of significant marketing and sales promotions; • impairment charges against goodwill and other intangible assets; • write-offs of excess or obsolete inventory and accounts receivable that are not collectible; • increased expenditures incurred pursuing new product or market opportunities; • general economic trends as they affect retail and corporate sales; and • higher than anticipated costs related to fixed-price contracts with our customers. Due to the foregoing factors, among others, our revenue and operating results are difficult to forecast. Our expense levels are based in significant part on our expectations of future revenue, and we may not be able to reduce our expenses quickly to respond to a shortfall in projected revenue. Therefore, our failure to meet revenue expectations would seriously harm our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We have grown, and may continue to grow, through acquisitions, which could dilute our existing shareholders and could involve substantial integration risks. As part of our business strategy, we have in the past acquired, and expect to continue to acquire, other businesses and technologies. In connection with past acquisitions, we issued a substantial number of shares of our common stock as transaction consideration and also incurred significant debt to finance the cash consideration used for our acquisition of Dictaphone Corporation. We may continue to issue equity securities for future acquisitions that would dilute our existing stockholders, perhaps significantly depending on the terms of the acquisition. We may also incur additional debt in connection with future acquisitions, which, if available at all, may place additional restrictions on our ability to operate our business. Furthermore, our prior acquisitions required substantial 9 Table of Contents integration and management efforts. Our recently completed acquisition of Dictaphone Corporation will likely pose similar challenges. Acquisitions of this nature involve a number of risks, including: • difficulty in transitioning and integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses, including different and complex accounting and financial reporting systems; • potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; • potential difficulty in successfully implementing, upgrading and deploying in a timely and effective manner new operational information systems and upgrades of our finance, accounting and product distribution systems; • difficulty in incorporating acquired technology and rights into our products and technology; • unanticipated expenses and delays in completing acquired development projects and technology integration; • management of geographically remote units both in the United States and internationally; • impairment of relationships with partners and customers; • customers delaying purchases of our products pending resolution of product integration between our existing and our newly acquired products; • entering markets or types of businesses in which we have limited experience; and • potential loss of key employees of the acquired company. As a result of these and other risks, we may not realize anticipated benefits from our acquisitions. Any failure to achieve these benefits or failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses and technologies could seriously harm our business. Purchase accounting treatment of our acquisitions could decrease our net income in the foreseeable future, which could have a material and adverse effect on the market value of our common stock. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, we have accounted for our acquisitions using the purchase method of accounting. Under purchase accounting, we record the market value of our common stock or other form of consideration issued in connection with the acquisition and the amount of direct transaction costs as the cost of acquiring the company or business. We have allocated that cost to the individual assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including various identifiable intangible assets such as acquired technology, acquired trade names and acquired customer relationships based on their respective fair values. Intangible assets generally will be amortized over a five to ten year period. Goodwill and certain intangible assets with indefinite lives, are not subject to amortization but is subject to at least an annual impairment analysis, which may result in an impairment charge if the carrying value exceeds its implied fair value. As of September 30, 2006, we had identified intangible assets amounting to approximately $220.0 million and goodwill of approximately $699.3 million. Our significant debt could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our credit facility. We have a significant amount of debt. On March 31, 2006, we entered into a credit facility which consists of a $355.0 million 7-year term loan and a $75.0 million six-year revolving credit line. As of September 30, 2006, $353.2 million remained outstanding under the term loan and there were no outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit line. Our high level of debt could have important consequences, for example it could: • require us to use of a large portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on the credit facility, which will reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development expenditures and other business activities; • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or exploiting business opportunities; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and 10 Table of Contents • limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our debt, our ability to borrow additional funds, dispose of assets or pay cash dividends. In addition, a substantial portion of our debt bears interest at variable rates. If market interest rates increase, our debt service requirements will increase, which would adversely affect our cash flow. While we have entered into an interest rate swap agreement limiting our exposure for a portion of our debt, such agreement does not offer complete protection from this risk. We have a history of operating losses, and we may incur losses in the future, which may require us to raise additional capital on unfavorable terms. We reported net losses of approximately $22.9 million, $5.4 million and $9.4 million for fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We had an accumulated deficit of approximately $190.1 million at September 30, 2006. If we are unable to achieve and maintain profitability, the market price for our stock may decline, perhaps substantially. We cannot assure you that our revenue will grow or that we will achieve or maintain profitability in the future. If we do not achieve profitability, we may be required to raise additional capital to maintain or grow our operations. The terms of any additional capital, if available at all, may be highly dilutive to existing investors or contain other unfavorable terms, such as a high interest rate and restrictive covenants. We depend on limited or sole source suppliers for critical components. The inability to obtain sufficient components as required, and under favorable purchase terms, would harm our business. We are dependent on certain suppliers, including limited and sole source suppliers, to provide key components used in our products. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, delays in component deliveries, which in turn could cause delays in product shipments and require the redesign of certain products. In addition, if we are unable to procure necessary components under favorable purchase terms, including at favorable prices and with the order lead-times needed for the efficient and profitable operation of our business, our results of operations could suffer. Speech technologies may not achieve widespread acceptance by businesses, which could limit our ability to grow our speech business. We have invested and expect to continue to invest heavily in the acquisition, development and marketing of speech technologies. The market for speech technologies is relatively new and rapidly evolving. Our ability to increase revenue in the future depends in large measure on acceptance of speech technologies in general and our products in particular. The continued development of the market for our current and future speech solutions will also depend on the following factors: • consumer demand for speech-enabled applications; • development by third-party vendors of applications using speech technologies; and • continuous improvement in speech technology. Sales of our speech products would be harmed if the market for speech software does not continue to develop or develops more slowly than we expect, and, consequently, our business could be harmed and we may not recover the costs associated with our investment in our speech technologies. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and rapidly changing, and we may be unable to compete successfully. There are a number of companies that develop or may develop products that compete in our targeted markets. The individual markets in which we compete are highly competitive, and are rapidly changing. Within imaging, we compete directly with ABBYY, Adobe, I.R.I.S. and NewSoft. Within speech, we compete with AT&T, Fonix, IBM, Microsoft and Philips. Within healthcare dictation and transcription, we compete with Philips Medical, Spheris and other smaller providers. In speech, some of our partners such as Avaya, Cisco, Edify, Genesys and Nortel develop and market products that can be considered substitutes for our solutions. In addition, a number of smaller companies 11 Table of Contents in both speech and imaging produce technologies or products that are in some markets competitive with our solutions. Current and potential competitors have established, or may establish, cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase the ability of their technologies to address the needs of our prospective customers. The competition in these markets could adversely affect our operating results by reducing the volume of the products we license or the prices we can charge. Some of our current or potential competitors, such as Adobe, IBM and Microsoft, have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. These competitors may be able to respond more rapidly than we can to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements. They may also devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we do. Some of our customers, such as IBM and Microsoft, have developed or acquired products or technologies that compete with our products and technologies. These customers may give higher priority to the sale of these competitive products or technologies. To the extent they do so, market acceptance and penetration of our products, and therefore our revenue, may be adversely affected. Our success will depend substantially upon our ability to enhance our products and technologies and to develop and introduce, on a timely and cost-effective basis, new products and features that meet changing customer requirements and incorporate technological advancements. If we are unable to develop new products and enhance functionalities or technologies to adapt to these changes, or if we are unable to realize synergies among our acquired products and technologies, our business will suffer. The failure to successfully maintain the adequacy of our system of internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse impact on our ability to report our financial results in an accurate and timely manner. Our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as of September 30, 2005, identified a material weakness in our internal controls related to tax accounting, primarily as a result of a lack of necessary corporate accounting resources and ineffective execution of certain controls designed to prevent or detect actual or potential misstatements in the tax accounts. While we have taken remediation measures to correct this material weakness, which measures are more fully described in Item 9A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we cannot assure you that we will not have material weaknesses in our internal controls in the future. Any failure in the effectiveness of our system of internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse impact on our ability to report our financial results in an accurate and timely manner. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from sales in Europe and Asia. Our results could be harmed by economic, political, regulatory and other risks associated with these and other international regions. Since we license our products worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. We anticipate that revenue from international operations will continue to increase in their total U.S. dollar value. Reported international revenue, classified by the major geographic areas in which our customers are located, for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004 represented approximately $100.2 million, $71.5 million and $39.4 million, respectively. Most of our international revenue is generated by sales in Europe and Asia. In addition, some of our products are developed and manufactured outside the United States. A significant portion of the development and manufacturing of our speech products are completed in Belgium, and a significant portion of our imaging research and development is conducted in Hungary. In connection with the Philips acquisition, we added an additional research and development location in Aachen, Germany, and in connection with the acquisitions of Locus Dialog and the former Nuance Communications, In., which we refer to as Former Nuance, we added additional research and development centers in Montreal, Canada. Our acquisitions of ART and Phonetic added research and development and professional services operations in Tel Aviv, Israel. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors associated with international sales and operations, including: • changes in a specific country’s or region’s economic conditions; 12 Table of Contents • geopolitical turmoil, including terrorism and war; • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements imposed by the United States or by other countries; • compliance with foreign and domestic laws and regulations; • negative consequences from changes in applicable tax laws; • difficulties in staffing and managing operations in multiple locations in many countries; • difficulties in collecting trade accounts receivable in other countries; and • less effective protection of intellectual property. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Because we have international subsidiaries and distributors that operate and sell our products outside the United States, we are exposed to the risk of changes in foreign currency exchange rates or declining economic conditions in these countries. In certain circumstances, we have entered into forward exchange contracts to hedge against foreign currency fluctuations on intercompany balances with our foreign subsidiaries. We use these contracts to reduce our risk associated with exchange rate movements, as the gains or losses on these contracts are intended to offset any exchange rate losses or gains on the hedged transaction. We do not engage in foreign currency speculation. Hedges are designated and documented at the inception of the hedge and are evaluated for effectiveness monthly. Forward exchange contracts hedging firm commitments qualify for hedge accounting when they are designated as a hedge of the foreign currency exposure and they are effective in minimizing such exposure. With our increased international presence in a number of geographic locations and with international revenue projected to increase in fiscal 2007, we are exposed to changes in foreign currencies including the Euro, British Pound, Canadian Dollar, Japanese Yen, Israeli New Shekel and the Hungarian Forint. Changes in the value of the Euro or other foreign currencies relative to the value of the U.S. dollar could adversely affect future revenue and operating results. Impairment of our intangible assets could result in significant charges which would adversely impact our future operating results. We have significant intangible assets, including goodwill and intangibles with indefinite lives, which are susceptible to valuation adjustments as a result of changes in various factors or conditions. The most significant intangible assets are patents and core technology, completed technology, customer relationships and trademarks. Customer relationships are amortized on an accelerated basis based upon the pattern in which the economic benefit of customer relationships are being utilized. Other identifiable intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. We assess the potential impairment of identifiable intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors which could trigger an impairment of such assets, include the following: • significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results; • significant changes in the manner of or use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business; • significant negative industry or economic trends; • significant decline in our stock price for a sustained period; and • a decline in our market capitalization below net book value. Future adverse changes in these or other unforeseeable factors could result in an impairment charge that would impact our results of operations and financial position in the reporting period identified. As of September 30, 2006, we had identified intangible assets amounting to approximately $220.0 million and goodwill of approximately $699.3 million. 13 Table of Contents If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our business could be harmed. If any of our key employees were to leave us, we could face substantial difficulty in hiring qualified successors and could experience a loss in productivity while any successor obtains the necessary training and experience. Our employment relationships are generally at-will and we have had key employees leave us in the past. We cannot assure you that one or more key employees will not leave us in the future. We intend to continue to hire additional highly qualified personnel, including software engineers and operational personnel, but we may not be able to attract, assimilate or retain qualified personnel in the future. Any failure to attract, integrate, motivate and retain these employees could harm our business. Our medical transcription services may be subject to legal claims for failure to comply with laws governing the confidentiality of medical records. Healthcare professionals who use our medical transcription services deliver to us health information about their patients including information that constitutes a record under applicable law that we may store on our computer systems. Numerous federal and state laws and regulations, the common law and contractual obligations govern collection, dissemination, use and confidentiality of patient-identifiable health information, including: • state and federal privacy and confidentiality laws; • our contracts with customers and partners; • state laws regulating healthcare professionals; • Medicaid laws; and • the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and related rules proposed by the Health Care Financing Administration. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 establishes elements including, but not limited to, federal privacy and security standards for the use and protection of protected health information. Any failure by us or by our personnel or partners to comply with applicable requirements may result in a material liability to us. Although we have systems and policies in place for safeguarding protected health information from unauthorized disclosure, these systems and policies may not preclude claims against us for alleged violations of applicable requirements. There can be no assurance that we will not be subject to liability claims which could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property and Technology Unauthorized use of our proprietary technology and intellectual property will adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our success and competitive position depend in large part on our ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property rights protecting our products and services. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain, license, sell or otherwise use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult and we may not be able to protect our technology from unauthorized use. Additionally, our competitors may independently develop technologies that are substantially the same or superior to ours and that do not infringe our rights. In these cases, we would be unable to prevent our competitors from selling or licensing these similar or superior technologies. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Although the source code for our proprietary software is protected both as a trade secret and as a copyrighted work, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Litigation, regardless of the outcome, can be very expensive and can divert management efforts. 14 Table of Contents Third parties have claimed and may claim in the future that we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could be exposed to significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling our products if such claims are successful. From time to time, we are subject to claims that we or our customers may be infringing or contributing to the infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. We may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technologies and products. If it appears necessary or desirable, we may seek licenses for these intellectual property rights. However, we may not be able to obtain licenses from some or all claimants, the terms of any offered licenses may not be acceptable to us, and we may not be able to resolve disputes without litigation. Any litigation regarding intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. In the event of a claim of intellectual property infringement, we may be required to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. Third parties claiming intellectual property infringement may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to develop and sell our products. On November 9, 2006, VoiceSignal Technologies, Inc. filed an action against us and eleven of our resellers in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas claiming patent infringement. Damages were sought in an unspecified amount. In the lawsuit, VoiceSignal alleges that we are infringing United States Patent No. 5,855,000 which is related to improving correction in a dictation application based on a two input analysis. We believe these claims have no merit and intend to defend the actions vigorously. On May 31, 2006 GTX Corporation (“GTX”), filed an action against us in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas claiming patent infringement. Damages were sought in an unspecified amount. In the lawsuit, GTX alleged that we are infringing United States Patent No. 7,016,536 entitled “Method and Apparatus for Automatic Cleaning and Enhancing of Scanned Documents.” We believe these claims have no merit and intend to defend the action vigorously. On November 27, 2002, AllVoice Computing plc (“AllVoice”) filed an action against us in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas claiming patent infringement. In the lawsuit, AllVoice alleges that we are infringing United States Patent No. 5,799,273 entitled “Automated Proofreading Using Interface Linking Recognized Words to their Audio Data While Text is Being Changed” (the “’273 Patent”). The ’273 Patent generally discloses techniques for manipulating audio data associated with text generated by a speech recognition engine. Although we have several products in the speech recognition technology field, we believe that our products do not infringe the ’273 Patent because, in addition to other defenses, they do not use the claimed techniques. Damages are sought in an unspecified amount. We filed an Answer on December 23, 2002. The United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas entered summary judgment against AllVoice and dismissed all claims against Nuance on February 21, 2006. AllVoice filed a notice of appeal from this judgment on April 26, 2006. We believe that the final outcome of the current litigation matters described above will not have a significant adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. However, even if our defense is successful, the litigation could require significant management time and could be costly. Should we not prevail in these litigation matters, we may be unable to sell and/or license certain of our technologies we consider to be proprietary, and our operating results, financial position and cash flows could be adversely impacted. Our software products may have bugs, which could result in delayed or lost revenue, expensive correction, liability to our customers and claims against us. Complex software products such as ours may contain errors, defects or bugs. Defects in the solutions or products that we develop and sell to our customers could require expensive corrections and result in delayed or lost revenue, adverse customer reaction and negative publicity about us or our products and services. Customers who are not satisfied with any of our products may also bring claims against us for damages, which, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming to defend, and could result in costly litigation and payment of damages. Such claims could harm our reputation, financial results and competitive position. 15 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure, Organization and Common Stock The holdings of our two largest stockholders may enable them to influence matters requiring stockholder approval. On March 19, 2004, Warburg Pincus, a global private equity firm agreed to purchase all outstanding shares of our stock held by Xerox Corporation for approximately $80 million. Additionally, on May 9, 2005 and September 15, 2005 we sold shares of common stock, and warrants to purchase common stock to Warburg Pincus for aggregate gross proceeds of approximately $75.1 million. As of September 30, 2006, Warburg Pincus beneficially owned approximately 23.4% of our outstanding common stock, including warrants exercisable for up to 7,066,538 shares of our common stock and 3,562,238 shares of our outstanding Series B Preferred Stock, each of which is convertible into one share of our common stock. Franklin Resources, Inc. is our second largest stockholder, owning approximately 5.3% of our common stock as of September 30, 2006. Because of their large holdings of our capital stock relative to other stockholders, each of these two stockholders acting individually, or together, have a strong influence over matters requiring approval by our stockholders. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. Our stock price historically has been and may continue to be volatile. Various factors contribute to the volatility of our stock price, including, for example, quarterly variations in our financial results, new product introductions by us or our competitors and general economic and market conditions. While we cannot predict the individual effect that these factors may have on the market price of our common stock, these factors, either individually or in the aggregate, could result in significant volatility in our stock price during any given period of time. Moreover, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock often are subject to securities class action litigation. If we were the subject of such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the rules of the NASDAQ Global Select Market, are resulting in increased general and administrative expenses for companies such as ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies, our business may be harmed. We have implemented anti-takeover provisions, which could discourage or prevent a takeover, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law, as well as other organizational documents could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include: • authorized “blank check” preferred stock; • prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; • limiting the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; 16 Table of Contents • requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at meetings of our stockholders; and • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of directors and for stockholder proposals. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 