Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Development Businesses Changes in trends in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, including difficult market conditions, could adversely affect our operating results. Industry trends and economic and political factors that affect pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and academic and government entities that sponsor clinical research also affect our business. For example, the practice of many companies in these industries and government organizations has been to hire companies like us to conduct large development projects. If these industries reduce their tendency to outsource those projects in light of current difficult conditions in credit markets and the economy in general, or for any reason, our operations, financial condition and growth rate could be materially and adversely affected. In the past, mergers, product withdrawal and liability lawsuits, and other factors in the pharmaceutical industry appear to have slowed decision-making by pharmaceutical companies and delayed drug development projects. Continuation or increases in these trends could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, numerous governments have undertaken efforts to control growing healthcare costs through legislation, regulation and voluntary agreements with medical care providers and pharmaceutical companies. If future cost-containment efforts limit the profits that can be derived on new drugs, our clients might reduce their drug discovery and development spending, which could reduce our revenue and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our revenue depends on a small number of industries and clients. We provide services to the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries and academic and government organizations that sponsor clinical trials, and our revenue is highly dependent on expenditures by these clients. Accordingly, our operations could be materially adversely affected by consolidation in these industries or other factors resulting in a decrease in the number of our potential clients, including business reductions or failures due to a lack of financing. If the number of our potential clients declines even further, they might be able to negotiate price discounts or other terms for our services that are less favorable to us than has historically been the case. We have experienced client concentration in the past and could again in the future. The loss of business from a significant client could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Neither request for proposal, or RFP, activity nor backlog necessarily result in revenue, and to the extent the mix of contracts in our backlog continues to shift toward larger contracts with a more global component, this might cause the rate at which this backlog converts into revenue to lengthen when compared to historical trends. Neither request for proposal, or RFP, activity nor backlog as of any date is necessarily a meaningful predictor of future results. Clients can reduce the size of RFPs and also withdraw them. We also might not win RFPs for any number of reasons. Likewise, backlog can be affected by a number of factors, including the size and duration of contracts, many of which are performed over several years, and the changes in labor utilization that typically occur during a study. Additionally, contracts relating to our clinical development business are subject to early termination by the client and clinical trials can be delayed or canceled for many reasons, including unexpected test results, safety concerns, regulatory developments, economic issues, availability of clinical trial material and protocol design matters. Also, the scope of a contract can change significantly during the course of a study. If the scope of a contract is revised, the adjustment to backlog occurs when the revised scope is approved by the client. For these and other reasons, we might not fully realize our entire backlog as net revenue. As we increasingly compete for and enter into large contracts that are more global in nature, we expect the rate at which this backlog converts into revenue, to increase or lengthen. An increase in this conversion rate means that the rate of revenue recognized on these large contract awards may be slower than what we have experienced in the past, which could impact our net revenues and results of operations on a quarterly and annual basis. The revenue recognition on larger, more global projects could be slower than on smaller, less global projects for a variety of reasons, including but not limited to an extended period of negotiation between the time the project is awarded to us and the actual signature of the contract as well as an increased timeframe for obtaining the regulatory approvals necessary. 23 Table of Contents The majority of our clients’ contracts can be delayed, terminated or reduced in scope upon short notice. Most of our contracts for discovery and development services are terminable by the client upon 30 to 90 days’ notice. Clients delay, terminate or reduce the scope of their contracts for a variety of reasons, including but not limited to: • lack of available financing; • products being tested fail to satisfy safety requirements; • products have undesired clinical results; • the client decides to forego a particular study; • inability to enroll enough patients in the study; • inability to recruit enough investigators; • production problems cause shortages of the drug; and • actions by regulatory authorities. The delay, loss or reduction in scope of a large contract or multiple smaller contracts could adversely affect our operating results, although our contracts entitle us to receive payment for work performed in the event of cancellation. Cancellation or delay of a large contract or multiple smaller contracts could result in under-utilized resources and require an adjustment to our backlog, negatively affecting our net revenue and results of operations. We might not be able to recruit and retain the experienced personnel we need to compete in the drug development industry. Our future success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled personnel. Management Our future success depends on the personal efforts and abilities of the principal members of our senior management and scientific staff to provide strategic direction, develop business, manage our operations, and maintain a cohesive and stable work environment. For example, we rely on the services of Fredric N. Eshelman, our executive chairman, David L. Grange, our chief executive officer, William J. Sharbaugh, our chief operating officer and Daniel G. Darazsdi, our chief financial officer. Although we have employment agreements with most of our executives, they are generally only for one or two years and do not assure that these named executives or any other executive with whom we have an employment agreement will remain with us. We do not have employment agreements with all of our key personnel. Healthcare Providers Our ability to maintain, expand or renew existing business with our clients and to get business from new clients, particularly in the drug development sector, depends on our ability to subcontract and retain healthcare providers with the skills necessary to keep pace with continuing changes in drug development technologies. Competition for experienced healthcare providers is intense. We compete with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including our clients and collaborators, other contract research companies and academic and research institutions, to recruit healthcare providers. Scientists and Other Technical Professionals Our ability to maintain, expand or renew existing business with our clients and to get business from new clients in both the drug development and the drug discovery areas also depends on our ability to hire and retain scientists with the skills necessary to keep pace with continuing changes in drug discovery and development technologies. We face the same risks, challenges and competition in attracting and retaining experienced scientists as we do with healthcare providers. Any inability to hire additional qualified personnel might also require an increase in the workload for both existing and new personnel. We might not be successful in attracting new healthcare providers, scientists or management, or in retaining or motivating our existing personnel. The shortage of experienced healthcare providers and scientists, or other factors, might lead to increased recruiting, relocation and compensation costs for these professionals, which might exceed our forecasts. These increased costs might reduce our profit margins or make hiring new healthcare providers or scientists impracticable. If we are unable to attract and retain any of these personnel, our ability to execute our business plan will be adversely affected 24 Table of Contents Our future success depends on our ability to keep pace with rapid technological changes that could make our services less competitive or obsolete. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries generally and drug discovery and development more specifically are subject to increasingly rapid technological changes. Our competitors or others might develop technologies, services or products that are more effective or commercially attractive than our current or future technologies, services or products, or that render our technologies, services or products less competitive or obsolete. If competitors introduce superior technologies, services or products and we cannot make enhancements to ours to remain competitive, our competitive position, and in turn our business, revenue and financial condition, would be materially and adversely affected. Hardware or software failures, delays in the operations of our computer and communications systems or the failure to implement system enhancements could harm our business. Our success depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications systems. A failure of our network or data gathering procedures could impede the processing of data, delivery of databases and services, client orders and day-to-day management of our business and could result in the corruption or loss of data. While some of our operations have disaster recovery plans in place, they might not adequately protect us, particularly because we currently do not have redundant facilities everywhere in the world to provide information technology capacity in the event of a system failure. Despite any precautions we take, damage from fire, floods, hurricanes, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, break-ins and similar events at our various computer facilities could result in interruptions in the flow of data to our servers and from our servers to our clients. In addition, any failure by our computer environment to provide our required data communications capacity could result in interruptions in our service. In the event of a delay in the delivery of data, we could be required to transfer our data collection operations to an alternative provider of server hosting services. Such a transfer could result in delays in our ability to deliver our products and services to our clients. Additionally, significant delays in the planned delivery of system enhancements, improvements and inadequate performance of the systems once they are completed could damage our reputation and harm our business. Finally, long-term disruptions in the infrastructure caused by events such as natural disasters, the outbreak of war, the escalation of hostilities and acts of terrorism, particularly involving cities in which we have offices, could adversely affect our businesses. Although we carry property and business interruption insurance, our coverage might not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur. Any failure by us to comply with existing regulations could harm our reputation and operating results. We and our clients, investigators and collaboration partners are subject to extensive regulation by federal government, state governments, and the foreign countries in which we conduct our business. In particular, we are subject to extensive and rigorous government regulation as a developer of drug candidates. For example, the FDA regulates, among other things, the development, testing, research, manufacture, record-keeping, labeling, storage, approval, quality control, adverse event reporting, advertising, promotions, sale and distribution of pharmaceutical products. Our product candidates are subject to extensive regulation by foreign governments. The regulatory review and approval process, which includes preclinical studies and clinical trials of each product candidate, is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. We must adhere to as well as rely on our contract manufacturers and third-party suppliers for regulatory compliance and adhering to the FDA’s current Good Clinical Practices, or cGMP, Good Laboratory Practice or Good Manufacturing Practice requirements. If we or these manufacturers or suppliers fail to comply with applicable regulations, including FDA pre-or post-approval inspections and cGMP requirements, then the FDA could sanction us. These sanctions could include fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our products, delay, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, product seizures or recalls, operational restrictions or criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect our operating results. For example, if we were to fail to verify that informed consent is obtained from participants in connection with a particular clinical trial or grant deviations from the inclusion or exclusion criteria in a study protocol, the data collected from that trial could be disqualified and we might be required to conduct the trial again at no further cost to our client, but at a substantial reputational and financial cost to us. If our operations are found to violate any applicable law or other governmental regulations, we might be subject to civil and criminal penalties, damages and fines. Similarly, if the hospitals, physicians or other providers or entities with 25 Table of Contents which we do business are found non-compliant with applicable laws, they might be subject to sanctions, which could also have a negative impact on us. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations, and additional legal or regulatory change. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business and damage our reputation. We expend a significant amount on compliance efforts and such expenses are unpredictable and might adversely affect our results. Changing laws, regulations and standards might also create uncertainty and increase insurance costs. We are committed to compliance and maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment might result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Changes in the U.S. and international healthcare industry, including reimbursement rates, could adversely affect the commercial value of our development product candidates, increase the cost of our business resulting in loss of business opportunities or limit our service or product offerings. The U.S. and international healthcare industry is subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences that may significantly affect the purchasing practices and pricing of pharmaceuticals. The laws and regulations governing the healthcare industry may change and additional government regulations might be enacted, which could prevent or delay regulatory approval of product candidates. The U.S. Congress has also considered and may adopt healthcare reform or other legislation that could have the effect of putting downward pressure on the prices that pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can charge for prescription drugs. Cost-containment measures, whether instituted by healthcare providers or imposed by government health administration regulators or new regulations, could result in greater selectivity in the purchase of drugs. As a result, third-party payers might challenge the price and cost effectiveness of products. In addition, in many major markets outside the United States, pricing approval is required before sales might commence. As a result, significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of approved healthcare products. Federal or state authorities might also adopt healthcare legislation or regulations that are more burdensome than existing regulations. For example, recent product safety concerns and the creation of the Drug Safety Oversight Board could change the regulatory environment for drug products, including the process for FDA product approval and post-approval safety surveillance. These and other changes in regulation could increase our expenses or limit our ability to offer some of our services or products. For example, the confidentiality of patient-specific information and the circumstances under which it may be released for inclusion in our databases or used in other aspects of our business are subject to substantial government regulation. Additional legislation or regulation governing the possession, use and dissemination of medical record information and other personal health information might require us to implement new security measures that require substantial expenditures or limit our ability to offer some of our services. These regulations might also increase costs by creating new privacy requirements for our informatics business and mandating additional privacy procedures for our clinical research business. The drug development services industry is highly competitive. We face significant competition, including from entities that have substantially greater resources and more experience in the commercialization and marketing of pharmaceuticals than we have. Potential competitors in the United States and other countries include other CROs, major pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and specialized pharmaceutical companies. These competitors might succeed in more rapidly developing and marketing services, technologies and products that are more effective than ours. Our business has experienced substantial expansion in the past, and contraction in 2009, and we might not properly manage any expansion or contraction in the future. Our business has expanded substantially in recent years, and in July 2009 we reduced our Development workforce in North America by approximately 270 employees due to lower demand for our services. Rapid expansion or contraction 26 Table of Contents could strain our operational, human and financial resources and facilities. If we fail to properly manage any changes, our expenses might grow more than revenue and our results of operations and financial condition might be negatively affected. For example, in 2009, our operating expenses as a percentage of net revenues increased in comparison to prior years. In order to manage expansion or contraction, we must, among other things, do the following: • continue to improve our operating, administrative and information systems; • accurately predict our future personnel, resource and facility needs to meet our commitments; • track the progress of ongoing projects; and • attract and retain qualified management, sales, professional, scientific and technical operating personnel. In addition, we have numerous business groups, subsidiaries and divisions. If we cannot properly manage these groups, subsidiaries or divisions, it will disrupt our operations. We also face additional risks in expanding our foreign operations. Specifically, we might find it difficult to: • assimilate differences in foreign business practices and regulations; • properly integrate systems and operating procedures; • hire and retain qualified personnel; and • overcome language and cultural barriers. Future acquisitions or investments could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses and adversely affect our business. We anticipate that a portion of any future growth of our business might be accomplished by acquiring existing businesses, products or technologies. The success of any acquisition will depend upon, among other things, our ability to integrate acquired personnel, operations, products and technologies into our organization effectively, to retain and motivate key personnel of acquired businesses and to retain their clients. In addition, we might not be able to identify suitable acquisition opportunities or obtain any necessary financing on acceptable terms. We might also spend time and money investigating and negotiating with potential acquisition or investment targets, but not complete the transaction. Any future acquisition could involve other risks, including the assumption of additional liabilities and expenses, issuances of potentially dilutive securities or interest-bearing debt, transaction costs, reduction in our stock price as a result of any of these or because of market reaction to a transaction and diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. We have made and plan to continue to make investments in other companies. In many cases, there is no public market for the securities of these companies and we might not be able to sell these securities on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In addition, if these companies encounter financial difficulties, we might lose all or part of our investment. For example, in 2008 and 2009 we recorded an investment impairment of $14.0 million and $2.1 million, respectively, to write down the carrying value of certain investments due to an other-than-temporary decline in fair value. See Note 3 in the notes to consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report for a more detailed discussion of these impairments. The investment of our cash and cash equivalents, short-term and long-term investments balance are subject to risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. At December 31, 2009, we had $408.9 million in cash and cash equivalents, $144.6 million in short-term investments and $88.6 in long-term investments. These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which have been exacerbated by the recent global financial crisis. Even though we liquidated $10.2 million of our auction rate securities portfolio in 2009, we classified our entire balance of auction rate securities as long-term assets at December 31, 2009 due to continuing uncertainties about the liquidity in the auction rate securities market. These risks and factors might have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition, which could harm our business or our ability to pay dividends. The fixed price nature of our development contracts could hurt our operating results 27 Table of Contents The majority of our contracts for the provision of development services are at fixed prices or fixed unit prices, and therefore have set limits on the amounts we can charge for our services. As a result, variations in the timing and progress of large contracts can materially affect our operating results. In addition, we bear the risk of cost overruns unless the scope of activity is revised from the contract specifications and we are able to negotiate a contract modification with the client shifting the additional cost to the client. If we fail to adequately price our contracts in total or at the unit level, or if we experience significant cost overruns, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. From time to time, we have had to commit unanticipated resources to complete projects, resulting in lower gross margins on those projects. We might experience similar situations in the future, which could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. If we are unable to attract suitable willing investigators and enroll a sufficient number of participants for our clinical trials, our development business might suffer. The clinical research studies we run rely upon the ready accessibility and willing participation of physician investigators and participant subjects. Investigators are typically located at hospitals, clinics or other sites and supervise administration of the study drug to participants during the course of a clinical trial. The rate of completion of clinical trials is significantly dependent upon the rate of participant enrollment. Participant enrollment is a function of many factors, including: • the size of the patient population; • perceived risks and benefits of the drug under study; • availability of competing therapies, including those in clinical development; • availability of clinical drug supply; • availability of qualified clinical trial sites; • availability and willingness of potential participants to enroll in clinical trials; • design of the protocol; • proximity of and access by participants to clinical sites; • participant referral practices of physicians; • eligibility criteria for the study in question; and • efforts of the sponsor of and clinical sites involved in the trial to facilitate timely enrollment. We might have difficulty obtaining sufficient patient enrollment or clinician support to conduct our clinical trials as planned, and we might need to expend substantial additional funds to obtain access to resources or delay or modify our plans significantly. These considerations might result in our being unable to successfully achieve our projected development timelines, or potentially even lead us to consider the termination of ongoing clinical trials or development of a product for a particular indication. Our business exposes us to potential liability for personal injury or product liability claims that could affect our financial condition. Our business involves the testing of new drugs on human volunteers and, if marketing approval is received for any of our drug candidates, their use by participants. This exposes us to the risk of liability for personal injury or death to patients resulting from, among other things, possible unforeseen adverse side effects or improper administration of a drug or device. Many of these volunteers and participants are already seriously ill and are at risk of further illness or death. For example, we have from time to time been sued by individuals alleging personal injury due to their participation in a clinical trial and seeking damages from us under a variety of legal theories. If we are required to pay damages or incur defense costs in connection with any personal injury claim that is outside the scope of indemnification agreements we have with clients and collaborative partners, if any indemnification agreement is not performed in accordance with its terms or if our liability exceeds the amount of any applicable indemnification limits or available insurance coverage, we could be materially and adversely affected both financially and reputationally. We might also not be able to get adequate insurance for these risks at reasonable rates in the future. 28 Table of Contents Our business uses biological and hazardous materials, which could injure people or violate laws, resulting in liability that could hurt our financial condition and business Our drug development activities involve the controlled use of potentially harmful biological materials, as well as hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and waste used in our operations. As a result, we might be required to incur significant costs to comply with laws and regulations. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any resulting damages and incur liabilities, which exceed our resources. In addition, we cannot predict the extent of the adverse effect on our business or the financial and other costs that might result from any new government requirements arising out of future legislative, administrative or judicial actions. Our business is subject to international economic, currency, political and other risks that could negatively affect our revenue and results of operations. Because we provide our services worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Our net revenue from our non-U.S. operations represented approximately 41.4% of our total net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009. We anticipate that revenue from international operations will grow in the future, particularly in light of our recent acquisitions and expansion in Central and Eastern Europe and China. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: • changes in foreign currency exchange rates, which could result in foreign currency losses; • changes in a specific country or region’s political or economic conditions; • potential negative consequences from changes in tax laws affecting our ability to expatriate profits; • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations, including risks of violations of local laws or the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act by employees overseas; and • unfavorable labor regulations, including specifically those applicable to our European operations. For example, in 2009 our operating income was positively impacted by approximately $17.4 million, net of hedging gain, due to the effect of the strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to the euro, British pound and Brazilian real. Although we attempt to manage this risk through provisions in our contracts with our clients and other methods, including foreign currency hedging contracts, we might not be able to eliminate or manage these risks in the future and our operating income could be materially and adversely affected by a significant decline in the value of the U.S. dollar. Our inability to adequately protect our intellectual property rights could hurt our business. The drug development industry has a history of patent and other intellectual property litigation, and we might be involved in costly intellectual property lawsuits. Our success is dependent on our ability to protect the proprietary software, compositions, processes and other technologies we develop during the drug development process along with our ability to develop and protect patent and other intellectual rights and operate without infringing the intellectual property rights of others. Any inability to protect our intellectual property rights could materially and adversely affect our business. Any patents that we own or license might not provide valuable protection in the future for the covered technology or products. Our pending patent applications might not result in the issuance of valid patents or the claim scope of our issued patents might not provide competitive advantages. Also, our patent protection might not prevent others from developing competitive products using related or other technology that does not infringe our patent rights. In addition, patent applications are confidential for a period of time after filing. We therefore might not know that a competitor has filed a patent application covering subject matter similar to subject matter in one of our patent applications or that we were the first to invent the innovation we seek to patent. This might lead to disputes including interference proceeding or litigation to determine rights to patentable subject matter. These disputes are often expensive and might result in our being unable to patent an innovation. 29 Table of Contents The scope, enforceability and effective term of patents can be highly uncertain and often involve complex legal and factual questions and proceedings. No consistent policy has emerged regarding the breadth of claims in pharmaceutical or biotechnology patents, so that even issued patents might later be modified or revoked by the relevant patent authorities or courts. These proceedings could be expensive, last several years and either prevent issuance of additional patents to us or result in a significant reduction in the scope or invalidation of our patents. Any limitation in claim scope could reduce our ability to negotiate future collaborative research and development agreements based on these patents. Moreover, the issuance of a patent in one country does not assure the issuance of a patent with similar claim scope in another country, and claim interpretation and infringement laws vary among countries, so we are unable to predict the extent of patent protection in any country. In certain cases, we are reliant on our collaborator to file, negotiate and maintain patents covering a licensed product. Our collaborators may fail to adequately obtain and maintain such patents. In addition to seeking the protection of patents and licenses, we also rely upon trade secrets, know-how and continuing technological innovation that we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, suppliers and licensees. If these agreements are not honored, we might not have adequate remedies for any breach. Additionally, our trade secrets might otherwise become known or patented by our competitors. Our operations might be affected by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event. We depend on our clients, investigators, collaboration partners, our own laboratories and other facilities for the continued operation of our business. Although we have contingency plans in effect for natural disasters or other catastrophic events, these events, including terrorist attacks, pandemic flu, hurricanes and ice storms, could still disrupt our operations or those of our clients, investigators and collaboration partners, which could also affect us. Even though we carry business interruption insurance policies and typically have provisions in our contracts that protect us in certain events, we might suffer losses as a result of business interruptions that exceed the coverage available under our insurance policies or for which we do not have coverage. Any natural disaster or catastrophic event affecting us or our clients, investigators or collaboration partners could have a significant negative impact on our operations and financial performance. Our development operations might be affected if there was a disruption to the air travel system. Our global central laboratories and some of our other development services rely heavily on air travel for transport of clinical trial kits, other materials and people, and disruption to the air travel system could have a material adverse effect on our business. While we have developed contingency plans for a variety of events that could disrupt or limit available air transportation, these plans might not be effective or sufficient to avert such a material adverse effect. Risks Related to Our Compound Partnering Business We have relatively limited experience in the drug development business, and our prospects for success in this business remain uncertain and are dependent on third parties with whom we collaborate. It takes many years for a drug development business like ours to generate revenue and income. We established our Discovery Sciences segment in 1997 and have relatively limited experience with development activities and might not be successful in our drug development efforts. Generating revenue and income, consistently or at all, from our drug development business and compound partnering activities will depend on our ability to: • develop products internally or obtain rights to them from others on favorable terms; • successfully complete non-clinical and clinical studies; • obtain clinical trial materials of sufficient quality or quantity; • obtain and maintain intellectual property rights to these products; • obtain and maintain regulatory approvals; • enter into agreements with third parties to continue the development and commercialization of drug candidates; and • enter into arrangements with third parties to manufacture products on our behalf and to provide sales and marketing functions. 30 Table of Contents Our ability to succeed in our drug development business will depend on successfully executing existing and new arrangements we enter into for the development and commercialization of drug candidates. The third parties that we collaborate with might not perform their obligations as expected or they might breach or terminate their agreements with us or otherwise fail to conduct their collaborative activities successfully and in a timely manner. Further, parties collaborating with us might elect not to develop the product candidates or not to devote sufficient resources to the development, manufacture, regulatory strategy and approvals, marketing or sale of these product candidates. If the parties to our collaborative agreements do not fulfill their obligations, elect not to develop a candidate or fail to devote sufficient resources to it, we could be materially and adversely affected. If our product identification efforts are not successful, we might not be able to effectively develop new products. Our product candidates are in various stages of development and some are in an early development stage. Some or all of our product candidates may never be developed for any number of reasons, including failure to meet clinical trial tests and failure to receive regulatory approval. For example, we suspended our program for the MAG-131 compound due to efficacy data that was discovered in late 2009. To maintain our business, we need to have a sufficient pipeline of product candidates. Our success in identifying new product candidates depends upon our ability to identify and validate new targets through our dermatology program and/or in-licensing or collaborative arrangements. In order to increase the possibilities of identifying compounds with a reasonable chance for success in clinical studies, part of our business strategy is to identify a higher number of potential targets than we expect to be able to progress through clinical development. If we are unsuccessful in our efforts to identify or obtain rights to new product candidates that lead to the required regulatory approvals and the successful commercialization of products, our business could be harmed. Many of our drug candidates are in early stages of development and we might not be able to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates. The development and commercialization of pharmaceutical products are subject to extensive governmental regulation in the United States and foreign countries. Government approvals are required to develop, market and sell the potential drug candidates we develop alone or with others under our risk-sharing arrangements. Especially for the early-stage compounds we target for in-licensing, obtaining government approval to develop, market and sell drug candidates is time-consuming and expensive. Further, clinical trial results for a particular drug candidate might not satisfy requirements to obtain government approvals. For example, in late 2005, Janssen-Cilag, our collaborator on dapoxetine, received a “not approvable” letter from the FDA. In addition, governmental approvals might not be received in a timely manner, if at all, and we and our collaborative partners might not be able to meet other regulatory requirements for our products. For example, in late 2008, the FDA notified Takeda that it would not be able to complete its review of the alogliptin NDA before the Prescription Drug Use Fee Act date due to the lack of internal resources. In addition, requirements for government approval to market and sell drug candidates are subject to change. For example, the Division of Endocrinologic and Metabolic Drug Products in the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research decided that concerns about cardiovascular risk should be more thoroughly addressed during drug development programs, and, in December 2008, issued final guidance on the topic titled “Guidance for Industry – Diabetes Mellitus – Evaluating Cardiovascular Risk in New Antidiabetic Therapies to Treat Type 2 Diabetes”. As a result, in June 2009 and September 2009, the FDA issued complete responses to Takeda on its NDAs for the alogliptin montherapy and the fixed-dose combination of alogliptin and Actos requesting additional cardiovascular safety data required by the new guidance. Finally, even if we are successful in obtaining all required approvals to market and sell a drug candidate, post-approval requirements and the failure to comply with other regulations could result in suspension or limitation of government approvals. In connection with drug development activities outside the United States, we and our collaborators will be subject to foreign regulatory requirements governing the testing, approval, manufacture, labeling, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products. These requirements vary from country to country. Even if approval has been obtained for a product in the United States, approvals in foreign countries must be obtained prior to marketing the product in those countries. The approval process in foreign countries may be more or less rigorous and the time required for approval may be longer or shorter than that required in the United States. Clinical studies conducted outside of any particular country may not be accepted by that country, and the approval of a pharmaceutical product in one country does not assure that the product will be approved in another country. 31 Table of Contents We must protect our patent and other intellectual property rights to succeed. Our success is dependent in significant part on our ability to develop and protect patent and other intellectual property rights and operate without infringing the intellectual property rights of others. Our pending patent applications might not result in the issuance of valid patents or the claim scope of our issued patents may not provide competitive advantages. Also, our patent protection might not prevent others from developing competitive products using related or other technology that does not infringe our patent rights. In addition, our patent for Priligy is for method of use and not composition of matter. Further, patent applications are confidential for a period of time after filing. We therefore might not know that a competitor has filed a patent application covering subject matter similar to subject matter in one of our patent applications or that we were the first to invent the innovation we seek to patent. This might lead to disputes including interference proceeding or litigation to determine rights to patentable subject matter. These disputes are often expensive and might result in our being unable to patent an innovation. The scope, enforceability and effective term of patents can be highly uncertain and often involve complex legal and factual questions and proceedings. No consistent policy has emerged regarding the breadth of claims in pharmaceutical or biotechnology patents, so that even issued patents might later be modified or revoked by the relevant patent authorities or courts. These proceedings could be expensive, last several years and either prevent issuance of additional patents to us or result in a significant reduction in the scope or invalidation of our patents. Any limitation in claim scope could reduce our ability to negotiate future collaborative research and development agreements based on these patents. Moreover, the issuance of a patent in one country does not assure the issuance of a patent with similar claim scope in another country, and claim interpretation and infringement laws vary among countries, so we are unable to predict the extent of patent protection in any country. In addition to seeking the protection of patents and licenses, we also rely upon trade secrets, know-how and continuing technological innovation that we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, suppliers and licensees. If these agreements are not honored, we might not have adequate remedies for any breach. Additionally, our trade secrets might otherwise become known or patented by our competitors. We might need to obtain patent licenses from others in order to manufacture or sell our potential products and we might not be able to obtain these licenses on terms acceptable to us or at all. Other companies, universities and research institutions might obtain patents that could limit our ability to use, import, manufacture, market or sell our products or impair our competitive position. As a result, we might need to obtain licenses from others before we could continue using, importing, manufacturing, marketing, or selling our products. We might not be able to obtain required licenses on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we do not obtain required licenses, we might encounter significant delays in product development while we redesign potentially infringing products or methods or we might not be able to market our products at all. If our collaborations are not successful or are terminated by our collaborators, we might not effectively develop and market some of our product candidates. We have agreements under which we rely on collaborators to manufacture our product candidates and essential components for those product candidates, design and conduct clinical trials, compile and analyze the data received from these trials, obtain regulatory approvals and, if approved, market these products. As a result, we may have limited or no control over the manufacturing, development and marketing of these potential products. In addition, the performance of our collaborators may not be sufficient or appropriate for regulatory review and approval for our product candidates. Further, we often rely on one manufacturer or other collaborator for such services, the loss of which could significantly delay the development of any of our drug candidates. If any of the third parties that we rely on do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we might be delayed or may not obtain regulatory approval for or be able to commercialize our product candidates. If any of the third parties upon whom we rely to conduct our clinical trials do not comply with applicable laws, 32 Table of Contents successfully carry out their obligations or meet expected deadlines, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated. If the quality or accuracy of the clinical data obtained by third party contractors is compromised due to their failure to adhere to applicable laws, our clinical protocols or for other reasons, we might not obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize any of our product candidates. If our relationships with any of these organizations or individuals terminates, we believe that we would be able to enter into arrangements with alternative third parties. However, replacing any of these third parties could delay our clinical trials and could jeopardize our ability to obtain regulatory approvals and commercialize our product candidates on a timely basis, if at all. Our collaborators can terminate our collaborative agreements under certain conditions, and possibly on short notice. A collaborator may terminate its agreement with us or separately pursue alternative products, therapeutic approaches or technologies as a means of developing treatments for the diseases targeted by us, or our collaborative effort. Even if a collaborator continues to contribute to the arrangement, it may nevertheless decide not to actively pursue the development or commercialization of any resulting products. In these circumstances, our ability to pursue potential products could be severely limited. While we generally seek non-compete terms in our agreements with our collaborators for the products we are developing, the enforcement of a non-compete can be expensive and difficult to monitor and enforce and might be subject to being invalidated by a court or judge. The willingness of our existing collaborators to continue development of our potential products and our ability to enter into new relationships depends upon, among other things, our patent position with respect to such products. If we are unable to successfully obtain and maintain our patents, we might be unable to collect royalties on existing licensed products or enter into additional agreements. In addition, our collaborators might independently develop products that are competitive with products that we have licensed to them. This could reduce our revenues or the likelihood of achieving revenues under our agreements with these collaborators. We or our collaborators might not be able to enroll a sufficient number of sites or enroll a sufficient number of patients in a timely manner in order to complete our clinical trials. The rate of completion of clinical trials is significantly dependent upon the rate of patient enrollment. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including: • the size of the patient population; • perceived risks and benefits of the drug under study; • availability of competing therapies, including those in clinical development; • availability of clinical drug supply; • participation of qualified clinical trial sites; • availability and willingness of potential participants to enroll in clinical trials; • design of the protocol; • proximity of and access by patients to clinical sites; • patient referral practices of physicians; • eligibility criteria for the study in question; and • efforts of the sponsor of and clinical sites involved in the trial to facilitate timely enrollment. We might have difficulty obtaining sufficient patient enrollment or clinician support to conduct our clinical trials as planned, and we might need to expend additional funds to obtain access to resources or delay or modify our plans significantly. These considerations might result in our being unable to successfully achieve our projected development timelines, or potentially even lead us to consider the termination of ongoing clinical trials or development of a product for a particular indication. 33 Table of Contents Even if one of our in-licensed drug candidates successfully completes Phase II clinical trial testing, we will need to have a collaborator for final development and commercialization of that drug candidate or undertake those activities on our own. We generally conduct our drug development business in two stages. During the first stage, we in-license a drug candidate from a collaborator and develop that candidate through Phase II clinical trials. If the drug candidate successfully completes Phase II testing, we enter a second stage during which we seek a collaborator, which might be the same collaborator as in the first stage, for the continued late stage development and ultimate commercialization of the drug candidate. If we cannot find a collaborator for final development and commercialization, we might not be able to complete the development and commercialization on our own due to the significant costs associated with these activities. As a result, we may not be able to recoup all or any part of our investment in the drug candidate. Risks Related to Our Proposed Spin-Off There can be no assurance that the spin-off will be completed or will not be delayed. In October 2009, our board of directors authorized management to proceed with preparations to spin-off our compound partnering business from our core CRO business. If completed, the spin-off will result in two independent public companies. We filed a Form 10 Registration Statement with the SEC under the name of our wholly owned subsidiary that will own and operate the compound partnering business after the spin-off, Furiex Pharmaceuticals, Inc., on February 24, 2010. We expect to complete this separation by the middle of 2010. Our ability to timely effect the spin-off is subject to several conditions, including obtaining required regulatory approvals, the receipt of a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service and an independent tax opinion that the spin-off will be tax-free to PPD and its shareholders and the necessary consents of third parties. The failure to obtain necessary approvals and consents could delay or make impractical our plan to affect the spin-off. We cannot assure that we will be able to complete the spin-off in a timely fashion, if at all. If the planned spin-off is delayed or not consummated for any reason, we will not realize the anticipated benefits of the proposed spin-off as expected or not at all, including the elimination of future research and development expenses under our existing compound partnering collaboration, which, if incurred, could have a material impact on our financial statements. The spin-off process has diverted the attention of our management and employees, increased our professional services expenses, may disrupt our operations and could cause other difficulties. The process to plan for and effect the spin-off of our compound partnering business operations will continue to demand a significant amount of time and effort from our management and employees. The diversion of our management’s and employees’ attention to the spin-off process may disrupt our core business operations. In addition, we will continue to incur significant expenditures for professional services in connection with our planning and implementation of the spin-off, including investment banking, accounting and legal fees. Risks Related to Owning Our Stock You might not receive any dividends, and the reduction or elimination of dividends might negatively affect the market price of our common stock. We began paying dividends as a public company in late 2005. Future dividend payments are not guaranteed and are within the absolute discretion of our board of directors. You might not receive any dividends as a result of any of the following factors: • we are not obligated to pay dividends; • our board of directors could modify or revoke the dividend policy at any time and for any reason; • even if the dividend policy is not modified or revoked, our board of directors could decide to reduce dividends or not to pay any dividends at all, at any time and for any reason; • the amount of dividends distributed is subject to state law restrictions; • new credit facilities or other agreements could limit the amount of dividends we are permitted to pay; and • our stockholders have no contractual or other legal right to dividends. 34 Table of Contents Our dividend policy is based upon our current assessment of the cash needs of our business and the environment in which it operates. That assessment could change due to, among other things, changes in general economic and financial market conditions, our results of operations, cash requirements, financial condition, contractual restrictions, growth opportunities, acquisitions, competitive or technological developments, provisions of applicable law and other factors that our board of directors might deem relevant. The reduction or elimination of dividends might negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Our dividend policy and stock repurchase plan might limit our ability to pursue other growth opportunities. Our board of directors has adopted an annual cash dividend policy which reflects an intention to distribute to our shareholders via regular quarterly dividends a portion of the cash generated by our business that exceeds our operating needs and capital expenditures. In addition, our board of directors authorized the Company to repurchase up to $350.0 million of its common stock from time to time in the open market. As of December 31, 2009, $260.7 million remained available for share repurchases under the stock repurchase program. In developing the dividend policy and the stock repurchase plan, we have made assumptions for and judgments about our expected results of operations, anticipated levels of capital expenditures, income taxes and working capital. Payment of dividends or stock repurchases, if any, could limit our ability to finance any material expansion of our business, including through acquisitions, investments or increased capital spending, or to fund our operations. Because our stock price is volatile, our stock price could experience substantial declines. The market price of our common stock has historically experienced and might continue to experience volatility. Our quarterly operating results or anticipated future results, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets, both of which experienced uncertainty in 2009 due to the global financial crisis, and other developments affecting us or our competitors have caused and could continue to cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. These factors include ones beyond our control, such as changes in revenue and earnings estimates by analysts, market conditions within our industry, disclosures by product development partners and actions by regulatory authorities with respect to potential drug candidates, changes in pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries and the government sponsored clinical research sector. In addition, in recent years, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. The stock market, and in particular the market for pharmaceutical and biotechnology company stocks, has also experienced significant decreases in value in the past. This volatility and valuation decline have affected the market prices of securities issued by many companies, often for reasons unrelated to their operating performance, and might adversely affect the price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 35 Table of Contents 