risk factors and a life expectancy of at least 10 years should begin regular annual medical exams at the age of 50, and believes that physicians should offer, as a part of the exam, the prostate-specific antigen, or PSA, blood test and a digital rectal examination to detect any lumps in the prostate. The PSA blood test determines the amount of prostate specific antigen present in the blood. PSA is found in a protein secreted by the prostate, and elevated levels of PSA can be associated with, among other things, prostatitis, a non-cancerous inflammatory condition, or a proliferation of cancer cells in the prostate. Transrectal ultrasound tests and biopsies are typically performed on patients with elevated PSA readings to confirm the existence of cancer. Approximately 90 percent of all prostate cancers diagnosed in the United States are local or regional according to the American Cancer Society. Thus, approximately 200,000 patients per year are candidates for definitive local therapies including cryoablation. In addition; it is estimated that approximately 55,000 patients formerly diagnosed and treated for prostate cancer in the United States each year are diagnosed with recurrent prostate cancer following previous radiation therapy. With the increasing utilization of radiation therapy, primarily brachytherapy and external beam radiation for initial treatment in prostate cancer, we believe that this number will increase. For recurrent tumors that are detected while still localized, we believe cryoablation is an appropriate procedure with typically fewer side effects than salvage radical prostatectomy. Non-Cryosurgical Treatment Options Current treatment options for patients with prostate cancer include radical prostatectomy, radiation therapy, hormone or other therapies, “watchful waiting,” and cryosurgery. These options are evaluated using a number of criteria, including the patient’s age, physical condition and stage of the disease. Due to the slow progression of the disease, however, the decision for treatment is typically based upon the severity of the condition and the resulting quality of life. Radical prostatectomy has been used for over 30 years and is most often the therapy of choice due to the surgeon’s high degree of confidence in surgically removing the cancerous tissue. The procedure is dependent on the skill of the surgeon and is often associated with relatively high incidence of post-operative impotence and incontinence and can even result in operative mortality. Radical prostatectomy often requires a three- to five-day hospital stay for patient recovery and therefore a higher cost to the medical facility than cryoablation. Radiation therapy for prostate cancer includes both external radiation beam and interstitial radioactive seed therapies. External beam radiation therapy emerged as one of the first alternatives to radical prostatectomy. Interstitial radioactive seed therapy, also referred to as brachytherapy, is the permanent placement of radioactive seeds in the prostate. Other therapies, primarily consisting of hormone therapy and chemotherapy, are used to slow the growth of cancer and reduce tumor size, but are generally not intended to be curative. These therapies are often used during advanced stages of the disease to extend life and to relieve symptoms. Side effects of hormonal drug therapy include 2 Table of Contents increased development of breasts and other feminine physical characteristics, hot flashes, impotence and decreased libido. In addition, many hormone pharmaceuticals artificially lower PSA levels in patients, which can interfere with the staging of the disease and the monitoring of its progress. Side effects of chemotherapy include nausea, hair loss and fatigue. Drug therapy and chemotherapy require long-term, repeated administration of medication on an outpatient basis. “Watchful waiting” is recommended by physicians in certain circumstances based upon the severity and growth rate of the disease, as well as the age and life expectancy of the patient. The aim of watchful waiting is to monitor the patient, treat some of the attendant symptoms and determine when more active intervention is required. Watchful waiting has gained popularity among those patients refusing treatment due to side effects associated with radical prostatectomy. Watchful waiting requires periodic physician visits and PSA monitoring. A study published in the Journal of the American Medical Association in December 2006, consisting of 44,630 men between the ages of 65 and 80, found that those patients who chose to treat their prostate cancer were 31 percent less likely to die than those who waited. This suggests that all patients with localized disease regardless of age should consider definitive treatments rather than watchful waiting. The History of Cryosurgery Cryosurgery, freezing tissue to destroy tumor cells, was first developed in the 1960’s. During this period, the use of “cold probes,” or cryoprobes, was explored as a method to kill prostate tissue without resorting to radical prostatectomy. Although effective in killing cancer cells, the inability to control the amount of tissue frozen during the procedure prevented broad use and development of cryosurgery for prostate cancer. These initial limitations in the application of cryosurgery continue to contribute to a lack of widespread acceptance of the procedure today. In the late 1980’s, progress in ultrasound imaging allowed for a revival in the use of cryosurgery. Using ultrasound, the cryoprobe may be guided to the targeted tissue from outside the body percutaneously. The physician activates the cryoprobe and uses ultrasound to monitor the growth of ice in the prostate as it is occurring. When the ice encompasses the entire prostate, the probe is turned off. This feedback mechanism of watching the therapy as it is administered allows the physician more precise control during application. Long term data suggest that prostate cryosurgery may be able to deliver disease-free rates comparable to radical surgery and radiation, but with the benefit of lower rates of incontinence and mortality, shorter recovery periods and relatively minimal complications. Endocare Cryosurgery Technology Development We have sought to develop our technology over time to increase the safety and efficacy of our products. In 1996, we developed our first generation eight-probe argon-based cryosurgical system. Argon allows for room temperature gas to safely pass through the cryoprobe to create a highly sculpted repeatable ice ball. In 1997, we incorporated temperature-monitoring software to allow for continual feedback from the thermocouple tips. In 1998, we launched our CryoGuide intraoperative planning software, which allowed physicians better planning and targeting technology for use during a procedure. In 2000, we launched our 2.4mm Direct Access cryoprobe and CryoGrid which we believe shortened the time necessary to perform a procedure and added to the safety and ease of the procedure. In 2002 we developed and launched AutoFreeze, our innovative software technology that provides computer-controlled automated freeze/thaw cycles. In 2003, we launched our second generation Cryocare Surgical System, which we refer to as “Cryocare CS,” which integrated all the past and latest technology, including an on-board, integrated ultrasound device, into one complete system. At the Annual Meeting of the American Urological Association in May 2006, we introduced the first variable cryoablation probe, referred to as the V-Probe. The V-Prove provides physicians the ability to “sculpt” different sized isotherms (ice balls) to encompass tumors and tissues based on individual patient anatomy and needs. As previously announced, we currently are in the planning and design stage for the development of a nitrogen-based cryoablation system, which we refer to as the Cryocare CN2 System. Once development is complete, we expect to market the Cryocare CN2 System primarily to our interventional radiology and oncology customers and to customers in international markets where argon gas is not widely available. 3 Table of Contents Our System Solution: Cryocare CS We believe Cryocare CS is the most sophisticated prostate cryosurgery system currently available and combines the latest technology to enhance the speed and effectiveness of the procedure. Exclusive features of the Cryocare CS include an on-board training module, integrated color Doppler ultrasound designed specifically for the needs of prostate cryosurgery, CryoGuide our patented intraoperative planning module, and AutoFreeze our patented treatment software that provides computer-controlled automated freeze/thaw cycles based upon target endpoint temperatures and continual feedback from the thermocouple tips. The argon gas-based Cryocare CS accommodates up to eight independently operated cryoprobes and six thermocouples to allow physicians to monitor temperatures of tissue adjacent to the prostate in real-time. Our proprietary suite of cryoprobes is engineered to consistently produce sculpted ice conforming to the unique anatomy of the prostate. Our vacuum-insulated DirectAccess CryoProbes help deliver lethal ice in a controllable and repeatable fashion. Our CryoGrid, which is similar to a brachytherapy grid, is affixed to the ultrasound stepper and aids the physician with placement of the cryoprobes so that ice formation and lethal temperatures occur where necessary to destroy cancerous tissue but do not affect areas where tissue damage could cause harm. We believe cryosurgery is the first minimally invasive procedure that urologists can perform independently. With radiation therapies, urologists must refer the patient for treatment to a radiation oncologist. Cryosurgery offers the urologist both the opportunity to maintain continuity of patient care and to generate additional revenue. Key Clinical Advantages of Our Cryocare CS System Cryocare CS provides the following potential clinical advantages relative to other principal treatment options for prostate cancer: • High quality of life following treatment. Our minimally invasive procedure typically offers patients a short recovery period for prostate cancer therapy and may result in a lower incidence of certain side effects, including incontinence. • Treatment of patients who have failed radiation therapy. Patients who have failed radiation therapy have limited options. Cryosurgery is an option that can be used to treat these patients effectively with potentially fewer side effects than radical surgery. • Treatment can be performed more than once. Regardless of what therapy is chosen there is always a chance that the cancer will recur. Unlike radiation therapy or surgery, cryosurgery can be repeated without increased morbidity. • Focal or partial gland treatment. Focal cryoablation is a prostate cancer treatment in which the ablation is confined to the known tumor location, thereby sparing surrounding tissue. Marketing and Strategy Cryosurgical Products Our objective in urology is to establish cryosurgery as a primary treatment option for prostate and renal cancers. Our earlier commercial efforts were focused on direct-sales to hospitals and distributor sales of systems to third party service providers who would provide systems and technicians to hospitals where cryosurgical procedures were performed. In 2003, we redirected our urology strategy away from attempting to drive acceptance of cryoablation through sales of capital equipment into the urology market. Our primary objective for the urology portion of our business is now to grow market share, measured in terms of procedures and revenues, by establishing cryosurgery as a primary treatment option for prostate and renal cancers. In 2004, 2005 and 2006, we derived a significant percentage of our revenues from recurring sales of disposable products used with the Cryocare Surgical System. A cryoablation procedure requires the necessary disposable products usually provided in the form of a kit. In addition to the disposable devices, there is a service component. This service component consists of transportation and provision of equipment used in the procedure, plus the services of a technician to assist the urologist with use 4 Table of Contents and monitoring of this equipment. In addition to the use of a Cryocare Surgical System, an ultrasound device is needed for visual monitoring of the prostate and ice formation, unless our Cryocare CS is used, since the Cryocare CS includes an on-board, integrated ultrasound unit. Tanks of argon and helium gas are needed for freezing and warming during the procedure. Frequently, this equipment is not stored on site but is mobilized and brought into the hospital for procedures by an independent third party who performs the service component of the procedure. For urology procedures we typically sell the disposable devices to hospitals either as part of a procedure fee or separately, that is, without the service component. We also continue to sell our Cryocare Surgical Systems both to hospitals and service providers. For interventional radiology we will often place a system with a new customer under our placement program and sell cryoprobes directly to the hospitals or enter into an agreement to provide cryoablation services to the hospital, which includes providing the equipment, technicians and cryoablation disposable products necessary to perform the procedures. These agreements generally include the services of a third party provider contracted by us or the hospital to provide these services. An important challenge we face in the prostate cancer market is to overcome initial reluctance on the part of urologists to embrace cryosurgery and to educate physicians so that they are able to incorporate cryosurgery into their primary treatment regimen. Part of this reluctance is due to clinical failures experienced during earlier efforts to introduce the technology by other companies. See above under “The History of Cryosurgery.” In addition, we compete with other therapies that have proven effective in treating prostate cancer. Over 30 years of clinical data exist documenting the safety and efficacy of radical prostatectomy for prostate cancer. There are 20 years of clinical data supporting use of various forms of radiation treatment options such as brachytherapy and beam radiation treatments, which we estimate are used to treat over one third of all prostate cancer cases each year in the United States. We believe cryoablation has clinical advantages for many patients over both the current most popular forms of treatment. While there are long-term clinical data available on radical prostatectomy, this treatment approach, typical of surgery in general, is characterized by a long recovery period combined with a relatively high incidence of side effects, including impotence and urinary incontinence. The appeal of radiation as a treatment alternative, particularly to patients, is that it is less invasive than surgery. Like radiation, cryosurgery is less invasive and therefore has potentially fewer side effects than radical prostatectomy. Unlike radiation treatments, however, cryosurgical treatments can be repeated on the same patient. In fact, our initial clinical successes in prostate cancer treatment were in treating patients who had failed radiation therapy. We also believe that cryosurgery has significant economic benefits for payers. These benefits include shorter hospital stays for recovery and shorter procedure time as compared to radical prostatectomy, long term hormone treatment or radiation therapies, resulting in reduced expense to the payer. Key elements in our strategy for overcoming the challenges we face in establishing cryosurgery as a primary treatment option for prostate cancer are: • Increasing awareness in the urological community regarding the clinical benefits of cryosurgery through our presence at major technical meetings and trade shows, publication of numerous scientific papers and articles on cryosurgery and formation of a scientific advisory board to provide guidance and counsel to us regarding clinical matters and physician education; • Conducting clinical studies to further demonstrate the safety and efficacy of cryosurgery as a primary treatment of prostate cancer; • Conducting clinical studies to further demonstrate the safety and efficacy of cryosurgery as a salvage treatment for prostate cancer patients who have failed radiation treatments; • Conducting clinical studies to further demonstrate the safety and efficacy of cryosurgery as a treatment for renal tumors which is another important component of the urology market for cryosurgery; • Creating a significant number of new practicing cryosurgeons each year through our physician education program; • Endeavoring to ensure that reimbursement for cryosurgery by Medicare and other payers is appropriate given the costs and benefits of the treatment; 5 Table of Contents • Driving patient awareness through our direct-to-consumer advertising programs; and • Marketing our products to physicians and hospitals through our direct sales force. Because of our initial concentration on prostate cancer, the majority of our sales and marketing resources are directed towards the promotion of cryoablation technology to urologists for the treatment of prostate and renal cancers. However, we are also, however, expanding the reach of our technology across a number of other markets, including ablation of tumors in the lung and liver, as well as for palliative intervention (treatment of pain associated with metastases). Procedures for treatment of these cancers are typically performed percutaneously, using CT scanning technology, and are provided by interventional radiologists. In order to better understand and address the distinct needs of this new market, we have formed a dedicated sales team to work in developing these opportunities for application of our cryosurgical technology. Key elements in our strategy to establish new markets for cryosurgical treatment of tumors, specifically in the interventional radiology and radiation oncology markets, are: • Conducting key clinical studies to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of cryosurgery as a primary treatment for lung and liver tumors as well as for palliative intervention (treatment of pain associated with metastases), and • Formation of a dedicated sales group focused on the opportunities for cryosurgical treatment approaches in these new markets. Products We currently market the following products: Prostate and Renal Cancer: • Cryocare Surgical System — A cryosurgical system with eight cryoprobe capability. • Cryocare CS System — A Cryocare Surgical System with onboard ultrasound. • CryoGuide — A computerized cryoprobe placement, simulation and guidance system for cryosurgery. • Cryoprobes — Disposable probes used with the Cryocare Surgical System. • FasTrac — Percutaneous access device that allows one-step insertion of cryoprobes. Additional Cryosurgical Markets: • Cryocare Surgical System — A cryosurgical system with eight cryoprobe capability specially configured for interventional radiology and oncology. Raw Materials We rely on third party suppliers to provide certain critical components for all of our product lines. In certain cases, the suppliers are our sole source of supply for these components. Our policy is to enter into long-term supply agreements that require suppliers to maintain adequate inventory levels and which contain other terms and conditions protecting us against unforeseen interruptions in their production. We endeavor to maintain adequate stock levels at our own locations to ensure an uninterrupted source of supply. We typically seek to establish secondary sources of supply or other manufacturing alternatives. Nevertheless, despite these efforts, it is possible that we may experience an interruption in supply of one or more of our critical components resulting in backorders to our customers. However, we believe that we could locate alternative sources of supply upon such terms and within such a timeframe as would not result in a material adverse effect on our business. Patents and Intellectual Property As of December 31, 2006, we have rights to 41 issued United States patents relating to cryosurgical ablative technology. Included within these 41 issued United States patents are 5 patents in which we have licensed-in rights. 6 Table of Contents The remainder of the patents are assigned to us. Most of these patents relate to our cryoprobe technology for creating the freeze zone and precisely controlling the shape of the freeze zone produced by the cryoprobes. Additionally, certain patents relate to our computer guided system for assisting surgeons in properly placing cryoprobes in a patient, a computer-controlled cryosurgery apparatus and method, a cryosurgical integrated control and monitoring system and urethral warming technology. We also have rights to 17 pending United States patent applications relative to cryosurgical ablative technology. Additionally, we have rights to 39 foreign patents and pending foreign patent applications in this technology area. The earliest of our patents do not expire until 2011. Most of the earliest patents in our core technology area do not expire until about 2016. Our policy is to secure and protect intellectual property rights relating to our technology through patenting inventions and licensing others when necessary. While we believe that the protection of patents and licenses is important to our business, we also rely on trade secrets, know-how and continuing technological innovation to maintain our competitive position. Given our technology and patent portfolio, we do not consider the operation of our business to be materially dependent upon any one patent, group of patents or single technological innovation. Our policy is to sell our products under trademarks and to secure trademark protection in the United States and elsewhere where we deem such protection important. No assurance can be given that our processes or products will not infringe patents or other intellectual property rights of others or that any license required would be made available under any such patents or intellectual property rights, on terms acceptable to us or at all. In the past, we have received correspondence alleging infringement of intellectual property rights of third parties. No assurance can be given that any relevant claims of third parties would not be upheld as valid and enforceable, and therefore we could be prevented from practicing the subject matter claimed or could be required to obtain licenses from the owners of any such intellectual property rights to avoid infringement. We seek to preserve the confidentiality of our technology by entering into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, customers and key vendors and by other means. No assurance can be given, however, that these measures will prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of such technology. Research Strategy Our research goal is to develop innovative cryoablation technology that dramatically improves patient outcomes. Our primary focus is on developing devices for the treatment of prostate, kidney, lung and liver tumors and for palliative intervention (treatment of pain associated with metastases). To that end, we endeavor to develop innovations that improve the safety and efficacy of our Cryocare Surgical System, as well as to explore new applications for use of our technology platform in the body. We spent approximately $1.9 million, $2.3 million and $2.8 million for the years ended 2004, 2005 and 2006 respectively, on research and development activities from continuing operations. Sales We sell our products primarily to hospitals and third party service providers and have both domestic and international customers. One of our customers, Advanced Medical Partners, Inc. (AMPI), accounted for 28.8 percent of our net revenues in 2006. The following products and services account for 15 percent or more of total revenues from continuing operations for each of the years ended December 31: 2004 2005 2006 Cryoablation and urological products: Cryocare Surgical Systems * * * Cryoprobes, disposables and procedures 91 % 94 % 94 % Cardiac products (CryoCath) * * * * These products account for less than 15 percent of total revenues. 7 Table of Contents We currently sell our cryosurgical products domestically through our direct sales force, which, as of December 31, 2006 consisted of 38 people, including 33 sales representatives and sales managers and 5 cryosurgical field technicians. Our strategy is to continue to introduce the clinical benefits of cryosurgery to new physicians as well as educating physicians already performing cryosurgery so that they are able to increasingly incorporate cryosurgery into their practice. We also intend to create patient demand by providing education regarding the benefits of cryosurgical therapy versus alternative treatment options and by using national advertising and other programs targeted directly at prostate cancer patients. Internationally, our cryosurgical products are sold primarily through independent distributors. Our international sales from continuing operations represented approximately 8.1 percent, 6.9 percent and 5.8 percent of our total revenue in 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively. As of December 31, 2006, we had no long-lived assets outside of the United States. We derive our revenues from continuing operations from the following geographic regions for each of the years ended December 31, based on shipping destination: 2004 2005 2006 (In thousands) United States $ 22,234 $ 26,322 $ 26,379 International: China 556 567 451 Canada 760 1,015 796 Other 631 370 364 Total international 1,947 1,952 1,611 Total revenues $ 24,181 $ 28,274 $ 27,990 Reimbursement We sell our Cryocare Surgical System and related disposable products to hospitals and third party service companies that provide services to hospitals. Procedures involving the Cryocare Surgical System are performed in hospitals on an inpatient basis. While patients occasionally pay for cryosurgical procedures directly, most patients depend upon third-party payers to pay for their procedures, including Medicare, Medicaid, Tricare and other federal health care programs, as well as private insurers. Accordingly, our revenue is dependent upon third-party reimbursement, particularly Medicare, since the majority of patients receiving prostate cryosurgical treatments using our products are Medicare beneficiaries. The mix of public/private payers for other cryosurgical procedures varies by type of procedure. Medicare reimbursement for cryosurgical procedures using our products as a primary treatment alternative for localized prostate cancer began in July 1999. Effective July 2001, Medicare coverage was approved for secondary cryosurgical treatment of prostate cancer patients who have failed radiation therapy. When Medicare-reimbursed services are provided on an inpatient basis, the hospital is reimbursed under the Medicare prospective payment system, based on the applicable diagnosis related group. A single payment covers all facility services. Outpatient reimbursement for cryosurgical procedures for Medicare beneficiaries is in accordance with the Hospital Outpatient Prospective Payment System, or HOPPS. Under HOPPS, the hospital is paid on a per procedure basis, based on the ambulatory payment classification for the procedure. The payment to the hospital includes the per procedure share of the cost for any depreciable equipment, such as our Cryocare Surgical System, and the provision of disposable devices, such as our temperature probes and cryoprobes. Clinical studies are underway regarding percutaneous cryoablation of cancerous tissue in the kidney, lung and liver and palliative intervention for pain associated with metastases. After studies are complete coverage decisions and unique reimbursement codes will be sought from Medicare and private payers. As of December 31, 2006, no 8 Table of Contents such codes were in place except for a tracking code established for percutaneous renal cryoablation. This tracking code is a significant step towards assignment of a Category I CPT code and wider acceptance for payment. Clearance to market a new device or technology by the FDA does not guarantee payment by Medicare or other payers. Future devices and technology that we develop would have to be approved for coverage by Medicare after we obtain FDA approval or clearance. The Medicare approval process is lengthy and there is no assurance that Medicare approval would be granted. Each private insurer makes its own determination whether to cover a device or procedure and sets its own reimbursement rate. Backlog As of December 31, 2006, we had no backlog for our products. Our policy is to carry enough inventory to be able to ship most orders within a few days of receipt of order. Historically, most of our orders have been for shipment within 30 days of the placement of the order. Therefore, we rely on orders placed during a given period for sales during that period. Manufacturing We manufacture our Cryocare Surgical System and related disposables at our facilities in Irvine, California. Our facility has been inspected by the California Department of Health Services and has been issued a Device Manufacturing License. Our current manufacturing facility has been subjected to Quality System Regulation compliance inspections by the FDA most recently in June 2004, and also in February and March 2003 and September 2002. These audits have been closed by the FDA. We most recently received ISO 13485:2003, CE Marking and Canadian CMDCAS certifications, indicating compliance with European standards for a robust Quality Management System, quality assurance and manufacturing process control. Government Regulation Governmental regulation in the United States and other countries is a significant factor affecting the research and development, manufacture and marketing of medical devices, including our products. In the United States, the FDA has broad authority under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (the FD&C Act) to regulate the distribution, manufacture, marketing and sale of medical devices. Foreign sales of medical devices are subject to foreign governmental regulation and restrictions that vary from country to country. Medical devices intended for human use in the United States are classified into one of three categories, depending upon the degree of regulatory control to which they will be subject. Such devices are classified by regulation into either Class I general controls, Class II special standards or Class III pre-market approval, depending upon the level of regulatory control required to provide reasonable assurance of the safety and effectiveness of the device. Most Class I devices are exempt from pre-market notification or approval. Class II devices are subject to the pre-market notification requirements under Section 510(k) of the FD&C Act. For a 510(k) to be cleared by the FDA, the manufacturer must demonstrate to the FDA that a device is substantially equivalent to another legally marketed device that was either cleared through the 510(k) process or on the market prior to 1976. It generally takes four to twelve months from the date of submission to obtain 510(k) clearance although it may take longer, in particular if clinical trials are required. Class III devices generally include the most risky devices as well as devices that are not substantially equivalent to other legally marketed devices. To obtain approval to market a Class III device, a manufacturer must obtain FDA approval of a pre-market approval application, or PMA. The PMA process requires more data, takes longer and is typically a significantly more complex and expensive process than the 510(k) procedure. Our Cryocare Surgical Systems have been cleared for marketing through the 510(k) process. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to obtain clearances or approvals for clinical testing or for manufacturing and sales of our existing products for all applications in all targeted markets, or that we will be able to 9 Table of Contents obtain clearances or approvals needed to introduce new products and technologies. After a device is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements apply. These include: • quality system regulation, which requires manufacturers to follow design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during the manufacturing process; • labeling regulations, which prohibit the promotion of products for unapproved or “off-label” uses and impose other restrictions on labeling; and • medical device reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the FDA if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in enforcement action by the FDA, which may include any of the following sanctions: • fines, injunctions, and civil penalties; • recall or seizure of our products; • operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production; • refusing our request for 510(k) clearance or premarket approval of new products; • withdrawing 510(k) clearance or premarket approvals that are already granted; and • criminal prosecution. Medical device laws are also in effect in many of the countries outside of the United States in which we do business. These laws range from comprehensive device approval and quality system requirements for some or all of our medical device products to simple requests for product data or certifications. The number and scope of these requirements are increasing. In June 1998, the European Union Medical Device Directive became effective, and all medical devices must meet the Medical Device Directive standards and receive CE mark certification. CE mark certification involves a comprehensive Quality System program, and submission of data on a product to the Notified Body in Europe. We have obtained the CE mark certification for distribution of our Cryocare Surgical System in Europe and approval for distribution in Australia, Canada, New Zealand, China, Taiwan, Korea and Mexico. Health Care Regulatory Issues The health care industry is highly regulated and the regulatory environment in which we operate may change significantly in the future. In general, regulation of health care-related companies is increasing. We anticipate that Congress and state legislatures will continue to review and assess alternative health care delivery and payment systems. We cannot predict what impact the adoption of any federal or state health care reform measures may have on our business. We regularly monitor developments in statutes and regulations relating to our business. We may be required to modify our agreements, operations, marketing and expansion strategies from time to time in response to changes in the statutory and regulatory environment. We plan to structure all of our agreements, operations, marketing and strategies in accordance with applicable law, although we can provide no assurance that our arrangements will not be challenged successfully or that required changes may not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We believe that the following discussion summarizes all of the material health care regulatory requirements to which we currently are subject. Complying with these regulatory requirements may involve expense to us, delay in our operations and/or restructuring of our business relationships. Violations could potentially result in the imposition of civil and/or criminal penalties. 10 Table of Contents Anti-Kickback Laws The federal health care program “anti-kickback” law prohibits the knowing and willful offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for, or in order to induce, (i) the referral of a person for services, (ii) the furnishing or arranging for the furnishing of items or services or (iii) the purchase, lease or order or arranging or recommending purchasing, leasing or ordering any item or service, in each case, reimbursable under any federal health care program. Because our products are reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid and other federal health care programs, the anti-kickback law applies. Many states have similar anti-kickback or anti-referral laws, and in many cases these laws apply to all patients, not just federal health care program beneficiaries. Noncompliance with, or violation of, the federal anti-kickback law can result in exclusion from federal health care programs and civil and criminal penalties. Similar penalties are provided for violation of state anti-kickback laws. Several federal courts have held that the anti-kickback law is violated if just one purpose of payment is to induce the referral of patients. To the extent that we are deemed to be subject to these federal or similar state laws, we believe that our activities and contemplated activities comply in all material respects with such statutes and regulations. Regulations to the federal anti-kickback law specify payment practices that will not be subject to prosecution under the anti-kickback law. These are known as the “safe-harbors.” Failure to comply fully within a safe-harbor does not mean the practice is per se illegal, and many common arrangements in the health care industry do not fit with a safe harbor, yet are not violations of the anti-kickback law. Rather, if a practice does not fit within a “safe harbor,” no guarantee can be given that the practice will be exempt from prosecution; it will be viewed under the totality of the facts and circumstances. Many of our relationships with customers, such as volume and other discounts, fit within a safe harbor. However, our service agreements with physician-owned entities do not fit completely within a safe harbor. For example, the safe harbor for equipment leases and the safe harbor for personal services both require that the aggregate amount of the rental or service payment be fixed in advance for the term of the arrangement, which must be at least one year. However, where the need for medical procedures is not known in advance, it is sometimes more appropriate to arrange for payment on a per procedure basis, rather than determining a year’s total compensation in advance. For the reasons described below, certain of our arrangements with physician-owned entities provide for payment on a per procedure basis. In the case of cryosurgery, as well as other procedures that involve new or expensive technology, hospitals often do not want to invest in the required capital equipment. Rather, hospitals enter into arrangements with specialty mobile service providers or equipment manufacturers to obtain the use of the necessary equipment and disposable products (such as cryoprobes), as well as technician services, where applicable, on a per procedure basis. In the case of cryosurgical equipment and disposables, some physicians have formed or invested in mobile service providers that provide cryosurgical equipment, disposables and services directly to hospitals. In such cases, our relationship to the physician-owned entities is only as a seller of our products, where discounts are provided in accordance with the discount safe harbor. However, in some cases, we contract directly with hospitals to provide the necessary equipment/disposables and technical support. These contracts generally provide for the hospital to pay for the equipment/disposables and support package on a per procedure basis. Since we are primarily in the business of selling our equipment and disposable products, not providing services, when we contract to provide equipment to hospitals we typically subcontract with a mobile service provider or other equipment owner to furnish the equipment as our subcontractor. A significant number of these businesses are owned entirely or in part by urologists who purchase the equipment in order to make cryosurgery available in their communities. Since the hospitals pay us on a per procedure basis, we in turn pay our subcontractors on a per procedure basis pursuant to service agreements. These service agreements do not meet a safe harbor since, as noted above, the safe harbors for equipment leases and service arrangements require that the aggregate payment for the term of the arrangement must be set in advance. Although the service agreements do not meet a safe harbor, our service agreements with physician-owned entities include the following elements intended to address anti-kickback law concerns: • Physician-owned subcontractors are not compensated or otherwise treated differently than non-physician-owned entities; • The per procedure payments under the subcontracts are intended to reflect fair market value for the products and services provided by the subcontractors; 11 Table of Contents • Subcontracts are in writing and include a number of representations regarding health care regulatory compliance issues, including requiring the subcontractor to represent that distributions to physician owners of the subcontractor are not based on referrals; and • Physicians must make significant investments in order to purchase our equipment. The fact that the physicians have assumed bona fide business risk is an important factor in demonstrating that the arrangement is not simply a way for physicians to profit from their referrals. Patient Referral Laws The Stark law prohibits a physician from referring a Medicare patient for “designated health services,” or DHS, to an entity with which the physician has a direct or indirect financial relationship, whether in the nature of an ownership interest or a compensation arrangement, subject only to limited exceptions. The Stark law also prohibits the recipient of a prohibited referral from billing for the DHS provided pursuant thereto. DHS include inpatient and outpatient hospital services. The entity that bills Medicare for the DHS is considered to be the provider of the DHS for Stark law purposes. Therefore, we are not providers of DHS. Rather, the hospitals where the procedures are performed are the providers of DHS, because they bill Medicare for the cryosurgery procedures, and inpatient and outpatient hospital services are DHS. Physicians who have an ownership or compensation relationship with the entities (such as mobile vendors) that furnish our equipment to hospitals, and the hospitals that obtain equipment and services directly or indirectly from such entities, are considered to have an “indirect compensation arrangement,” and therefore that relationship must meet a Stark law exception in order for the physicians to make DHS referrals to the hospital. There is a Stark law exception for indirect compensation arrangements that applies if: (1) Fair Market Value Compensation. The compensation to the physician under the arrangement (or, if the first link in the chain of arrangements between the parties is an ownership or investment interest by the referring physician, the first entity up the chain that has a direct compensation arrangement with next link in the chain) represents fair market value and is not determined in a manner that takes into account the volume or value of referrals or other business generated by the physician for the DHS entity; (2) Written Contract. The arrangement is set out in writing, signed by the parties and specifies the services covered by the arrangement; and (3) Anti-Kickback Law Compliance. The arrangement does not violate the anti-kickback law. Here, as noted above in connection with discussion of the anti-kickback law, our service agreements are in writing, the per procedure payments are intended to reflect fair market value and are not determined in a manner that takes into account referrals by owner-physicians to the hospital, and we believe that the arrangements do not violate the anti-kickback law. Many states also have patients referrals laws, some of which are more restrictive than the Stark law and regulate referrals by all licensed healthcare practitioners for any health care services to an entity with which the licenses has a financial relationship unless an exception applies. Such laws in particular states may prohibit us from entering into relationships with physicians and physician-owned entities, which may limit business development. HIPAA and Other Privacy Laws As of April 14, 2003, the privacy regulations developed under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, referred to as “HIPAA,” took effect. The privacy regulations place limitations on a “covered entity’s” use and disclosure of identifiable patient information, including research data. While Endocare is not a “covered entity” under HIPAA, Endocare’s relationships with covered entities, such as hospitals and physicians, sometimes implicate HIPAA. Accordingly, Endocare has adopted policies and procedures regarding confidentiality and each employee who comes into contact with Protected Health Information (PHI or patient data) is trained in the proper handling of such information. Endocare has also established procedures to determine when Endocare is required to sign a “business associate agreement” with a covered entity in connection with receipt of PHI and when such measures are not required. 12 Table of Contents We believe that we have implemented appropriate measures to ensure that our relationships with covered entities are appropriate and consistent with HIPAA. However, there are many uncertainties remaining about how HIPAA applies to medical device companies, and no assurance can be given that HIPAA will not be interpreted in a manner that will hamper our ability to conduct medical research and receive medical information for other purposes as well. Other United States Regulatory Requirements In addition to the regulatory framework for product approvals, we are and may be subject to regulation under federal and state laws, including requirements regarding occupational health and safety, laboratory practices and the use, handling and disposing of toxic or hazardous substances. We may also be subject to other present and future local, state, federal and foreign regulations. Seasonality We believe that holidays, major medical conventions and vacations taken by physicians, patients and patient families may have a seasonal impact on our sales of cryosurgical products because cryosurgical procedures can be scheduled in advance. We are continuing to monitor and assess the impact seasonality may have on demand for our products. Competition The medical device industry is subject to intense competition. Significant competitors in the area of prostate cancer and other tumor ablation (renal, liver, lung and palliative intervention) include companies that offer: surgical devices (such as robotic surgery equipment); brachytherapy seeds and other forms of radiation therapy; and ablation products, including cryoablation products and radiofrequency ablation (RFA) products. Additional devices in development such as high intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU), microwave and others may be competitive devices in the future. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial and human resources than we do. We believe that currently only Galil Medical offers cryoablation products that compete with our cryoablation products. However, we believe that our cryoablation products provide superior technology and greater functionality, at a price that is competitive. We believe the principal competitive factors in the cryoablation product market include: • the safety and efficacy of treatment alternatives; • acceptance of a procedure by physicians and patients; • technology leadership and superiority; • price; • availability of government or private insurance reimbursement; and • speed to market. Employees As of December 31, 2006, we had a total of 123 employees. Of these employees, nine are engaged directly in research and development activities, seven in regulatory affairs/quality assurance, 23 in manufacturing, 57 in sales, marketing, clinical support and customer service and 27 in general and administrative positions. We have never experienced a work stoppage, none of our employees are represented by a labor organization, and we consider our employee relations to be good. Available Information Our website address is www.endocare.com. All filings we make with the SEC, including our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and our current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments thereto, 13 Table of Contents are available at no charge through links displayed on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed or furnished to the SEC. The reference to our website address does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on the website, and the information contained on the website is not part of this document. Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our operations. The occurrence of any of the following risks could harm our business. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Associated With our Business We have a limited operating history with significant losses and expect losses to continue for the foreseeable future. We have yet to establish any history of profitable operations. We have incurred annual operating losses from continuing operations of $15.4 million, $16.6 million and $31.6 million, respectively, during the fiscal years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. As a result, at December 31, 2006 we had an accumulated deficit of $176.4 million. We have incurred net losses from continuing operations of $11.1 million, $14.8 million and $31.9 million, respectively, during the fiscal years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. Our revenues have not been sufficient to sustain our operations. We expect that our revenues will not be sufficient to sustain our operations for the foreseeable future. We can give no assurances when or whether we will ever be profitable. We may require additional financing to sustain our operations and without it we may not be able to continue operations. We had an operating cash flow deficit of $13.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 and $14.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The availability of funds under the $16.0 million common stock purchase agreement with Fusion Capital Fund II, LLC (Fusion Capital) and our $4.0 million credit agreement with Silicon Valley Bank is subject to many conditions, some of which are predicated on events that are not within our control. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee that these capital resources will available or will be sufficient to fund our ongoing operations. We only have the right to receive $100,000 every four business days under the agreement with Fusion Capital unless our stock price equals or exceeds $1.50, in which case we can sell greater amounts to Fusion Capital as the price of our common stock increases. Fusion Capital does not have the obligation to purchase any shares of our common stock on any business day that the market price of our common stock is less than $1.00. Since we have authorized 8,000,000 shares for sale to Fusion Capital under the common stock purchase agreement, the selling price of our common stock to Fusion Capital will have to average at least $2.00 per share for us to receive the maximum proceeds of $16.0 million. Assuming a purchase price of $1.75 per share (the closing sale price of the common stock on February 28, 2007) and the purchase by Fusion Capital of the full 8,000,000 shares under the common stock purchase agreement, gross proceeds to us would be $14.0 million. Under the credit agreement, funds available for borrowing are based on eligible trade receivables and inventory as defined. The credit agreement contains a subjective acceleration clause and a requirement to maintain a lockbox with the lender to which all receivable collections are deposited. Under the subjective acceleration clause, the lender may accelerate repayment of amounts borrowed and/or cease making advances to us if it determines that a material adverse change has occurred in our business or our ability to meet our obligations under the agreement. In addition, the proceeds from the lock box will be applied to reduce the outstanding borrowings upon an event default (including the occurrence of a material adverse change) or if trigger events occur. Our ability to access funds under the credit agreement will be subject to our ability to meet all restrictive covenants and comply with all representations and warranties. The extent to which we rely on Fusion Capital as a source of funding will depend on a number of factors including the prevailing market price of our common stock and the extent to which we are able to secure working 14 Table of Contents capital from other sources, such as through the sale of our products. If sufficient financing from Fusion Capital were to prove unavailable or prohibitively dilutive and if we are unable to sell enough of our products, we may need to secure another source of funding in order to satisfy our working capital needs. Even if we are able to access the full $16.0 million under the common stock purchase agreement with Fusion Capital, we may still need additional capital to fully implement our business, operating and development plans. Should the financing we require to sustain our working capital needs be unavailable or prohibitively expensive when we require it, the consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our independent auditor has issued an unqualified opinion with an explanatory paragraph, to the effect that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Even despite the availability of funds from Fusion Capital and Silicon Valley Bank, our independent auditor has issued an unqualified opinion with an explanatory paragraph to the effect that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern due to, among other factors, the subjective acceleration provisions and conditions that must be met in order to access the funds under the Fusion Capital common stock purchase agreement and the Silicon Valley Bank credit facility. This unqualified opinion with an explanatory paragraph could itself have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” The sale of our common stock to Fusion Capital may cause dilution and the sale of the shares of common stock acquired by Fusion Capital could cause the price of our common stock to decline. In connection with entering into the common stock purchase agreement with Fusion Capital, we authorized the sale to Fusion Capital of up to 8,000,000 shares of our common stock, in addition to the 473,957 shares that we issued to Fusion Capital as a commitment fee. The number of shares ultimately offered for sale by Fusion Capital is dependent upon the number of shares purchased by Fusion Capital under the agreement. The purchase price for the common stock to be sold to Fusion Capital pursuant to the common stock purchase agreement will fluctuate based on the price of our common stock. All 8,473,957 shares that we have registered pursuant to our registration rights agreement with Fusion Capital are freely tradable. It is anticipated that shares registered will be sold over a period of up to 24 months. Depending upon market liquidity at the time, a sale of shares by Fusion Capital at any given time could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Fusion Capital may ultimately purchase all or some of the 8,000,000 shares of common stock authorized for sale to Fusion Capital under the common stock purchase agreement. After it has acquired such shares, it may sell all, some or none of such shares. Therefore, sales to Fusion Capital by us under the common stock purchase agreement may result in substantial dilution to the interests of other holders of our common stock. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by Fusion Capital, or anticipation of such sales, could make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and at a price that we might otherwise wish to effect sales. However, we have the right to control the timing and amount of any sales of our shares to Fusion Capital and the agreement may be terminated by us at any time at our discretion without any cost to us. As of February 28, 2007, we had sold an aggregate of 566,978 shares to Fusion Capital under the common stock purchase agreement, in addition to the 473,957 shares that we issued to Fusion Capital as a commitment fee. Our business may be materially and adversely impacted by the loss of our largest customer or the reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from this customer; in addition, our business may be materially and adversely impacted if this customer delays payment or fails to pay for products sold to this customer. For the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2006 our largest customer accounted for 39.8% and 28.8%, respectively, of our revenues, and as of December 31, 2006 this customer accounted for 45.7% of our accounts receivable. Our sales to this customer may be materially and adversely impacted by various factors relating to this customer’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially and adversely impacted by the loss of this 15 Table of Contents customer, or the reduction, delay or cancellation of orders. In addition, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially and adversely impacted if this customer delays payment or fails to pay for products sold. This customer is not obligated to purchase a specific quantity of our products or provide binding forecasts of purchases for any period. We may be required to make tax payments that exceed our settlement estimates. As of December 31, 2005 and 2006 we estimated that we owed $3.4 million and $2.8 million, respectively, as of each balance sheet date in state and local taxes, primarily sales and use taxes, in various jurisdictions in the United States. We are in the process of negotiating resolutions of the past due tax obligations with the applicable tax authorities. While we hope that these obligations can be settled for less than the amounts accrued, we cannot predict whether we will obtain favorable settlement terms from the various tax authorities, or that, after settling, we will satisfy the conditions necessary to avoid violating the settlements. Our failure to obtain favorable settlement terms or to satisfy the settlement conditions may result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may incur significant expenses in the future as a result of our obligation to pay legal fees for and otherwise indemnify former officers and former directors. As described below under Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” certain former officers and former directors continue to be involved in investigations and related legal proceedings brought by the SEC and the DOJ. We are contractually obligated to pay legal fees for and otherwise indemnify these former officers and former directors. We may incur significant expenses in the future as a result of these obligations. The amount of these expenses is unpredictable and outside of our control and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our success will depend on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. In order to execute our business plan, we need to attract, retain and motivate a significant number of highly qualified managerial, technical, financial and sales personnel. If we fail to attract and retain skilled scientific and sales personnel, our research and development and sales and marketing efforts will be hindered. Our future success depends to a significant degree upon the continued services of key management personnel. None of our key management personnel is covered by an insurance policy of which we are the beneficiary. Our success is reliant on the acceptance by doctors and patients of the Cryocare Surgical System as a preferred treatment for tumor ablation. Cryosurgery has existed for many years, but has not been widely accepted primarily due to concerns regarding safety and efficacy and widespread use of alternative therapies. Because the technology previously lacked precise monitoring capabilities, prostate cryosurgical procedures performed in the 1970s resulted in high cancer recurrence and negative side effects, such as rectal fistulae and incontinence, and gave cryosurgical treatment negative publicity. To overcome these negative side effects, we have developed ultrasound guidance and temperature sensing to enable more precise monitoring in our Cryocare Surgical System. Nevertheless, we will need to overcome the earlier negative publicity associated with cryosurgery in order to obtain market acceptance for our products. In addition, use of our Cryocare Surgical System requires significant physician education and training. As a result, we may have difficulty obtaining recommendations and endorsements of physicians and patients for our Cryocare Surgical System. We may also have difficulty raising the brand awareness necessary to generate interest in our Cryocare Surgical System. Any adverse side effects, including impotence or incontinence, recurrence of cancer or future reported adverse events or other unfavorable publicity involving patient outcomes from the use of cryosurgery, whether from our products or the products of our competitors, could adversely affect acceptance of cryosurgery. In addition, emerging new technologies and procedures to treat prostate cancer may negatively affect the market acceptance of cryosurgery. If our Cryocare Surgical System does not achieve broad market acceptance, we will likely remain unprofitable. 16 Table of Contents We are faced with intense competition and rapid technological and industry change, which may make it more difficult for us to achieve significant market penetration. The medical device industry generally, and the cancer treatment market in particular, are characterized by rapid technological change, changing customer needs and frequent new product introductions. If our competitors’ existing products or new products are more effective than or considered superior to our products, the commercial opportunity for our products will be reduced or eliminated. We face intense competition from companies in the cryosurgical marketplace as well as companies offering other treatment options, including radical prostatectomy, radiation therapy and hormone therapy. If we are successful in penetrating the market for treatment of prostate cancer with our cryosurgical treatment, other medical device companies may be attracted to the marketplace. Many of our potential competitors are significantly larger than we are and have greater financial, technical, research, marketing, sales, distribution and other resources than we do. We believe there will be intense price competition for products developed in our markets. Our competitors may develop or market technologies and products that are more effective or commercially attractive than any that we are developing or marketing. Our competitors may obtain regulatory approval and introduce and commercialize products before we do. These developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Even if we are able to compete successfully, we may not be able to do so in a profitable manner. If we are unable to continue to enhance our Cryocare Surgical System, our business will suffer. Our growth depends in part on continued ability to successfully develop, manufacture and commercialize enhancements to our Cryocare Surgical System. We may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, manufacturing and commercialization of these products. Our products in development may not prove safe and effective in clinical trials. Clinical trials may identify significant technical or other obstacles that must be overcome before obtaining necessary regulatory or reimbursement approvals. In addition, our competitors may succeed in developing commercially viable products that render our products obsolete or less attractive. Failure to successfully develop, manufacture and commercialize new products and enhancements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. There is uncertainty relating to third-party reimbursement, which is critical to market acceptance of our products. Hospitals and other health care providers in the United States generally rely on third-party payers, principally federal Medicare, state Medicaid and private health insurance plans, to reimburse all or part of the cost of medical procedures involving our products. While private health insurers in some areas of the United States provide reimbursement for procedures in which our products are used, we can provide no assurance that private insurance reimbursement will be adopted nationally or by additional insurers. Furthermore, those private insurance companies currently paying for procedures in which our products are used may terminate such coverage. If reimbursement levels from Medicare, Medicaid, other governmental health care programs or private insurers are not sufficient, physicians may choose not to recommend, and patients may not choose, procedures using our products. International market acceptance of our products may depend, in part, upon the availability of reimbursement within prevailing health care payment systems. Reimbursement and health care payment systems in international markets vary significantly by country, and include both government sponsored health care and private insurance. We may not obtain international reimbursement approvals in a timely manner, if at all. Our failure to receive international reimbursement approvals may negatively impact market acceptance of our products in the international markets in which those approvals are sought. From time to time significant attention has been focused on reforming the health care system in the United States and other countries. Any changes in Medicare, Medicaid or third-party medical expense reimbursement, which may arise from health care reform, may have a material adverse effect on reimbursement for our products or procedures in which our products are used and may reduce the price we are able to charge for our products. In addition, changes to the health care system may also affect the commercial acceptance of products we are currently developing and products we may develop in the future. Potential changes that have been considered include controls on health care spending and price controls. Several proposals have been made in the United States 17 Table of Contents Congress and various state legislatures recently that, if adopted, would potentially reduce health care spending, which may result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitors may take advantage of our ideas and compete directly against us. Our success will depend to a significant degree on our ability to secure and protect intellectual property rights and to enforce patent and trademark protections relating to our technology. From time to time, litigation may be advisable to protect our intellectual property position. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. Any litigation in this regard could be costly, and it is possible that we will not have sufficient resources to fully pursue litigation or to protect our other intellectual property rights. Litigation could result in the rejection or invalidation of our existing and future patents. Any adverse outcome in litigation relating to the validity of our patents, or any failure to pursue litigation or otherwise to protect our patent position, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Also, even if we prevail in litigation, the litigation would be costly in terms of management distraction as well as in terms of money. In addition, confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, customers, and key vendors may not prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technology. It is possible that these agreements could be breached or that they might not be enforceable in every instance, and that we might not have adequate remedies for any such breach. Enforcement of these agreements may be costly and time consuming. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Because the medical device industry is litigious, we may be sued for allegedly violating the intellectual property rights of others. The medical technology industry has in the past been characterized by a substantial amount of litigation and related administrative proceedings regarding patents and intellectual property rights. In addition, major medical device companies have used litigation against emerging growth companies as a means of gaining or preserving a competitive advantage. Should third parties file patent applications or be issued patents claiming technology also claimed by us in pending applications, we may be required to participate in interference proceedings in the United States Patent and Trademark Office to determine the relative priorities of our inventions and the third parties’ inventions. We could also be required to participate in interference proceedings involving our issued patents and pending applications of another entity. An adverse outcome in an interference proceeding could require us to cease using the technology or to license rights from prevailing third parties. Third parties may claim we are using their patented inventions and may go to court to stop us from engaging in our normal operations and activities. These lawsuits are expensive to defend and conduct and would also consume and divert the time and attention of our management. A court may decide that we are infringing a third party’s patents and may order us to cease the infringing activity. A court could also order us to pay damages for the infringement. These damages could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we are unable to obtain any necessary license following an adverse determination in litigation or in interference or other administrative proceedings, we would have to redesign our products to avoid infringing a third party’s patent and could temporarily or permanently have to discontinue manufacturing and selling some of our products. If this were to occur, it would negatively impact future sales and, in turn, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 18 Table of Contents If we fail to obtain or maintain necessary regulatory clearances or approvals for products, or if approvals are delayed or withdrawn, we will be unable to commercially distribute and market our products or any product modifications. Government regulation has a significant impact on our business. Government regulation in the United States and other countries is a significant factor affecting the research and development, manufacture and marketing of our products. In the United States, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has broad authority under the federal FD&C Act to regulate the distribution, manufacture and sale of medical devices. Foreign sales of drugs and medical devices are subject to foreign governmental regulation and restrictions, which vary from country to country. The process of obtaining FDA and other required regulatory clearances and approvals is lengthy and expensive. We may not be able to obtain or maintain necessary approvals for clinical testing or for the manufacturing or marketing of our products. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory approvals can, among other things, result in fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. In addition, governmental regulations may be established which could prevent, delay, modify or rescind regulatory approval of our products. Any of these actions by the FDA, or change in FDA regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Regulatory approvals, if granted, may include significant limitations on the indicated uses for which our products may be marketed. In addition, to obtain such approvals, the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities may impose numerous other requirements on us. FDA enforcement policy prohibits the marketing of approved medical devices for unapproved uses. In addition, product approvals can be withdrawn for failure to comply with regulatory standards or unforeseen problems following initial marketing. We may not be able to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals for our products on a timely basis, or at all, and delays in receipt of or failure to receive such approvals, the loss of previously obtained approvals or failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our products may be subject to product recalls even after receiving FDA clearance or approval, which would harm our reputation and our business. The FDA and similar governmental authorities in other countries have the authority to request and, in some cases, require the recall of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. A governmental mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors or design defects. Any recall of product would divert managerial and financial resources and harm our reputation with customers and our business. We could be negatively impacted by future interpretation or implementation of the federal anti-kickback and Stark laws and other federal and state anti-self-referral and anti-kickback laws. The federal Stark law prohibits a physician from referring Medicare patients for certain services to an entity with which the physician has a financial relationship. A financial relationship includes both investment interests in an entity and compensation arrangements with an entity. The federal anti-kickback law prohibits the offer or receipt of any remuneration in order to induce referrals of federal health care program business. Many states have similar and often broader laws. These state laws generally apply to services reimbursed by both governmental and private payers. Violation of these federal and state laws may result in prohibition of payment for services rendered, loss of licenses, fines, criminal penalties and exclusion from governmental and private payer programs, among other things. We have financial relationships with physicians and physician-owned entities, which in turn have financial relationships with hospitals and other providers of designated health services. Although we believe that our financial relationships with physicians and physician-owned entities, as well as the relationships between physician-owned entities that purchase or lease our products and hospitals, are not in violation of applicable laws and regulations, governmental authorities might take a contrary position. If our financial relationships with physicians or physician-owned entities or the relationships between those entities and hospitals were found to be illegal, we and/or the affected physicians and hospitals could be subject to civil and criminal penalties, including fines, exclusion from participation in government and private payer programs and requirements to refund amounts previously received from government and private payers. In addition, expansion of our operations to new jurisdictions, or new interpretations of laws in our existing jurisdictions, could require structural and organizational 19 Table of Contents modifications of our relationships with physicians, physician-owned entities and others to comply with that jurisdiction’s laws. For a further description of these laws see above in Part I, Item 1, under “Health Care Regulatory Issues.” We believe that the arrangements we have established with physician-owned entities and hospitals comply with applicable Stark law exceptions. However, if any of the relationships between physicians and hospitals involving our services do not meet a Stark law exception, neither the hospital nor we would be able to bill for any procedure resulting from a referral that violated the Stark law. Although in most cases we are not the direct provider and do not bill Medicare for the designated health services, any Stark law problem with our business arrangements with physicians and hospitals would adversely affect us as well as the referring physician and the hospital receiving the referral. Many states also have patient referral laws, some of which are more restrictive than the Stark law and regulate referrals by all licensed health care practitioners for any health care service to an entity with which the licensee has a financial relationship unless an exception applies. Such laws in particular states may prohibit us from entering into relationships with physicians and physician-owned entities, which may limit business development. We believe that our business practices comply with the Stark law, the federal anti-kickback and applicable state anti-kickback and anti-self-referral laws. No assurance can be made, however, that these practices would not be successfully challenged and penalties, such as civil money penalties and exclusion from Medicare and Medicaid, and/or state penalties, imposed. And again, mere challenge, even if we ultimately prevail, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we become subject to product liability claims, we may be required to pay damages that exceed our insurance coverage. Our business exposes us to potential product liability claims that are inherent in the testing, production, marketing and sale of medical devices. While we believe that we are reasonably insured against these risks, we may not maintain insurance in amounts or scope sufficient to provide us with adequate coverage. A claim in excess of our insurance coverage would have to be paid out of cash reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, any product liability claim could harm our reputation in the industry and our business. Our intangible assets could become impaired. Intangible assets acquired in a purchase, such as intellectual property or developed technology, are generally amortized over various periods depending on their anticipated economic benefits or useful lives. Long-lived assets, including amortizable intangibles, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to undiscounted future net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. Following a review, if such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying value of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets. Significant estimates, including assumptions regarding future events and circumstances that cannot be easily predicted, are required to perform an analysis of the value of intangible assets. These estimates and assumptions may differ materially from actual outcomes and occurrences. Our facilities and systems are vulnerable to natural disasters or other catastrophic events. Our headquarters, cryosurgical products manufacturing facilities, research facilities and much of our infrastructure, including computer servers, are located in California, an area that is susceptible to earthquakes and other natural disasters. A natural disaster or other catastrophic event, such as an earthquake, fire, flood, severe storm, break-in, terrorist attack or other comparable problems could cause interruptions or delays in our business and loss of data or render us unable to accept and fulfill customer orders in a timely manner, or at all. We have no formal disaster recovery plan and our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur. In the event that an earthquake, natural disaster or other catastrophic event were to destroy any part of our facilities or interrupt our operations for any extended period of time, or if harsh weather conditions prevent us 20 Table of Contents from delivering products in a timely manner, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Associated with an Investment in Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock is highly volatile. The market price of our common stock has been and is expected to continue to be highly volatile. Various factors, including announcements of technological innovations by us or other companies, regulatory matters, new or existing products or procedures, concerns about our financial position, operating results, litigation, government regulation, developments or disputes relating to agreements, patents or proprietary rights, may have a significant impact on the market price of our stock. If our operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the market price of our common stock may fall abruptly and significantly. Future sales of shares of our common stock may negatively affect our stock price. Future sales of our common stock, including shares issued upon the exercise of outstanding options and warrants or hedging or other derivative transactions with respect to our stock, could have a significant negative effect on the market price of our common stock. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we would deem appropriate. We had an aggregate of 30,679,176 shares of common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2006, which includes 5,635,378 shares of our common stock that we issued on March 11, 2005 in connection with the financing described in the Form 8-K that we filed on March 16, 2005. Investors in that financing also received warrants to purchase an aggregate of 1,972,374 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $3.50 per share and 1,972,374 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $4.00 per share. In addition, on October 25, 2006, under the terms of the common stock purchase agreement with Fusion Capital, we issued 473,957 shares of our common stock to Fusion Capital as a commitment fee. We may sell up to 8,000,000 additional shares to Fusion Capital pursuant to the common stock purchase agreement. As of February 28, 2007, we had sold an aggregate of 566,978 shares to Fusion Capital under the common stock purchase agreement, in addition to the 473,957 shares that we issued to Fusion Capital as a commitment fee. The warrants issued on March 11, 2005 have an anti-dilution clause that in certain circumstances reduces the effective exercise price of the warrants and proportionately increases the number of shares underlying the warrants to preserve the ownership of the warrant holders. As a result of the issuance of the 473,957 plus an additional 30,242 shares to Fusion capital in 2006 the exercise price of the warrants decreased to effectively provide holders an additional 47,769 shares. Additionally, through February 28, 2007 we issued an additional 536,736 shares to Fusion Capital, which decreased the warrant price to effectively provide holders an additional 54,862 shares. We entered into registration rights agreements in connection with these financings pursuant to which we agreed to register for resale by the investors the shares of common stock issued. Sales of shares covered by these registration statements could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our shares. Our common stock was delisted from the Nasdaq Stock Market and, as a result, trading of our common stock has become more difficult. Our common stock was delisted from the Nasdaq National Market on January 16, 2003 because of our failure to keep current in filing our periodic reports with the SEC. Trading is now conducted in the over-the-counter market on the Nasdaq OTC Bulletin Board Market. Consequently, selling our common stock is more difficult because smaller quantities of shares can be bought and sold, transactions can be delayed and security analyst and news media coverage of us may be reduced. These factors could result in lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for shares of our common stock as well as lower trading volume. We hope that our common stock will eventually be relisted with the American Stock Exchange (AMEX), the Nasdaq Capital Market or the Nasdaq Global Market, but we cannot assure you that our common stock will be relisted within any particular time period, or at all. As noted below, we may effectuate a reverse stock split in order to qualify our stock for relisting. 21 Table of Contents In order to qualify our stock for relisting, we may effectuate a reverse stock split, which could adversely affect our stockholders. In order to qualify our stock for relisting, we may effectuate a reverse stock split. AMEX requires a minimum bid price of $2.00, the Nasdaq Capital Market requires a minimum bid price of $4.00 and the Nasdaq Global Market requires a minimum bid price of $5.00. As of February 28, 2007, the closing price for our common stock as reported on the Nasdaq OTC Bulletin Board Market was $1.75 per share. Any reverse stock split requires the prior approval of our stockholders at a stockholders meeting, because our charter prohibits stockholder action by written consent. Our stockholders have authorized us to effectuate a reverse stock split at any time until May 18, 2007. The authorization allowed for the combination of any whole number of shares of common stock between and including two and five into one share of common stock, i.e., each of the following combination ratios: one for two, one for three, one for four and one for five. If our Board of Directors decides to proceed with the reverse stock split, then the Board will determine the exact ratio within the range described in the previous sentence. In many instances historically the markets have reacted negatively to the effectuation of a reverse stock split. The trading price of our stock may be negatively affected if our Board decides to proceed with a reverse stock split. If the Board of Directors does not implement a reverse stock split prior to May 18, 2007, then stockholder approval again would be required prior to implementing any reverse stock split. We expect to ask our stockholders at our 2007 annual meeting to authorize a reverse stock split for another two years. We could be difficult to acquire due to anti-takeover provisions in our charter, our stockholders rights plan and Delaware law. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire control of our company. In addition, we have adopted a stockholder rights plan in which preferred stock purchase rights were distributed as a dividend. These provisions may make it more difficult for stockholders to take corporate actions and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. These provisions also could deter or prevent transactions that stockholders deem to be in their interests. In addition, we are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Subject to specified exceptions, this section provides that a corporation may not engage in any business combination with any interested stockholder during the three-year period following the time that such stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. This provision could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company. The foregoing factors could reduce the price that investors or an acquirer might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 