Item 1A. Risk Factors In evaluating and understanding us and our business, you should carefully consider (1) all of the information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto and Management’s Discussion and Analysis, (2) information in our other filings with the SEC, including any future reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K and (3) the risks described below. These are not the only risks we face. Additional risks not presently known or which we currently deem immaterial may also impact our business operations, and the risks identified below may adversely affect our business in ways we cannot currently anticipate. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. We incurred losses in 2012 and 2013. Our procedure volume declined 9% in 2013 compared with 2012, and we incurred losses in both years due in large part to a weak overall economy, restructuring charges and investment in our refractive lens and cataract services expansion. We sustained losses in three calendar quarters in 2012 and two calendar quarters in 2013. These continued losses have reduced our working capital. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, we had approximately $28.7 million and $34.5 million, respectively, in cash and investments. We are uncertain as to how long the negative industry conditions will continue. There could be a number of other effects from these adverse economic conditions on our business, including reduced consumer demand for our services; insolvency of our patients, resulting in increased provisions for credit losses; insolvency of our key equipment suppliers; inability of consumers to obtain credit to finance some or all of the cost of their procedures; and decreased consumer confidence. If macroeconomic conditions do not improve, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Our proposed merger with PhotoMedex may cause disruption in our business and, if the proposed merger does not occur, we will have incurred significant expenses, we may need to pay a termination fee under the merger agreement and our stock price may decline. As previously disclosed, on February 13, 2014, we entered into a Merger Agreement with PhotoMedex pursuant to which PhotoMedex will acquire all of our common stock for $5.37 per share in cash, or approximately $106.4 million, resulting in us becoming a wholly owned subsidiary of PhotoMedex. 11 The merger, whether or not consummated, may result in a loss of key personnel and may disrupt our sales and marketing or other key business activities, which may have an adverse impact on our financial performance. The merger agreement in general requires us to operate our business in the ordinary course pending consummation of the merger, but includes certain contractual restrictions on the conduct of our business that may affect our ability to execute on our business strategies and attain our financial goals. Additionally, the merger, whether or not consummated, may impact our relationships with third parties, including suppliers, distributors, customers and others. We have incurred and will continue to incur substantial financial advisory, legal, and other professional fees and expenses in connection with the merger. As described in Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements and in the merger agreement, completion of the merger is subject to several conditions, including (i) the adoption of the merger agreement by the affirmative vote or written consent of the holders of at least a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock at a special meeting to be held later in 2014; (ii) the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976; (iii) the clearance by the SEC of a proxy statement of the type contemplated by Rule 14a-2 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 related to the merger and merger agreement, which after clearance must be sent to stockholders of the Company at least 20 days prior to the special meeting of our stockholders; (iv) the absence of a material adverse change in our business or financial condition; and (v) other customary closing conditions. The merger agreement may be terminated by either us or PhotoMedex if the merger has not been consummated by May 14, 2014 (subject to certain extensions) or if a court or other governmental entity of competent jurisdiction issues a final, non-appealable order permanently restraining, enjoining or otherwise prohibiting the merger. In addition, among other things, PhotoMedex may, but is not required to, terminate the merger agreement if we enter into, or publicly propose to enter into, an agreement relating to our acquisition by a third party or take other specified actions which are inconsistent with supporting the merger. Similarly we can terminate the merger agreement, subject to certain restrictions, if our board determines that it has received a superior acquisition proposal from a third party. In the event of a termination of the nature described in the two preceding sentences, we would be required to pay a break-up fee of $3.2 million plus expenses incurred by PhotoMedex (not to exceed $1.0 million). Changes in general economic conditions may cause fluctuations in our revenues and profitability. The cost of laser vision correction procedures typically is not reimbursed by third-party payers such as health care insurance companies or government programs. Accordingly, as we are experiencing and have experienced in prior fiscal periods, our operating results may vary based upon the impact of changes in the disposable income of consumers interested in laser vision correction, among other economic factors. A significant decrease in consumer disposable income in a weak economy results in a decrease in the number of laser vision correction procedures performed and a decline in our revenues and profitability. In addition, weak economic conditions may cause some of our patients to experience financial distress or declare bankruptcy, which may negatively impact our accounts receivable collection experience. Weak economic conditions also may change the risk profile or volume of business that our unaffiliated finance company partner is willing to underwrite, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our industry has historically been highly correlated with consumer confidence. Declines or volatility in consumer confidence may continue to negatively impact our business. Recessionary economic conditions, uncertainty in the credit markets, a period of rising energy costs and depressed housing prices have all contributed to a deterioration in volume of procedures performed, especially for patients at middle- and lower-income levels. Depressed consumer confidence negatively impacts our procedure volume and financial performance. The current market conditions have created uncertainty and caused potential patients to be more cautious in their purchasing decisions. Our quarterly and annual operating results are subject to significant fluctuations. Our revenue and operating results have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year depending on many factors, including but not limited to: ● The number of laser vision correction procedures we perform ● Fluctuating economic conditions in the geographic areas in which we operate, which can result in changes in demand for our laser vision correction services ● The timing of advances by our suppliers and the purchase of such advances or upgrades of equipment by us or our competitors ● The impact of competitors, including those who compete by deeply discounting the price of laser vision correction services, in the geographic areas in which we operate ● The opening, closing or expansion of vision centers ● Our ability to manage equipment and operating costs ● Collection rates on self-financed procedures ● The availability of third-party financing for our patients ● Regulatory matters 12 ● Litigation ● Acquisitions and other transactions In addition, our revenue and operating results are subject to seasonal factors. In terms of the number of procedures performed, our strongest quarter historically has been the first quarter of the year, and our business is generally weaker in the latter half of the year. We believe these fluctuations are due primarily to: ● The availability to potential patients of funds under typical employer medical flexible spending ● Time constraints imposed by the summer vacation and holiday seasons and a desire by some individuals not to schedule procedures at those times of year Reductions in revenues or net income between quarters or our failure to achieve expected quarterly earnings per share has in the past and could in the future result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. Our business relies heavily upon direct-to-consumer marketing. The effectiveness of our marketing programs and messages to consumers can have a significant impact on our financial performance. The effectiveness of marketing fluctuates, resulting in changes in the cost of marketing per procedure, and variations in our margins. Less effective marketing programs could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We derive substantially all of our revenue from laser vision correction services. A decrease in the provision of these services could result in a significant decrease in our revenues and profitability. We derive substantially all of our revenues from laser vision correction services. If we are not able to provide those services or the number of laser vision correction procedures we perform significantly decreases, our revenues and results of operations will decrease materially. We do not currently have other matured diversified revenue sources to offset a significant decrease in revenues from our provision of laser vision correction services. Our expansion into new services or products beyond laser vision correction may not be successful. Beginning in 2011, we began offering standard cataract, premium IOL and ICL services in certain of our existing markets. In 2012 we expanded some of these initiatives to nine total markets utilizing our existing infrastructure from our laser vision correction centers. This diversification requires us to incur start-up losses, and we have not received significant revenues from these services. Our diversification into refractive lens and cataract services may not be successful, and we can give no assurance that we can develop these opportunities or that we will have adequate capital to do so. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified independent ophthalmologists, our ability to maintain operations at existing vision centers, to attract patients or to open new vision centers could be negatively affected. We generate our revenues through independent ophthalmologists who work with us to perform surgeries. In states where the corporate practice of medicine is prohibited, we contract with professional corporations for ophthalmologists to perform surgeries at our vision centers. The retention of those ophthalmologists is a critical factor in the success of our existing vision centers, and the hiring of independent qualified ophthalmologists is a critical factor in our ability to launch a new vision center successfully. However, it is sometimes difficult for us to hire or retain qualified ophthalmologists. If we are unable consistently to hire and retain qualified ophthalmologists, our ability to open new vision centers, maintain operations at existing vision centers, and attract patients could be negatively affected. Throughout 2013, we continued to feature our ophthalmologists in local marketing materials. If we are unable to retain these featured ophthalmologists, our ability to maintain operations at existing vision centers and attract patients could be negatively affected. If technological changes occur that render our equipment or services obsolete, or increase our cost structure, we may need to make significant capital expenditures or modify our business model, which could cause our revenues or results of operations to decline. Industry, competitive or clinical factors, among others, may require us to introduce alternate ophthalmic laser technology or other surgical or non-surgical methods for correcting refractive vision disorders than those that we currently use in our laser vision correction centers. Such alternative technologies could include various intraocular lens technologies or other new technologies. Introducing such technology could require significant capital investment or force us to modify our business model in such a way as to make our revenues or results of operations decline. An increase in costs could reduce our ability to maintain our margins. An increase in prices could adversely affect our ability to attract new patients. 13 If a better-financed or lower-cost provider of laser vision correction or a competing vision treatment forces us to lower our laser surgery prices in a particular geographic area, our revenues and results of operations could decline. Laser eye surgery competes with other surgical and non-surgical treatments for refractive vision disorders, including eyeglasses, contact lenses, other types of refractive surgery, corneal implants and other technologies currently under development. Among providers of laser vision correction, competition comes from firms similar to us and from hospitals, hospital-affiliated group entities, physician group practices and private ophthalmologists, among others that, in order to offer laser vision correction to patients, purchase or rent excimer lasers. Suppliers of conventional eyeglasses and contact lenses, such as optometry chains, also may compete with us by purchasing laser systems and offering laser vision correction to their customers. Some of our current competitors or other companies that may choose to enter the industry in the future, including laser manufacturers themselves, may have substantially greater financial, technical, managerial, marketing or other resources and experience than we do and may be able to compete more effectively. Similarly, competition could increase if the market for laser vision correction does not experience growth, and existing providers compete for market share. Additional competition may develop, particularly if the price to purchase or rent excimer laser systems decreases. Our management, operations, strategy and marketing plans may not be successful in meeting this competition. If more competitors offer laser vision correction or other competitive types of vision treatments in a given geographic market, we might find it necessary to reduce the prices we charge, particularly if competitors offer the procedures at lower prices than we do. If that were to happen or we were not successful in cost effectively acquiring patients for our procedures, we may not be able to make up for the reduced gross profit margin by increasing the number of procedures that we perform, and our business, financial condition and results from operations could be adversely affected, as we have experienced in prior fiscal periods. Our business has been adversely affected in the past by deeply-discounted pricing by some competitors, and it is possible that such competitive practices may adversely affect our business in the future. In the past, certain competitors have utilized deeply-discounted pricing in an effort to generate procedure volume. This practice has caused periods of intense price competition in our industry. As a result, we have lowered our prices in the past in order to remain competitive. We currently face competitors offering discounted prices, including several providers of laser vision correction procedures, in some geographic markets where we conduct business. It is possible that, in the future, business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, as a result of the discounting practices of competitors. We have credit risk from accounts receivable from internally financed patients. A significant percentage of our patients finance some or all of the cost of their procedure. We provide certain of our patients, including patients who could not otherwise obtain third-party financing, with the ability to pay for our procedures with direct financing. The terms of our direct financing typically require the patient to pay a down payment, with the remaining balance paid by the patient from 12 to 36 monthly installments. As of December 31, 2013, we held $5.4 million in gross patient receivables, compared to $5.5 million as of December 31, 2012. We are exposed to significant credit risk from our direct financing program, particularly given that patients who participate in the program generally have not been deemed creditworthy by third-party financing companies with more experience in credit issues. If the uncollectible amounts exceed the amounts that we have reserved, we could be required to write down our accounts receivable, and our cash flow and results of operations would be adversely affected. Extensive state and federal laws and regulations, some of which may be applicable to our business operations, regulate the extension of credit to patients. Non-compliance could subject us to litigation, enforcement action, or civil or criminal penalties. Any such action could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Concerns about potential side effects and long-term results may negatively impact market acceptance of laser vision correction, result in potential liability for us and prevent us from growing our business. Some people and publications have raised concerns with respect to the predictability and stability of results and potential complications or side effects of laser vision correction. Physicians have provided laser vision correction in the United States since 1995. Any long-term complications or side effects of laser vision correction may call into question its safety and effectiveness, which in turn may negatively affect market acceptance of laser vision correction. Complications or side effects of laser vision correction could lead to professional liability, malpractice or other claims against us and product liability claims against the manufacturers of our lasers. Courts have awarded several significant verdicts against non-affiliated refractive surgeons in the past. Consequences of proceedings could include increased liability to us in connection with malpractice litigation, increased difficulty in hiring and retaining qualified independent ophthalmologists who may be wary of the increased liability associated with laser eye surgery, and decreased operational and financial yield from pre-operative examinations, among other effects that would be adverse to our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Some of the possible side effects of laser vision correction may include: ● Foreign body sensation ● Pain or discomfort ● Sensitivity to bright lights ● Blurred vision or haze 14 ● Dryness or tearing ● Fluctuation in vision ● Night glare and halos ● Poor or reduced visual quality ● Overcorrection or undercorrection ● Regression ● Decreased corneal integrity ● Corneal flap or corneal healing complications ● Loss of best corrected visual acuity ● Inflammation or infection of the eye ● Need for corrective lenses or reading glasses post-operatively ● Need for further treatment ● Ectasia We depend on limited sources for the excimer lasers and diagnostic equipment we use and for the third-party financing made available to our patients. Shortages of these items or services could hinder our ability to increase our procedure volume. We use two suppliers, AMO and Alcon, for our excimer lasers. If either or both of these companies became unwilling or unable to supply us with excimer lasers and diagnostic equipment or to repair or replace parts or to provide services, our ability to maintain or increase our capacity to perform laser vision correction services at existing vision centers or to open new vision centers could be restricted. We currently rely on AMO to provide us with femtosecond lasers and patient interface kits, the devices used to create the corneal flap in the LASIK procedure, and McKesson for other disposable items required for LASIK. If we were to require alternate or additional suppliers, there can be no assurance that such items would be available in the quantities, at the costs or within the time frames that we require. Any shortages in our supplies of this equipment could limit our ability to maintain or increase the volume of procedures that we perform, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results from operations. We currently rely exclusively on one unaffiliated finance company for third-party financing made available to our patients. The percentage of our patients who choose to obtain financing from this unaffiliated finance company is significant. We cannot give assurance that financing services will be available on terms or at interest rates or costs that we or our patients may require. Any reduction in available financing could limit our ability to maintain or increase the volume of procedures that we perform, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results from operations. Our business may be impaired due to government regulations which could restrict our equipment, services and relationships with ophthalmologists, optometrists and other healthcare providers. As described under “Government Regulation” and below, we, excimer laser manufacturers and our other business partners, including managed care companies and third-party patient financing companies, among others, are subject to extensive federal, state and foreign laws, rules and regulations, including all or some of the following: ● Federal restrictions on the approval, distribution and use of medical devices ● Federal and state anti-kickback laws ● Fee-splitting laws in some states ● Corporate practice of medicine restrictions in some states ● Federal and state physician self-referral laws ● Federal and state information privacy and security laws ● Anti-fraud provisions in some states ● Facility license requirements and certificates of need in some states ● Conflict of interest regulations in some states ● FDA, FTC, and state rules and regulations regarding advertising and marketing practices ● Credit and financing regulation Some of these laws and regulations are vague or ambiguous, and courts and regulatory authorities have not always provided clarification. Moreover, state and local law, including, but not limited to those on sales and use taxes, vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. As a result, some of our activities could be challenged, the success of which cannot be predicted. The failure of our suppliers to obtain regulatory approvals for any additional uses of excimer or femtosecond lasers or otherwise comply with regulatory requirements could limit the number of excimer or femtosecond lasers that we have available for use and, therefore, limit the number of procedures that we can perform. 15 Failure of the laser manufacturers to comply with applicable FDA requirements could subject us, the independent ophthalmologists who practice in our vision centers or those manufacturers to enforcement actions, including product seizure, recalls, withdrawal of approvals and civil and criminal penalties. Further, failure to comply with regulatory requirements, or any adverse regulatory action, could result in limitations or prohibitions on our use of excimer or femtosecond lasers. Any such actions or proceedings could result in negative publicity, which in turn could result in decreased demand for our services and decrease our capacity to perform laser vision correction services. Our business depends heavily on advertising, which is subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission (the “FTC”) and various state boards of medicine and optometry. We are subject to a 2003 FTC Consent Order in which it was agreed, among other things, that we would not represent in our advertising that our LASIK surgery services eliminate the need for glasses and contacts for life, pose significantly less risk to patients’ eye health than wearing glasses or contacts, or eliminate the risk of glare and haloing, unless, at the time that such a representation is made, we possess and rely upon competent and reliable scientific evidence that substantiates the representation. We cannot be certain that this order to which we agreed, or any future action by the FTC, will not restrict our laser vision correction services, or otherwise result in negative publicity and damage our reputation. Our business may be adversely impacted by health care reform. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (“PPACA”), as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (“HCERA,” and together with PPACA the “Affordable Care Act”) was signed into law on March 23, 2010. The Affordable Care Act contains provisions affecting numerous aspects of the health care and insurance industries. Effective in 2013, the Affordable Care Act limits flexible spending account contributions to $2,500, which may continue to negatively impact our business because many of our customers use flexible spending accounts to pay for our procedures. These changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The FDA is conducting a study to examine LASIK’s impact on quality of life, the results of which could adversely impact broader market acceptance, and our profitability and growth. The FDA has launched a collaborative study with the National Eye Institute and the U.S. Department of Defense to examine LASIK’s potential impact on quality of life. The goal of the LASIK Quality of Life Collaboration Project is to determine the percentage of patients with significant quality of life problems after LASIK surgery and to identify predictors of these problems. The results of the project will help identify factors that can affect quality of life following LASIK and potentially reduce the risk of adverse effects that can impact the surgical outcome. If any of these factors are related to the safety or effectiveness of the lasers used in LASIK surgery, the FDA will evaluate whether any action is necessary. The project is part of the FDA’s ongoing effort to better monitor and improve the safety and effectiveness of the lasers used in LASIK surgery. The results of this study could adversely impact broader market acceptance of LASIK, which could have a direct impact on our profitability and growth. In addition, any new adverse regulatory actions by the FDA could result in limitations or prohibitions with respect to LASIK surgery. We are subject to lawsuits for patient injuries, which could subject us to significant judgments and damage our reputation. The laser vision correction procedures performed in our vision centers involve the risk of injury to patients. Such risk could result in professional liability, malpractice, or other claims brought against us, or our independent ophthalmologists and optometrists based upon injuries or alleged injuries associated with malpractice by an ophthalmologist, optometrist, technician or other healthcare professional. Product liability claims could also be made against our manufacturers associated with defects in their products. Some injuries or defects may not become evident for a number of years. Significant lawsuits against us could subject us to significant judgments and damage our reputation. In addition, a partially or completely uninsured claim against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely primarily and intend to continue to rely primarily on the independent ophthalmologists’ professional liability insurance policies and the manufacturers’ product liability insurance policies, although we have limited umbrella general and professional liability insurance. We require the independent ophthalmologists who use our vision centers to maintain professional liability insurance, though an inability of an ophthalmologist to procure insurance could disrupt business while a replacement ophthalmologist is being recruited. The availability of professional liability insurance has decreased and its cost has increased for a variety of reasons, including reasons outside our control, particularly in certain states. A future increase in cost could adversely affect the results of operations of our business, and a future lack of availability of coverage for us or our independent ophthalmologists could result in increased exposure to liability and potentially limit our ability to expand in certain markets. We own a captive insurance company and its payment of significant claims could affect our results of operations and financial condition. We maintain a captive insurance company to provide professional liability insurance coverage for claims brought against us and our optometrists after December 17, 2002. In addition, our captive insurance company’s charter allows it to provide professional liability insurance for our ophthalmologists. Our captive insurance company is capitalized and funded by us based on actuarial studies performed by an independent insurance consulting and management firm. We use the captive insurance company for both the primary insurance and excess liability coverage. A number of claims are now pending with our captive insurance company. The payment of significant claims by our captive insurance company could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 Disputes with respect to intellectual property could result in a decrease in revenues and profitability. We have not registered all of the names we use for our products and services with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. Some of our internal processes and systems do not have intellectual property protection. If a competitor were to attempt to use our names, processes or systems, we may not be able to prevent such use. The unauthorized use of our name could cause confusion among patients, and the misappropriation of internal processes or systems could reduce our competitive advantages, either of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The loss of the services of any members of our senior management team could impair our ability to execute our business strategy and as a result, reduce our sales and profitability. We depend on the continued services of our senior management team. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to execute our business strategy and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not maintain key-person insurance for members of our senior management team. See also Item 1a, “Risk Factors” – “Our proposed merger with PhotoMedex may cause disruption in our business and, if the proposed merger does not occur, we will have incurred significant expenses, we may need to pay a termination fee under the merger agreement and our stock price may decline.” Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 