Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Discovery and Development Businesses Changes in trends in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries could adversely affect our operating results. Industry trends and economic and political factors that affect pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies and government entities that sponsor clinical research, also affect our business. For example, the practice of many companies in these industries and government organizations has been to hire companies like us to conduct large development projects. If these industries reduce their tendency to outsource those projects, our operations, financial condition and growth rate could be materially and adversely affected. In the past, mergers, product withdrawal and liability lawsuits, and other factors in the pharmaceutical industry appear to have slowed decision-making by pharmaceutical companies and delayed drug development projects. Continuation or increases in these trends could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, numerous governments have undertaken efforts to control growing healthcare costs through legislation, regulation and voluntary agreements with medical care providers and pharmaceutical companies. If future regulatory cost-containment efforts limit the profits that can be derived on new drugs, our customers might reduce their drug discovery and development spending, which could reduce our revenue. Our revenue depends on a small number of industries and clients. We provide services and products to the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industries and government organizations that sponsor clinical trials, and our revenue is highly dependent on expenditures by these clients. Accordingly, our operations could be materially adversely affected by consolidation in these industries or other factors resulting in a decrease in the number of our potential customers. For example, if the number of our potential customers declines even further, they might be able to negotiate price discounts or other terms for our services and products that are less favorable to us than has historically been the case. We have experienced customer concentration in the past and could again in the future. The loss of business from a significant client could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The majority of our customers’ contracts can be terminated upon short notice. Most of our contracts for discovery and development services are terminable by the client upon 30 to 90 days’ notice. Clients terminate or delay their contracts for a variety of reasons, including but not limited to: • products being tested fail to satisfy safety requirements; • products have undesired clinical results; • the client decides to forego a particular study; • inability to enroll enough patients in the study; • inability to recruit enough investigators; • production problems cause shortages of the drug; and • actions by regulatory authorities. 19 Table of Contents The loss or delay of a large contract or multiple smaller contracts could adversely affect our operating results. We might not be able to recruit and retain the experienced personnel we need to compete in the drug discovery and development industry. Our future success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled personnel. Management Our future success depends on the personal efforts and abilities of the principal members of our senior management and scientific staff to provide strategic direction, develop business, manage our operations and maintain a cohesive and stable work environment. For example, we rely on the services of Fredric N. Eshelman, Pharm.D. our chief executive officer. Although we have employment agreements with Dr. Eshelman and other executives, they are generally only for one year and do not assure that Dr. Eshelman or any other executive with whom we have an employment agreement will remain with us. We do not have employment agreements with all of our key personnel. Healthcare Providers Our ability to maintain, expand or renew existing business with our customers and to get business from new customers, particularly in the drug development sector, depends on our ability to hire and retain healthcare providers with the skills necessary to keep pace with continuing changes in drug development technologies. Competition for experienced healthcare providers is intense. We compete with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including our customers and collaborators, other contract research companies and academic and research institutions, to recruit healthcare providers. Scientists Our ability to maintain, expand or renew existing business with our customers and to get business from new customers in both the drug development and the drug discovery areas also depends on our ability to hire and retain scientists with the skills necessary to keep pace with continuing changes in drug discovery and development technologies. We face the same risks, challenges and competition in attracting and retaining experienced scientists as we do with healthcare providers. Our inability to hire additional qualified personnel might also require an increase in the workload for both existing and new personnel. We might not be successful in attracting new healthcare providers, scientists or management, or in retaining or motivating our existing personnel. The shortage of experienced healthcare providers and scientists, or other factors, might lead to increased recruiting, relocation and compensation costs for these professionals, which might exceed our expectations. These increased costs might reduce our profit margins or make hiring new healthcare providers or scientists impracticable. If we are unable to attract and retain any of these personnel, our ability to execute our business plan will be adversely affected. Our future success depends on our ability to keep pace with rapid technological changes that could make our services and products less competitive or obsolete. The biotechnology, pharmaceutical and medical device industries generally and drug discovery and development more specifically are subject to increasingly rapid technological changes, such as the genomics revolution. Our competitors or others might develop technologies, services or products that are more effective or commercially attractive than our current or future technologies, services or products, or that render our technologies, services or products less competitive or obsolete. If competitors introduce superior technologies, services or products and we cannot make enhancements to ours to remain competitive, our competitive position, and in turn our business, revenues and financial condition, would be materially and adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents Any failure by us to comply with existing regulations could harm our reputation and operating results. Any failure on our part to comply with existing regulations could result in the termination of ongoing research or the disqualification of data for submission to regulatory authorities. This would harm our reputation, our prospects for future work and our operating results. For example, if we were to fail to verify that informed consent is obtained from patient participants in connection with a particular clinical trial or grant deviations from the inclusion or exclusion criteria in a study protocol, the data collected from that trial could be disqualified and we might be required to conduct the trial again at no further cost to our customer, but at a substantial cost to us. Furthermore, the issuance of a notice from the FDA based on a finding of a material violation by us of good clinical practice, good laboratory practice or good manufacturing practice requirements could materially and adversely affect us. Proposed and future legislation or regulations might increase the cost of our business or limit our service or product offerings. Federal or state authorities might adopt healthcare legislation or regulations that are more burdensome than existing regulations. For example, recent product safety concerns and the creation of the Drug Safety Oversight Board could change the regulatory environment for drug products, including the process for FDA product approval and post-market safety surveillance. These and other changes in regulation could increase our expenses or limit our ability to offer some of our services or products. For example, the confidentiality of patient-specific information and the circumstances under which it may be released for inclusion in our databases or used in other aspects of our business are subject to substantial government regulation. Additional legislation or regulation governing the possession, use and dissemination of medical record information and other personal health information might require us to implement new security measures that require substantial expenditures or limit our ability to offer some of our services and products. These regulations might also increase costs by creating new privacy requirements for our informatics business and mandating additional privacy procedures for our clinical research business. We might lose business opportunities as a result of healthcare reform. Numerous governments have undertaken efforts to control growing healthcare costs through legislation, regulation and voluntary agreements with healthcare providers and drug companies. Healthcare reform could reduce demand for our services and products, including potential drug candidates that are being developed by us or with others under our risk-sharing agreements, and, as a result, our revenue. In the last several years, the U.S. Congress has reviewed several comprehensive health care reform proposals. The proposals are intended to expand healthcare coverage for the uninsured and reduce the growth of total healthcare expenditures. The U.S. Congress has also considered and may adopt legislation that could have the effect of putting downward pressure on the prices that pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can charge for prescription drugs. Any such legislation could cause our discovery and development customers to spend less on research and development. If this were to occur, we would have fewer business opportunities for our development and discovery service business, which could reduce our earnings and the development of particular compounds, might be discontinued. Similarly, pending or future healthcare reform proposals outside the United States could negatively impact our revenues from our international operations. The drug discovery and development services industry is highly competitive. The drug discovery and development services industry is highly competitive. We often compete for business not only with other drug discovery and development companies, but also with internal discovery and development departments within our clients, some of which are large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies with greater resources than we have. We also compete with universities and teaching hospitals. If we do not compete successfully, our business will suffer. The industry is highly fragmented, with numerous smaller specialized companies and a handful of full-service companies with global capabilities similar to ours. Increased competition might lead to price and other forms of competition that might adversely affect our operating results. As a result of competitive pressures, our industry experienced consolidation in recent years. This trend is likely to produce more competition among the larger companies for both clients and acquisition candidates. In addition, there are few barriers to entry for smaller specialized companies considering entering the industry. Because of their size and focus, these companies might compete effectively against larger companies such as us, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. 21 Table of Contents Our business has experienced substantial expansion in the past and we might not properly manage that expansion in the future. Our business has expanded substantially in the past. Rapid expansion could strain our operational, human and financial resources and facilities. If we fail to properly manage our expansion, our results of operations and financial condition might be negatively affected. In order to manage expansion, we must, among other things, do the following: • continue to improve our operating, administrative and information systems; • accurately predict our future personnel, resource and facility needs to meet our commitments; • track the progress of ongoing projects; and • attract and retain qualified management, sales, professional, scientific and technical operating personnel. In addition, we have numerous business groups, subsidiaries and divisions. If we cannot properly manage these groups, subsidiaries or divisions, it will disrupt our operations. We also face additional risks in expanding our foreign operations. Specifically, we might find it difficult to: • assimilate differences in foreign business practices; • hire and retain qualified personnel; and • overcome language and cultural barriers. Future acquisitions or investments could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses and adversely affect our business. We anticipate that a portion of any future growth of our business might be accomplished by acquiring existing businesses, products or technologies. The success of any acquisition will depend upon, among other things, our ability to integrate acquired personnel, operations, products and technologies into our organization effectively, to retain and motivate key personnel of acquired businesses and to retain their customers. In addition, we might not be able to identify suitable acquisition opportunities or obtain any necessary financing on acceptable terms. We might also spend time and money investigating and negotiating with potential acquisition or investment targets, but not complete the transaction. Any future acquisition could involve other risks, including the assumption of additional liabilities and expenses, issuances of potentially dilutive equity securities or interest-bearing debt, transaction costs, reduction in our stock price as a result of any of these or because of market reaction to a transaction and diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. We have made and plan to continue to make investments in other companies. In many cases, there is no public market for the securities of these companies and we might not be able to sell these securities on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In addition, if these companies encounter financial difficulties, we might lose all or part of our investment. For example, in 2003, 2004 and 2005 we recorded impairments of equity investments, net, totaling $10.1 million, $2.0 million and $5.9 million, respectively, to write down the carrying value of our investments for other-than-temporary declines in value. See Note 6 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this report for a more detailed discussion of these impairments. The fixed price nature of our development contracts could hurt our operating results. The majority of our contracts for the provision of development services are at fixed prices or have set limits on the amounts we can charge for our services. As a result, variations in the timing and progress of large contracts can materially affect results. In addition, we bear the risk of cost overruns unless the scope of activity is revised from the contract specifications and we are able to negotiate a contract modification with the customer shifting the cost overrun to the customer. If we fail to adequately price our contracts, or if we experience significant cost overruns, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. In the past, we have had to commit unanticipated resources to complete projects, resulting in lower gross margins on those projects. We might experience similar situations in the future, which could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. 22 Table of Contents Our business exposes us to potential liability for personal injury claims that could affect our financial condition. Our business involves the testing of new drugs and medical devices on human volunteers and, if marketing approval is received for any of our drug candidates, their use by patients. This exposes us to the risk of liability for personal injury or death to patients resulting from, among other things, possible unforeseen adverse side effects or improper administration of a drug or device. Many of these volunteers and patients are already seriously ill and are at risk of further illness or death. We could be materially and adversely affected if we were required to pay damages or incur defense costs in connection with a claim that is outside the scope of indemnification agreements we have with clients and collaborative partners, if any indemnification agreement is not performed in accordance with its terms or if our liability exceeds the amount of any applicable insurance. We might also not be able to get adequate insurance for these risks at reasonable rates in the future. Our business uses biological and hazardous materials, which could injure people or violate laws, resulting in liability that could hurt our financial condition and business. Our drug discovery and development activities involve the controlled use of potentially harmful biological materials, as well as hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from the use, storage, handling or disposal of these materials. In the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for damages that result, and any liability could exceed our ability to pay. Any contamination or injury could also damage our reputation, which is critical to getting new business. In addition, we are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and specified waste products. The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations is significant and if changes are made to impose additional requirements, these costs could increase and have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to attract suitable willing investigators and volunteers for our clinical trials, our development business might suffer. The clinical research studies we run in our Development Group rely upon the ready accessibility and willing participation of physician investigators and volunteer subjects. Investigators are typically located at hospitals, clinics or other sites and supervise administration of the study drug to patients during the course of a clinical trial. Volunteer subjects generally include people from the communities in which the studies are conducted, including our Phase I clinic in Austin, Texas, which to date has provided a substantial pool of potential subjects for research studies. Our clinical research development business could be adversely affected if we were unable to attract suitable and willing investigators or volunteers on a consistent basis. Our business is subject to international economic, currency, political and other risks that could negatively affect our revenue and results of operations. Because we provide our discovery and development services worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Our revenue from our non-U.S. operations represented approximately 29.2% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005. We anticipate that revenue from international operations will grow in the future. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: • changes in foreign currency exchange rates, which could result in foreign currency losses; • changes in a specific country or region’s political or economic conditions; • potential negative consequences from changes in tax laws affecting our ability to expatriate profits; • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations, including risks of violations of local laws or the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act by employees overseas; and • unfavorable labor regulations, including specifically those applicable to our European operations. 23 Table of Contents For example, in 2005 our income from operations was negatively impacted by approximately $5.1 million, net, due to the effect of the weakening of the U.S. dollar relative to the euro, British pound and Brazilian real. Although we attempt to manage this risk through provisions in our contracts with our customers and other methods, including foreign currency hedging contracts, we might not be able to eliminate or manage these risks in the future and our income from operations could be materially and adversely affected by a further decline in the value of the U.S. dollar. Our inability to adequately protect our intellectual property rights could hurt our business. Our success will depend in part on our ability to protect the proprietary software, compositions, processes and other technologies we develop during the drug development process. In addition, one of our business strategies is to in-license and/or out-license rights to drug candidates and enter into collaborations with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for the development of drug candidates. Any inability to protect our intellectual property rights could materially and adversely affect our business. Any patents that we own or license might not provide valuable protection in the future for the covered technology or products. Our patent applications might never result in the issuance of a patent. Competitors might develop similar products or methods that are not covered by our issued patent claims. In addition, an issued patent might be narrowed or invalidated by a court challenge. The value of an issued patent could also be diminished if a patent is issued to a competitor that blocks our ability to use our patented technology. If blocked, we might be forced to stop using some or all of the technology or to license technology from third parties on unfavorable terms. In addition to patent protection, we also rely on copyright, trademark and trade secret protection. In an effort to maintain the confidentiality and ownership of our intellectual property, we require our employees, consultants and advisors to execute confidentiality and proprietary information agreements. These agreements and other procedures, however, might not provide us with adequate protection against improper use or disclosure of confidential information. Also, there might not be adequate remedies in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. Furthermore, from time to time we hire scientific personnel formerly employed by other companies involved in one or more areas similar to the activities we conduct. In some situations, our confidentiality and proprietary information agreements might conflict with, or be subject to, the rights of third parties with whom our employees, consultants or advisors have prior employment or consulting relationships. Although we require our employees and consultants to maintain the confidentiality of all confidential information of previous employers, both the company and these individuals might be subject to allegations of trade secret misappropriation or other similar claims as a result of their prior affiliations. Finally, others might independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Our failure to protect our proprietary information and techniques might inhibit or limit our ability to exclude competitors from the market and to execute our business strategies. The drug discovery and development industry has a history of patent and other intellectual property litigation, and we might be involved in costly intellectual property lawsuits. The drug discovery and development industry has a history of patent and other intellectual property litigation and these lawsuits will likely continue. Because we provide many different services and products in this industry and have rights to compounds, we face potential patent infringement suits by companies that have patents for similar products and methods used in business or other suits alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights. In addition to the possibility of having to defend an infringement claim asserted against us, in order to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, we might have to initiate legal proceedings against third parties. Legal proceedings relating to intellectual property could be expensive, take significant time and divert management’s attention from other business concerns, whether we win or lose. The cost of this kind of litigation could affect our profitability. Further, if we do not prevail in an infringement lawsuit brought against us, we might have to pay substantial damages, including treble damages, and we could be required to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license to use technology on unfavorable terms. 24 Table of Contents We have only limited experience in the drug discovery business, and our prospects for success in this business remain uncertain and are dependent on third parties with whom we collaborate. It takes many years for a drug discovery business like ours to generate revenue and income. We established our drug discovery group in 1997 and have only limited experience with these activities and might not be successful in our drug discovery efforts. Generating revenue and income from our drug discovery business will depend on our ability to: • develop products internally or obtain rights to them from others on favorable terms; • successfully complete laboratory testing and human studies; • obtain and maintain intellectual property rights to these products; • obtain and maintain regulatory approvals related to the efficacy and safety of these products; • enter into agreements with third parties to continue the development and commercialization of drug candidates; and • enter into arrangements with third parties to manufacture products on our behalf and to provide sales and marketing functions. Since 1997, we have entered into collaborative agreements to develop and commercialize drugs with others. Our ability to succeed in our drug discovery business will depend on successfully executing existing and any new arrangements we enter into for the development and commercialization of a drug candidate. The third parties that we collaborate with might not perform their obligations as expected or they might breach or terminate their agreements with us or otherwise fail to conduct their collaborative activities successfully and in a timely manner. Further, parties collaborating with us might elect not to develop the product candidates or not to devote sufficient resources to the development, manufacture, regulatory strategy and approvals, marketing or sale of these product candidates. If the parties to our collaborative agreements do not fulfill their obligations, elect not to develop a candidate or fail to devote sufficient resources to it, we could be materially and adversely affected. We are dependent on third parties for certain essential business functions for our risk-sharing arrangements, and failures of these third party providers could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We and some of our collaborative partners are dependent on third parties for certain functions associated with the development and commercialization of our potential drug candidates, including manufacturing and marketing and sales. Our dependence on third parties for these services might adversely affect us and our ability to develop and commercialize a drug candidate on a timely and competitive basis. If we or our collaborative partners are unable to retain or replace third-party providers of required services on commercially acceptable terms, our potential drug candidates might be delayed and might not be developed and commercialized as planned, if at all. If we encounter delays or failures by these third parties to perform, we might have to seek alternative sources of supply, lose sales or abandon a drug candidate, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We might not be able to obtain government approval for our product candidates. The development and commercialization of pharmaceutical products are subject to extensive governmental regulation in the United States and foreign countries. Government approvals are required to develop, market and sell the potential drug candidates we are developing alone or with others under our risk-sharing arrangements. Obtaining government approval to develop, market and sell drug candidates is time-consuming and expensive, and the clinical trial results for a particular drug candidate might not satisfy requirements to obtain government approvals. For example, in late 2005, ALZA Corporation, our collaborator on dapoxetine, received a “not approvable” letter from the FDA. In addition, governmental approvals might not be received in a timely manner, if at all, and we and our collaborative partners might not be able to meet other regulatory requirements for our products. Even if we are successful in obtaining all required approvals to market and sell a drug candidate, post-marketing requirements and the failure to comply with other regulations could result in suspension or limitation of government approvals. In connection with drug discovery activities outside the United States, we and our collaborators will be subject to foreign regulatory requirements governing the testing, approval, manufacture, labeling, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products. These requirements vary from country to country. Even if approval has been obtained 25 Table of Contents for a product in the United States, approvals in foreign countries must be obtained prior to marketing the product in those countries. The approval process in foreign countries may be more or less rigorous and the time required for approval may be longer or shorter than that required in the United States. Clinical studies conducted outside of any particular country may not be accepted by that country and the approval of a pharmaceutical product in one country does not assure that the product will be approved in another country. We might incur substantial expense to develop products that are never successfully developed and commercialized. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur substantial research and development and other expenses in connection with our compound partnering agreements. The potential drug candidates to which we devote resources might never be successfully developed or commercialized by us or our collaborative partners for numerous reasons, including: • preclinical and clinical trial results; • delays in manufacturing, or the inability to manufacture product for use in clinical trials or for sale following regulatory approval, if any; • competitive products with superior safety and efficacy profiles; • patent conflicts or unenforceable intellectual property rights; • failures or delays in obtaining regulatory approvals; • demand for the particular product; and • other factors that could make the product uneconomical. Incurring significant expenses for a potential drug candidate that is not successfully developed and/or commercialized could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, prospects and stock price. Our operations might be affected by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event. We depend on our customers, investigators, collaboration partners, our own laboratories and other facilities for the continued operation of our business. Although we have contingency plans in effect for natural disasters or other catastrophic events, these events, including terrorist attacks, hurricanes and ice storms, could still disrupt our operations or those of our customers, investigators and collaboration partners, which could also affect us. Even though we carry business interruption insurance policies and typically have provisions in our contracts that protect us in certain events, we might suffer losses as a result of business interruptions that exceed the coverage available under our insurance policies or for which we do not have coverage. Any natural disaster or catastrophic event affecting us or our customers, investigators or collaboration partners could have a significant negative impact on our operations and financial performance. Our development operations might be affected if there was a disruption to the air travel system. Our specialty central laboratories and some of our other discovery and development services rely heavily on air travel for transport of clinical trial kits, other materials and people, and disruption to the air travel system could have a material adverse effect on our business. While we have developed contingency plans for a variety of events that could disrupt or limit available air transportation, these plans might not be effective or sufficient to avert such a material adverse effect. Risks Related to Owning Our Stock You might not receive any dividends, and the reduction or elimination of dividends might negatively affect the market price of our common stock. We only began paying dividends as a public company in late 2005. Future dividend payments are not guaranteed and are within the absolute discretion of our Board of Directors. You might not receive any dividends as a result of any of the following factors: • we are not obligated to pay dividends; 26 Table of Contents • while our dividend policy contemplates the distribution of a portion of the excess cash generated by our business each fiscal quarter, our Board of Directors could modify or revoke the policy at any time and for any reason; • even if the dividend policy is not modified or revoked, our Board of Directors could decide to reduce dividends or not to pay any dividends at all, at any time and for any reason; • the amount of dividends distributed is subject to state law restrictions; • new credit facilities or other agreements could limit the amount of dividends we are permitted to pay; and • our stockholders have no contractual or other legal right to dividends. Our dividend policy is based upon our current assessment of the cash needs of our business and the environment in which it operates. That assessment could change due to, among other things, changes in our results of operations, cash requirements, financial condition, contractual restrictions, growth opportunities, acquisitions, competitive or technological developments, provisions of applicable law and other factors that our Board of Directors might deem relevant. The reduction or elimination of dividends might negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Our dividend policy might limit our ability to pursue other growth opportunities. Our Board of Directors has adopted a dividend policy which reflects an intention to distribute to our stockholders a portion of the cash generated by our business that exceeds our operating needs and capital expenditures as regular quarterly dividends. In developing the dividend policy, we have made assumptions for and judgments about our expected results of operations, anticipated levels of capital expenditures, income taxes and working capital. As a result of any payment made under the dividend policy, our ability to finance any material expansion of our business, including through acquisitions or increased capital spending, or to fund our operations might be more limited than if we had retained all of our cash flow from operations. Recent changes to accounting standards could cause us to record significant compensation expense and could significantly reduce our GAAP earnings in future periods. On December 16, 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment. Beginning January 1, 2006, Statement 123(R) requires us to measure all employee stock-based compensation awards using a fair value method and record such expense in our consolidated financial statements. We expect the adoption of Statement 123(R) will have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations, cash flows and earnings in future periods, which could have a material adverse affect on the market price of our common stock. See “Stock-Based Compensation” in Note 1 to Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information related to the pro forma effects on our reported net income and net income per share of applying the fair value recognition provisions of the previous SFAS No. 123 to stock-based compensation. Because our stock price is volatile, our stock price could experience substantial declines. The market price of our common stock has historically experienced and might continue to experience volatility. Our quarterly operating results, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets and other developments affecting us or our competitors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, in recent years, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. The stock market, and in particular for pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, has also experienced significant decreases in value in the past. This volatility and market decline have affected the market prices of securities issued by many companies; often for reasons unrelated to their operating performance, and might adversely affect the price of our common stock. 27 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 