Item 1A. RISK FACTORS ANY INVESTMENT IN OUR COMMON STOCK INVOLVES A HIGH DEGREE OF RISK. YOU SHOULD CAREFULLY CONSIDER THE FOLLOWING RISK FACTORS IN ADDITION TO THE OTHER INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS REPORT. Risks Related to Our Business We have a need for ongoing financing. We will need additional capital to continue to maintain and expand our operations and will endeavor to raise funds through the sale of equity shares and other types of securities and revenues from operations. There can be no assurance that we will generate revenues from operations or obtain sufficient capital on acceptable terms, if at all. Failure to obtain such capital or generate such operating revenues would have an adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations and ability to continue as a going concern. Our operating capital and capital expenditure requirements during the fiscal year ending September 30, 2011 and thereafter will vary based on a number of factors, including the level of sales and marketing activities for our services and products. Our recurring losses from operations and anticipated future losses raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our plan of operations, even if successful, may not result in cash flow sufficient to finance our business. Realization of our assets is dependent upon our continued operations, which in turn is dependent upon meeting financing requirements and the success of future operations. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on improving profitability and cash flow and securing additional financing. While we believe in the viability of our strategy to raise additional funds and that the actions presently being taken provide the opportunity to continue as a going concern, there can be no assurances to that effect. There can be no assurance that additional private or public financings, including debt or equity financing, will be available as needed, or, if available, on terms favorable to us. Any additional equity financing may be dilutive to stockholders and such additional equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges that are senior to those of our existing Common Stock. Furthermore, debt financing, if available, will require payment of interest and may involve restrictive covenants that could impose limitations on our operating flexibility. Our failure to successfully obtain additional future funding may jeopardize our ability to continue our business and operations. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, existing stockholders may experience a dilution in their ownership. In addition, as a condition to giving additional funds to us, future investors may demand, and may be granted, rights superior to those of existing stockholders. We are subject to uncertainties regarding healthcare reform. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the “PPACA”), passed by Congress and signed into law in March 2010, has created uncertainty related to our ability to grow and pursue profitable healthcare services. The PPACA has provisions with phased implementation starting in 2010 and continuing through 2014. Among the PPACA provisions are price controls and incentives placed on doctors and hospitals, insurance market reforms to increase the availability of health insurance, requirements that all individuals obtain health insurance coverage or pay a tax and the creation of government health insurance exchanges for small businesses and individuals Since Congressional approval of the PPACA, several states have passed legislation challenging the constitutionality of the legislation. We cannot predict which healthcare reforms will be adopted and, if adopted how such reforms could harm our business. It is possible that these reforms may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our business practices. If so, in addition to the possibility of fines, this could result in an order requiring that we change our business practices, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Complying with these various reforms could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. The recent disruption in the overall economy and the financial markets may adversely impact our business. Many industries, including businesses providing healthcare solutions outside of traditional hospital settings, have been affected by current economic factors, including the deterioration of national, regional and local economic conditions, declines in employment levels and shifts in consumer spending patterns. The recent disruptions in the overall economy and volatility in the financial markets have reduced, and may continue to reduce, consumer confidence in the economy, negatively affecting consumer spending, which could be harmful to our financial position. Disruptions in the overall economy may also lead to a lower collection rate on billings as consumers or businesses are unable to pay their bills in a timely fashion. Decreased cash flow generated from our businesses may adversely affect our financial position and our ability to fund our operations. In addition, macroeconomic disruptions, as well as the restructuring of various commercial and investment banking organizations, could adversely affect our ability to access the credit markets. The disruption in the credit markets may also adversely affect the availability of financing for our acquisition of interests in ambulatory surgical centers, rural hospitals, surgical hospitals and other healthcare delivery platforms. There can be no assurance that government responses to the disruptions in the financial markets will restore consumer confidence, stabilize the markets or increase liquidity and the availability of credit. 11 Table of Contents We are dependent for our success on a few key executive officers. Were we to lose one or more of these key executive officers, we would be forced to expend significant time and money in the pursuit of a replacement, which would result in both a delay in the implementation of our business plan and the diversion of working capital. Our success depends to a critical extent on the continued efforts and services of our Chief Executive Officer, David Hirschhorn and our Vice President of Finance and Controller, Sean Kirrane. Were we to lose one or more of these key executive officers, we would be forced to expend significant time and money in the pursuit of a replacement or replacements, which would result in both a delay in the implementation of our business plan and the diversion of limited working capital. We can give you no assurance that we can find satisfactory replacements for these key executive officers at all, or on terms that are not unduly expensive or burdensome to us. Although Mr. Hirschhorn has signed an employment agreement with us, his agreement does not preclude him from leaving us, nor can we assure you that the noncompetition provisions contained in his employment agreement would be enforceable in any such event. Our ability to retain or attract employees that provide healthcare services may be adversely impacted by recent changes in employee benefit programs. Our success depends to a critical extent on the healthcare services provided by our current and future employees. The recent removal of certain employee benefit programs in response to escalating health care costs may result in the loss of current employees and the inability to recruit future employees. In this event, we would be forced to expend significant time and money in the pursuit of satisfactory replacements. We can give you no assurance that we can find satisfactory replacements for these employees, or on terms that are not unduly expensive or burdensome to us. If we are unable to acquire and develop additional healthcare facilities on favorable terms, we may be unable to execute our acquisition and development strategy, which could limit our future growth. Part of our strategy to increase our revenues and earnings is through the continuing acquisition of interests in hospitals, physician practices, ambulatory surgical centers, surgical hospitals and other healthcare delivery platforms operating in partnership with physicians’. Our efforts to execute our acquisition and development strategy may be affected by our ability to identify suitable candidates and negotiate and close acquisition and development transactions. We are currently evaluating potential acquisitions and development projects and expect to continue to evaluate acquisitions and development projects in the foreseeable future. The businesses we acquire may experience losses in their early months of operation, or may never become profitable. We may not be successful in acquiring additional companies or achieving satisfactory operating results at acquired or newly developed facilities. Further, the companies or assets we acquire in the future may not ultimately produce returns that justify our related investment. If we are unable to execute our acquisition and development strategy, our ability to increase revenues and earnings through future growth would be impaired. We have incurred significant losses and may incur losses in the future. We have sustained operating losses since inception and had an accumulated deficit of approximately $95.7 million as of September 30, 2010. This deficit has been funded primarily through sales of equity, the issuance of promissory notes and cash generated from operations. Our management intends to continue in the pursuit of a growth strategy defined by acquisitions. We anticipate that our operating expenses will increase in the foreseeable future as we increase our acquisition activities, and continue to develop our technology, products and services. We will need to generate significant revenues to achieve profitability, and we cannot assure you that we will ever realize revenues at such levels. If we do achieve profitability in any period, we may not be able to sustain or increase our profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If we incur material liabilities as a result of acquiring companies, hospitals or ambulatory surgical centers, our operating results could be adversely affected. Although we conduct extensive due diligence prior to the acquisition of companies, hospitals, ambulatory surgical centers, physician practices and other healthcare businesses, and seek indemnification from prospective sellers covering unknown or contingent liabilities, we may acquire companies that have material liabilities for failure to comply with healthcare laws and regulations or other past activities. Although we maintain professional and general liability insurance, we do not currently maintain insurance specifically covering any unknown or contingent liabilities that may have occurred prior to any acquisition. If we incur these liabilities and are not adequately indemnified or insured for them, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. If we are unable to manage growth, we may be unable to achieve our growth strategy. We expect to continue to expand our operations in the future. To accommodate our past and anticipated future growth, and to compete effectively, we will need to continue to implement and improve our management, operational and financial information systems and to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce. Our personnel, systems, procedures or controls may not be adequate to support our operations in the future. Further, focusing our financial resources and management attention on the expansion of our operations may negatively impact our financial results. Any failure to implement and improve our management, operational and financial information systems, or to expand, train, manage or motivate our workforce, could reduce or prevent our growth. 12 Table of Contents If we rely on third parties to provide services that are critical to our operations, we may have reduced financial and operational control which may result in a material impact on our ability to operate. In the future, we expect to utilize third parties to provide outsourced business functions. The reduced financial and operational control over third parties poses an additional risk over having direct control over these functions. If we are unable to grow revenues at our existing facilities, our operating margins and profitability could be adversely affected. Our growth strategy includes increasing our revenues and earnings by increasing the number of procedures performed at our facilities. Because we expect the amount of the payments we receive from third-party payors to remain fairly consistent, our operating margins will be adversely affected if we do not increase the revenues and procedure volume of our facilities to offset increases in our operating costs. We seek to increase procedure volume and revenues at our surgical facilities by increasing the number of physicians performing procedures at our centers, obtaining new or more favorable managed care contracts, improving patient flow at our centers, promoting screening programs, increasing patient and physician awareness of our facilities and achieving operating efficiencies. We can give you no assurances that we will be successful at increasing or maintaining revenues and operating margins at our facilities. Appropriate acquisitions or investment opportunities may not be available. As noted above, we may use a portion of our cash resources to pursue acquisition opportunities. If we decide to seek such opportunities, our future results will be dependent on our ability to identify, attract and complete desirable acquisition opportunities, which may take considerable time. In addition, our cash position, $1.7 million at September 30, 2010, may limit the scale and therefore the number of opportunities available. Our future results will be dependent on the performance of the acquired businesses, if any. We may not be successful in identifying, attracting or acquiring desirable acquisition candidates, or in realizing profits from any acquisitions. With the completion of the acquisition of the San Diego ambulatory surgical centers, our strategy evolved during the Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2007 from a focus on investment in “platform” strategies in the business services and healthcare industries to a concentration on healthcare and ancillary services, targeting companies valued at $3 million to $50 million. In particular, we are actively seeking to build our portfolio of interests in healthcare services operations, including ambulatory surgical centers, rural hospitals, surgical hospitals and other healthcare delivery platforms operating in partnership with physicians. Our strategy is predicated on management’s belief that the provision of flexible financial solutions to ambulatory surgical centers, specialty hospitals and other healthcare platforms aligns our interests with those of physician-partners, providing the basis for interdependent relationships that should establish sound operating partnerships and deliver solid risk adjusted returns. Our portfolio is expected to consist of (i) majority interests in healthcare platforms or facilities, such as RHA and the San Diego ambulatory surgical center and (ii) equity positions in a diversified portfolio of minority interests in ambulatory surgical centers with a history of positive cash flows. In addition, we will selectively invest in business solutions providing financial and processing services to healthcare providers and physicians and in support of new treatment solutions. We will have sole and absolute discretion in identifying and selecting acquisition and investment opportunities and in structuring, negotiating and undertaking transactions with our target companies. We may acquire, invest or be sold (in whole or in part) at any time, as our Board of Directors and management determine is appropriate. Our stockholders generally will not be able to evaluate the merits of the acquisition, investment or sale (partial or otherwise) before we take any of these actions. In addition, in making decisions to complete acquisitions, investments or a sale, we will rely, in part, on financial projections developed by our management and financial advisors and the management of potential target companies. These projections will be based on assumptions and subjective judgments. The actual results of these transactions may differ significantly from these projections. A significant portion of our revenues are produced by a small number of our facilities, which are concentrated in Oklahoma and California. A significant portion of our revenues are produced by a small number of our facilities based in Oklahoma and California. Our future patient volumes, net revenues and profitability in this market could be unfavorably impacted as a result of increased competitor capacity and expansion of services. A continuation of increased provider competition in this market, as well as potential future capacity added by us and others, could result in additional erosion of the patient volumes, net revenues and financial operating results of our facilities in this market. The significant portion of our revenues derived from these facilities makes us particularly sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental and competition changes in Oklahoma and California. Any material change in the current payment programs or regulatory, economic, environmental or competitive conditions in these states could have a disproportionate effect on our overall business results. We depend on our relationships with the physicians who use our facilities. Our ability to provide medical services at our facilities would be impaired and our revenues reduced if we were unable to maintain these relationships. Our business depends upon the efforts and success of the physicians who provide medical and surgical services at our facilities and the strength of our relationships with these physicians. Our revenues would be reduced if we lost our relationship with one or more key physicians or group of physicians or if such physicians or groups reduce their use of our facilities. In addition, any failure of these physicians to maintain the quality of medical care provided or to otherwise adhere to professional guidelines at our surgical facilities, or any damage to the reputation of a key physician or group of physicians could damage our reputation, subject us to liability and significantly reduce our revenues. 13 Table of Contents Continued growth in the number of uninsured and underinsured patients or further deterioration in the collectability of the accounts of such patients could harm our results of operations. The principal collection risks for our accounts receivable relate to uninsured patient accounts and patient accounts for which the primary insurance carrier has paid the amounts required by the applicable agreement but patient responsibility amounts (e.g., deductibles, co-payments and other amounts not covered by insurance) remain outstanding. If we continue to experience significant increases in uninsured and underinsured patients and/or uncollectible accounts receivable, our results of operations could be harmed. We may incur liabilities not covered by our insurance or which exceed our insurance limits. In the ordinary course of business, our subsidiary hospitals are subject to medical malpractice lawsuits, product liability lawsuits and other legal actions. Some of these actions may involve large claims, as well as significant defense costs. We self-insure a substantial portion of our liability risks for property and other typical insurance coverage with commercial carriers, subject to self-insurance retention levels. We believe that, based on our past experience and actuarial estimates, our insurance coverage and our self-insurance reserves are sufficient to cover claims arising from the operations of our subsidiary hospitals. However, if payments for claims and related expenses exceed our estimates or if payments are required to be made by us that are not covered by insurance, our business could be harmed and our results of operations could be adversely impacted. We believe that our insurance is adequate in amount and coverage. However, in the future, insurance may not be available at reasonable prices or we may have to increase our levels of self-insurance. Because we have facilities in Oklahoma and California, we may incur liabilities or have operational difficulties as a result of damage from tornados, mudslides, earthquakes and wildfires, as well as damage from other natural disasters. We own and operate hospitals in Oklahoma. Oklahoma has one of the highest rates of tornado activity in the United States. Potential tornado damage and disruption to our hospitals, as well as employees’ homes, local businesses, local infrastructure (such as roads and bridges leading to our hospitals) and physicians’ offices could be extensive. If we experience damage as a result of tornados or other natural disasters in the vicinity of any of our Oklahoma facilities, the results of operations could be harmed due to financial losses to repair or rebuild our facilities or disruption to our customers or employees that could negatively impact our operations. We also own and operate facilities in California. Mudslides, earthquakes, wildfires and other natural disasters occur frequently in California. Potential damage and disruption in our facilities, local businesses, local infrastructure (such as roads and bridges leading to our hospitals) or employees’ homes located in California as a result of mudslides, earthquakes, wildfires or other natural disasters could be substantial. If we experience mudslides, earthquakes, wildfires or other natural disasters in the vicinity of any of our California facilities, our reputation and results of operations could be harmed due to financial losses to repair or rebuild our facilities or disruption to our customers or employees that could hurt our ability to effectively provide our services. Risks Related to Our Industry/General Market Conditions Current and future disruptions in the banking industries may limit our access to our funds or cause us to lose funds, which could negatively impact our business. We are affected by certain economic factors that are beyond our control, including changes in the overall banking environment. Due to the current economic climate, some banks may fail. The rate of bank failures has increased significantly in recent periods. A large percentage of our cash is held in banks, not all of our cash is insured by the FDIC against an event of bank failure and it would be impractically burdensome to rearrange our banking relationships to ensure a 100% insurance coverage rate on our deposits. Should a bank at which we have a deposit fail, we could lose all funds that are not insured or face significant delays in recovering funds if any recovery of our uninsured amounts is possible at all. The loss of our cash, or the ability to access our cash, could have a material adverse affect on our business and could possibly cause us to file for bankruptcy or be forced to dissolve. We depend on payments from third-party payors, including government healthcare programs. If these payments are reduced, our revenue will decrease. We are dependent upon private and governmental third-party sources of payment for the services provided to patients in our facilities. The amount of payment a facility receives for its services may be adversely affected by market and cost factors as well as other factors over which we have no control, including Medicare and Medicaid regulations and the cost containment and utilization decisions of third-party payors. Fixed fee schedules, capitation payment arrangements, exclusion from participation in or inability to reach agreement with managed care programs or other factors affecting payments for healthcare services over which we have no control could also cause a reduction in our revenues. 14 Table of Contents If federal or state healthcare programs or managed care companies reduce the payments we receive as reimbursement for services we provide, our net operating revenues may decline. In recent years, federal and state governments made significant changes in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, including the 2003 Act. Some of these changes could decrease the amount of money we receive for our services relating to these programs. In recent years, Congress and some state legislatures have introduced an increasing number of other proposals to make major changes in the healthcare system including an increased emphasis on the linkage between quality of care criteria and payment levels such as the submission of patient quality data to the Secretary of Health and Human Services. Federal funding for existing programs may not be approved in the future. Future federal and state legislation may further reduce the payments we receive for our services. In addition, insurance and managed care companies and other third parties from whom we receive payment for our services increasingly are attempting to control healthcare costs by requiring that hospitals discount payments for their services in exchange for exclusive or preferred participation in their benefit plans. We believe that this trend may continue and may reduce the payments we receive for our services, which will lead to a decrease in our revenues without a corresponding reduction in our costs. Providers in the hospital industry have been the subject of federal and state investigations and we could become subject to such investigations in the future. For the past several years, significant media and public attention has been focused on the hospital industry due to ongoing investigations related to referrals, cost reporting and billing practices, laboratory and home healthcare services and physician ownership of joint ventures involving hospitals. Both federal and state government agencies have previously announced heightened and coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts. Moreover, the OIG and the DOJ have, from time to time, established enforcement initiatives that focus on specific areas of suspected fraud and abuse. Recent initiatives included a focus on hospital billing practices. In March 2005, CMS implemented a three-year pilot recovery audit contractor program, commonly known as “RAC,” covering providers in certain states where we operate hospitals. RAC auditors are independent contractors hired by CMS. Among other things, the auditors have been focusing on clinical documentation supporting billings under the Medicare program. If an auditor concludes that such documentation does not support the provider’s Medicare billings, CMS will revise the amount due to the provider, compare such amount to what was previously paid and withhold the difference from a current remittance. The affected facility can appeal the auditor’s decision through an administrative process. At the conclusion of the pilot demonstration program, a permanent program may be implemented that will include hospital providers throughout the country. We closely monitor our billing and other hospital practices to maintain compliance with prevailing industry interpretations of applicable laws and regulations, and we believe that our practices are consistent with those in our industry. However, government investigations could be initiated that are inconsistent with industry practices and prevailing interpretations of existing laws and regulations. In public statements, government authorities have taken positions on issues for which little official interpretation had been previously available. Some of those positions appear to be inconsistent with practices that have been common within our industry and, in some cases, they have not yet been challenged. Moreover, some government investigations that were previously conducted under the civil provisions of federal law are now being conducted as criminal investigations under fraud and abuse laws. We cannot predict whether we will be the subject of future governmental investigations or inquiries. Any determination that we have violated applicable laws or regulations or even a public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations could harm our business by the issuance of injunctions requiring that we change our practices, loss of confidence by customers and damage to our reputation, fines and other losses. Becoming subject to such investigations could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. If we fail to comply with other applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. We are subject to many laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels in the jurisdictions in which we operate. These laws and regulations require that our healthcare facilities meet various licensing, certification and other requirements, including those relating to: • physician ownership of our facilities; • the adequacy of medical care, equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures; • building and safety codes; 15 Table of Contents • licensure, certification and accreditation; • billing for services; • maintenance and protection of records; and • environmental protection. We believe that we are in material compliance with applicable laws and regulations. However, if we fail or have failed to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties, including the loss of our licenses to operate and our ability to participate in Medicare, Medicaid and other government-sponsored healthcare programs. New interpretations or enforcement of existing or new laws and regulations could subject our current practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality, or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. Current or future legislative initiatives or government regulation may have a material adverse effect on our operations or reduce the demand for our services. In pursuing our growth strategy, we may expand our presence into new geographic markets. In entering a new geographic market, we will be required to comply with laws and regulations of jurisdictions that may differ from those applicable to our current operations. If we are unable to comply with these legal requirements in a cost-effective manner, we may be unable to enter new geographic markets. We are subject to “anti-kickback” and “self-referral” laws and regulations that provide for criminal and civil penalties if they are violated. The healthcare industry is subject to many laws and regulations designed to deter and prevent practices deemed by the government to be fraudulent or abusive. Unless an exception applies, Stark Law prohibits physicians from referring Medicare or Medicaid patients to providers of enumerated “designated health services” with whom the physician or a member of the physician’s immediate family has an ownership interest or compensation arrangement. Such referrals are deemed to be “self-referrals” due to the physician’s financial relationship with the entity providing the designated health services. Moreover, many states have adopted or are considering similar legislative proposals, some of which extend beyond the scope of the Stark Law to prohibit the payment or receipt of remuneration for the prohibited referral of patients for designated healthcare services and physician self-referrals, regardless of the source of the payment for the patient’s care. We review our operations from time to time and believe that we are either exempted from or in compliance with the Stark Law and similar state statutes. We are currently working to implement a more systematic review process, which will ensure ongoing compliance. When evaluating strategic joint ventures or other collaborative relationships with physicians, we consider the scope and effect of these statutes and seek to structure the arrangements in full compliance with their provisions. Nevertheless, if it is determined that certain of our practices or operations violate the Stark Law or similar statutes, we could become subject to civil and criminal penalties, including exclusion from the Medicare and/or Medicaid programs. The imposition of any such penalties could harm our business. We could fail to comply with the federal Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act, or EMTALA, which could subject us to civil monetary penalties or cause us to be excluded from participation in the Medicare program. Our hospital facilities are subject to EMTALA, which requires every hospital participating in the Medicare program to conduct a medical screening examination of each person presented for treatment at its emergency room. If a patient is suffering from an emergency medical condition, the hospital must either stabilize that condition or make an appropriate transfer of the patient to a facility that can handle the condition, regardless of the individual’s ability to pay for care. EMTALA imposes severe penalties if a hospital fails to screen, appropriately stabilize or transfer a patient, or if a hospital delays service while first inquiring about the patient’s ability to pay. Such penalties include, but are not limited to, civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in the Medicare program. In addition to civil monetary penalties, an aggrieved patient, a patient’s family or a medical facility that ultimately suffers a financial loss as a direct result of a transferring hospital’s EMTALA violation can commence a civil suit under EMTALA. Although we believe that our facilities comply with EMTALA, there can be no assurances that claims will not be brought against us and, if successfully asserted against one or more of our hospitals, such claims could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our hospitals face competition for medical support staff, including nurses, pharmacists, medical technicians and other personnel, which may increase our labor costs and adversely affect our business. We are highly dependent on our experienced medical support personnel, including nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians, seasoned local hospital management and other medical personnel. We compete with other healthcare providers to recruit and ultimately retain these healthcare professionals. On a national level, a shortage of nurses and other medical support personnel has become a significant operating issue for a number of healthcare providers. In the future, this shortage may require us to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain such personnel or require us to hire expensive temporary and per diem personnel. Additionally, to the extent that a significant portion of our employee base unionizes, or attempts to unionize, our labor costs could increase. If our wages and related expenses increase, we may not be able to raise our reimbursement rates correspondingly. Our failure to recruit and retain qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical support personnel or modulate our labor costs could adversely affect our results of operations and harm our business. 16 Table of Contents If we do not continually enhance our hospitals with the most recent technological advances in diagnostic and surgical equipment, our ability to maintain and expand our markets will be adversely affected. There are ongoing technological advances regarding CT scanners, MRI equipment, positron emission tomography (“PET”) scanners and other similar equipment. In order to effectively compete, we must continually assess our equipment needs and upgrade when significant technological advances occur. If our hospitals do not stay abreast of the technological advances in the healthcare industry, patients may seek treatment from other providers and physicians may refer their patients to alternate sources. If we are unable to effectively compete for patients, local residents could use other hospitals. The hospital industry is highly competitive. In addition to the competition we face for acquisitions and physicians, we must also compete with other hospitals and healthcare providers for patients. The competition among hospitals and other healthcare providers for patients has intensified in recent years. Our hospitals are located in non-urban service areas. However, our hospitals face competition from hospitals outside of their primary service area, including hospitals in urban areas that provide more complex services. Patients in our primary service areas may travel to these other hospitals for a variety of reasons. These reasons include physician referrals or the need for services we do not offer. Patients who seek services from these other hospitals may subsequently shift their preferences to those hospitals for the services we provide. Some of our hospitals operate in primary service areas where they compete with other hospitals. Some of these competing hospitals use equipment and services more specialized than those available at our hospitals. In addition, some competing hospitals are owned by tax-supported governmental agencies or not-for-profit entities supported by endowments and charitable contributions. These hospitals can make capital expenditures without paying sales, property and income taxes. We also face competition from other specialized care providers, including outpatient surgery, orthopedic, oncology and diagnostic centers. We expect that these competitive trends will continue. Our inability to compete effectively with other hospitals and other healthcare providers could cause local residents to use other hospitals. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We have broad discretion in using our cash resources and may not use them in a manner that our stockholders would prefer. We have broad discretion in how we use our limited cash resources. In general, our stockholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial or other information on which we base our decisions on how to use our cash resources. The choices of our Board of Directors and management on how to apply the funds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We may finance acquisitions by issuing additional capital stock or incurring substantial debt, both of which could have negative consequences. As noted, we may use a portion of our resources to pursue acquisition opportunities and the timing, size and success of our acquisition efforts and any associated capital commitments cannot be readily predicted. We may raise additional funds to complete such acquisitions. Generally, our Board of Directors has the power to issue new equity (to the extent of authorized shares) without stockholder approval. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of our then-current stockholders would be diluted, our earnings and book value per share could be diluted and, if such equity securities take the form of preferred stock, the holders of such preferred stock may have the rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of holders of Common Stock. If we are able to raise additional funds through the incurrence of debt, and we do so, we would likely become subject to restrictive financial covenants and other risks associated with the incurrence of debt. The market for our Common Stock may be illiquid. The 90-day average daily trading volume of our registered Common Stock in the over-the-counter markets derived from historical data reported by finance.google.com as of January 10, 2011 was approximately 141 shares and we have had some days with no trading. There can be no assurance that trading volumes will increase to a consistently higher level or that holders of the shares will be able to sell their shares in a timely manner or at all. 17 Table of Contents Our common stock is not listed on a national securities exchange. Our Common Stock is currently traded on the Over The Counter Bulletin Board, commonly referred to as the “OTCBB,” and we do not currently meet the listing requirements for the NASDAQ Global Market or any other national securities exchange in the United States. The fact that our Common Stock is not listed for trading in such markets may have an effect on the perception of us among potential investors or acquirers and may adversely affect the liquidity of our shares and therefore can have an effect on our ability to complete such transactions or raise additional funds. In the event we are unable to grow through acquiring or merging with other businesses or unable to obtain additional financing, our Common Stock may no longer meet listing requirements for the OTCBB and thereby eliminating any public market for our Common Stock. 