RISK FACTORS IN ADDITION TO THE OTHER INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS REPORT. Symphony House Berhad has significant voting control over the Company. Symphony House currently beneficially owns 648,860 shares of our common stock, representing 31.3% of our outstanding common stock as of March 31, 2005. In addition, as part of the Symphony Purchase Agreement, Symphony purchased an outstanding warrant from a former preferred stockholder. This warrant became exercisable on April 1, 2005 and entitles Symphony to acquire an additional 1,000,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price per share of $0.01. Therefore, assuming it exercises its warrant, Symphony House would own 1,648,860 shares of common stock, which would represent 53.6% of our common stock, when measured at March 31, 2005. As a result of its voting interest, Symphony House has significant voting influence regarding such matters as the election of our directors, amendments to our charter, other fundamental transactions such as mergers, asset sales, the sale of the Company’s business and the liquidation of the Company’s assets, and other issues regarding the direction of the Company’s affairs. In addition, this voting influence could result in actions that could have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, defer or prevent a tender offer or takeover attempt or other transaction that a stockholder might consider in its best interest, including an attempt that might result in the receipt of a premium over the market price for the shares held by such stockholders. Such actions may include creating additional classes of stock with disparate voting rights, creating a classified Board of Directors with staggered terms, prohibiting the stockholders to take any action by a written consent or requiring advance notice for stockholder proposals and director nominations. Dennis Smith, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Vsource serves as a director of Vsource Asia, which is majority owned by Symphony House. As a result of exchanging his Vsource Series 4-A Preferred Stock in the Exchange Offer, Mr. Smith also holds a minority ownership interest in Asia Holding Co. that owns a majority of the shares of Vsource Asia and Symphony House is the majority shareholder of Asia Holding Co. We have limited cash resources and a large portion of these are owed to us by Vsource Asia and there is uncertainty about full payment of this obligation. As discussed under the heading “Business – Current Operations,” we have amounts owed to us from Vsource Asia totaling $1.739 million, against which there is an estimated discount of $0.783 million because of the uncertainty of full repayment. These amounts related to legacy inter-company obligations in place prior to the completion of the Exchange Offer. We are in discussions with Vsource Asia and its parent, Symphony House, to finalize payment arrangements and to memorialize this obligation with a written promissory note or other agreement evidencing a deferred payment plan. We may also consider selling or assigning the obligation to Symphony House or a third party at a price to be mutually agreed, which price may represent a discount to the $1.739 million owed or even to the $0.956 million value ($1.739 million subtracting the $0.783 million estimated discount) we currently use to value this asset. There is, however, no assurance that we will successfully replace the Vsource Asia payment obligation with a promissory note or deferred payment plan or negotiate for the sale of the obligation to a third party. If we are unable to conclude a written promissory note or other agreement evidencing a deferred payment plan with Vsource Asia and Vsource Asia fails to honor its payment obligation and we seek legal redress or we fail to sell the obligation to a third party, this would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. 6 Table of Contents We continue to have significant corporate and SEC-related expenses and limited revenue to offset these expenses. Although we have taken measures to reduce expenses, including reducing the number of employees to three, monthly overheads, including salaries, office rent for our offices in La Jolla, California and Hong Kong, and other administrative expenses are significant when viewed as a portion of our existing cash resources. In addition, the costs associated with filings and compliance as a SEC registrant, including legal and accounting fees, represent a material cost to us. We had revenues in the amount of $254,000 during Fiscal 2005 from limited consulting services provided to third parties. There is no assurance we will be able to increase or even match these revenues in the coming year or that these revenues will cover our significant corporate and SEC-related expenses. We have broad discretion in using our cash resources and may not use them in a manner that our stockholders would prefer. We have not identified specific uses for our cash resources, and have broad discretion in how we use them. Although we may, among other opportunities, consider investments or acquisitions, including the sale of the Company, we have not identified a specific industry on which we intend to initially focus and have no present arrangements or understandings with respect the acquisition of any specific business. We may consider investment and acquisition opportunities, including the sale of the Company, outside of the business process outsourcing or broader services sector. In general, our stockholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial or other information on which we base our decisions on how to use our cash resources. The failure of our Board of Directors and management to apply the funds effectively could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Appropriate acquisitions or investment opportunities may not be available. As noted above, we may use a portion of our cash resources to pursue acquisition opportunities, including the sale of the Company. If we decide to seek such opportunities, our future results will be dependent on our ability to identify, attract and complete desirable acquisition opportunities, which may take considerable time. In addition, our cash position, $0.5 million at March 31, 2005, and the uncertainty surrounding repayment of the Vsource Asia obligation, may limit the scale and therefore the number of opportunities available. Our future results will be dependent on the performance of the acquired businesses, if any. We may not be successful in identifying, attracting or acquiring desirable acquisition candidates, or in realizing profits from any acquisitions. Pending their possible application, we anticipate that our cash resources will be placed in interest-bearing bank accounts or readily marketable interest-bearing securities. As a result of the lack of an operating business and our large number of stockholders, we must maintain our liquid assets in bank accounts or in government securities, which generally produce low returns, or comply with the requirements of the Investment Company Act of 1940. Consequently, until we complete an acquisition, we anticipate that our cash resources will yield only that rate of return earned by such interest-bearing accounts. In addition, a portion of our cash resources will be used to pay corporate overhead and administrative costs, and other expenses associated with analyzing and pursuing acquisition opportunities. 7 Table of Contents We will have sole and absolute discretion in identifying and selecting acquisition and investment opportunities and in structuring, negotiating and undertaking transactions with our target companies. We may acquire, invest or be sold (in whole or in part) at any time, as our Board of Directors and management determine is appropriate. Our stockholders generally will not be able to evaluate the merits of the acquisition, investment or sale (partial or otherwise) before we take any of these actions. In addition, in making decisions to complete acquisitions, investments or a sale, we will rely, in part, on financial projections developed by our management and financial advisors and the management of potential target companies. These projections will be based on assumptions and subjective judgments. The actual results of these transactions may differ significantly from these projections. We may finance acquisitions by issuing additional capital stock or incurring substantial debt, both of which could have negative consequences. As noted, we may use a portion of our resources to pursue acquisition opportunities and the timing, size and success of our acquisition efforts and any associated capital commitments cannot be readily predicted. We may raise additional funds to complete such acquisitions. Generally, our Board of Directors has the power to issue new equity (to the extent of authorized shares) without stockholder approval. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of the Company’s then current stockholders would be diluted, our earnings and book value per share could be diluted and, if such equity securities take the form of preferred stock, the holders of such preferred stock may have the rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of holders of common stock. If we are able to raise additional funds through the incurrence of debt, and the Company does so, we would likely become subject to restrictive financial covenants and other risks associated with the incurrence of debt. If we are deemed to be an Investment Company, we will be forced to comply with the requirements under the Investment Company Act of 1940, which could limit the flexibility of our operations. U.S. companies that have more than 100 stockholders or are publicly traded in the U.S. and are, or hold themselves out as being, engaged primarily in the business of investment, reinvesting or trading in securities are subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act of 1940. Unless a substantial part of our assets consists or, and a substantial part of our income is derived from interests in the majority-owned subsidiaries and companies that we primarily control, we may be required to register and become subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act. If we are deemed to be, and are required to register as, an investment company, we will be forced to comply with substantive requirements under the Investment Company Act, including: • limitations on our ability to borrow; • limitations on our capital structure; • restrictions on acquisitions of interests in associated companies; • prohibitions on transactions with affiliates; • restrictions on specific investments; and • compliance with reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy disclosure and other rules and regulations. Substantial costs of any securities litigation could divert our limited resources. We could become a target of securities litigation based upon the volatility of our stock in the marketplace. Litigation of this type could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. Over the past five years, our stock has declined steeply from as high as $1,700 per share to as low as $0.12 per share (in each case as adjusted to reflect our 20-to-1 reverse stock split which was effected on November 20, 2002), and as of March 31, 2005 the closing price of our common stock was $0.14 per share. Public companies suffering this much stock price volatility are often sued by their shareholders. 8 Table of Contents Additionally, we are obligated to indemnify our directors and officers as required by our bylaws under certain circumstances. Accordingly, we may be required to pay any judgments and legal costs to defend our directors and officers, in addition to the Company, in these actions, to the extent that such costs are not covered by insurance. The market for our common stock may be illiquid. The average daily trading volume of our registered common stock on the OTC Bulletin Board is currently less than 2,000 shares, and we have had some days with no trading. There can be no assurance that trading volumes will increase to a consistently higher level or that holders of the shares will be able to sell their shares in a timely manner or at all. Our stock is not listed on a major stock market Our common stock currently trades on the OTC Bulletin Board and we do not meet the listing requirements for the Nasdaq national market or any other major stock market in the United States. The listing of our stock may have an effect on the perception of our company among potential investors or acquirers and may adversely affect the liquidity of our shares and therefore can have an effect on our ability to complete such transactions or raise additional funds. 