ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this report before making an investment decision with regard to our securities. The statements contained in or incorporated into this offering that are not historic facts are forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by forward-looking statements. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. 10 Risks Associated With Our Business Most of our sales are made to the defense industries, both domestic and foreign. Our business and financial results could be adversely affected if defense spending is curtailed, which would cause the value of your investment to decline. As a percentage of total revenues, our net sales to our two largest customers, Celestica Aerospace Technologies Corporation and Selex Sistemi Integrati S.p.A., during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010 totaled approximately 24.7%, accounting for $4.0 million of our revenues in our 2010 fiscal year. These customers rely on the defense industry for orders and the defense industry relies upon the United States and foreign governments for funding. Changes in funding may occur if there is a change in the current administration or the government reduces defense spending. A decrease in business from the defense industry to our customers would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and the value of your investment. Our market is subject to rapid technological change, and to compete effectively, we must continually introduce new products or enhancements that achieve market acceptance. The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements, and evolving industry standards. We believe that we have been successful to date in investing in research and development to meet these needs and delivering products before our competitors. We believe that our future success will depend upon continued development and timely introduction of products capable of collecting or processing new types of telecommunications signals. However, we expect that new technologies will continue to emerge. Our future performance will depend on the successful development, introduction, and market acceptance of new and enhanced products that address these changes as well as current and potential customer requirements. The introduction of new and enhanced products may cause our customers to defer or cancel orders for existing products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop and market new products successfully in the future or respond effectively to technological changes, or that new products introduced by others will not render our products or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete. We also may not be able to develop the underlying core technologies necessary to create new products and enhancements or to license these technologies from third parties. Product development delays may result from numerous factors, including: • changing product specifications and customer requirements; • difficulties in hiring and retaining necessary technical personnel; • difficulties in reallocating engineering resources and overcoming resource limitations; • difficulties with contract manufacturers; • changing market or competitive product requirements; and • unanticipated engineering complexities. The development of new, technologically advanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation and highly skilled engineering and development personnel, as well as the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. We may not be able to identify, develop, manufacture, market, or support new or enhanced products successfully, if at all, or on a timely basis. Further, our new products may not gain market acceptance or we may not be able to respond effectively to product announcements by competitors, technological changes, or emerging industry standards. Any failure to respond to technological change would significantly harm our business. Our business, operating results and financial condition could be negatively impacted if demand for our products is less than we anticipate or if we fail to hire qualified employees. As a result, the value of your securities may decline. Our growth depends on our ability to successfully develop and market our products. The development and marketing of our products is dependent on a number of factors, including our ability to: • recruit and maintain a base of qualified engineers; • initiate, develop and sustain corporate and government relationships; • attract, hire, integrate and retain qualified sales and sales support employees; and • accurately assess the demands of the market. 11 Demand for our products might be less than we anticipate, or we may not be successful in recruiting and maintaining the personnel we need to develop and sell our products. In either case, our business, operating results and financial condition could be negatively impacted and the value of your securities may decline. Our primary competitors are Teledyne Defense, Miteq, Endwave Defense Systems and CTT. These competitors are much larger than we are and have more in the way of financial and other resources than we have. We have tried to create a niche market in the manufacturing of microwave integrated circuits for use by the defense industry. However, we have no contractual agreements with contractors with whom we do business that requires them to purchase minimum quantities and we cannot assure you that these contractors will continue ordering parts from us or that they will order at the same or greater levels than they have done in the past. If our customers severely reduced their orders or ceased ordering from us altogether, our business, results of operations and financial condition, as well as the value of your securities, could be materially adversely affected. Unexpected increases in the cost to develop or manufacture our products under fixed-price contracts may cause us to experience unreimbursed cost overruns. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from fixed-price contracts. Under fixed-price contracts, unexpected increases in the cost to develop or manufacture a product, whether due to inaccurate estimates in the bidding process, unanticipated increases in materials costs, inefficiencies, or other factors, are borne by us. We have experienced cost overruns in the past that have resulted in losses on certain contracts, and may experience additional cost overruns in the future. Such cost overruns would increase our operating expenses, reduce our net income and earnings per share, and have a materially adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. We may engage in future acquisitions that dilute our stockholders equity and cause us to use cash, incur debt, or assume contingent liabilities. We completed our acquisition of Microwave Power, Inc. on June 18, 2004. We acquired a controlling interest of Mica-Tech, Inc. on April 11, 2007 and subsequently the remaining interest on February 19, 2008. As part of our business strategy, we expect to continue to review opportunities to buy other businesses or technologies that would complement our current products, expand the breadth of our markets, or enhance our technical capabilities, or that may otherwise offer growth opportunities. If we buy other businesses, products or technologies in the future, we could: • incur significant unplanned expenses and personnel costs; • issue stock, or assume stock option plans that would dilute our current stockholders’ percentage ownership; • use cash, which may result in a reduction of our liquidity; • incur debt; or • assume liabilities. These purchases also involve numerous risks, including: • problems integrating the purchased operations, technologies, personnel or products; • unanticipated costs, litigation and other contingent liabilities; • diversion of management’s attention from our core business; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • risks associated with entering into markets in which we have no, or limited, prior experience; • unconsummated transactions; and • potential loss of our key employees or the key employees of an acquired organization. 12 We may not be able to successfully integrate any businesses, products, technologies or personnel that we might acquire, or to realize expected benefits of acquisitions that may occur in the future. If this occurs, our business and financial results may be adversely affected. Adverse changes in the political and economic policies of the governments of foreign countries in which we have sales could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of such countries, which could reduce the demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our competitive position. We conduct international sales in France, Israel, Spain, Turkey, Singapore, Italy, the United Kingdom, and Japan. A significant change in the economy or deterioration in United States trade relations or the economic or political stability of those foreign markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Fluctuation in the value of the U.S. dollar as compared to the currencies of non U.S. countries in which we have sales may result in decreased international sales, which could have a material adverse affect on our business. Sales to foreign customers are invoiced in U.S. dollars. Should the relative value of the U.S. dollar in comparison to foreign currencies increase, the resulting increase in the price of our products to foreign customers could result in decreased sales which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Risks Associated With Ownership of Our Securities We have not paid cash dividends and it is unlikely that we will pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We plan to use all of our earnings, to the extent we have earnings, to fund our operations. We do not plan to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We cannot guarantee that we will, at any time, generate sufficient surplus cash that would be available for distribution as a dividend to the holders of our common stock. You should not expect to receive cash dividends on our common stock. We have the ability to issue additional shares of our common stock without asking for shareholder approval, which could cause your investment to be diluted. Our Articles of Incorporation currently authorize the Board of Directors to issue up to 15,000,000 shares of common stock. The power of the Board of Directors to issue shares of common stock or warrants or options to purchase shares of common stock is generally not subject to shareholder approval. Accordingly, any additional issuance of our common stock may have the effect of further diluting your investment. We may raise additional capital through a securities offering that could dilute your ownership interest. We require substantial working capital to fund our business. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-related or convertible debt securities, these securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock. The issuance of additional common stock or securities convertible into common stock by our management will also have the effect of further diluting the proportionate equity interest and voting power of holders of our common stock. There is no active public market for our securities, so you may not be able to liquidate your securities if you need money. Trading of our common stock is sporadic. It is not likely that an active market for our common stock will develop or be sustained soon. You may not be able to liquidate our securities if you need money. We are subject to the Penny Stock Rules and these rules may adversely affect trading in our common stock. Our common stock is a “low-priced” security under rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In accordance with these rules, broker-dealers participating in transactions in low-priced securities must first deliver a risk disclosure document which describes the risks associated with such stocks, the broker-dealer’s duties in selling the stock, the customer’s rights and remedies and certain market and other information. Furthermore, the broker-dealer must make a suitability determination approving the customer for low-priced stock transactions based on the customer’s financial situation, investment experience and objectives. Broker-dealers must also disclose these restrictions in writing to the customer, obtain specific written consent from the customer, and provide monthly account statements to the customer. The effect of these restrictions probably decreases the willingness of broker-dealers to make a market in our common stock, decreases liquidity of our common stock and increases transaction costs for sales and purchases of our common stock as compared to other securities. 13 ITEM 