Risk Factors We incurred losses in 2008 and may continue to incur losses in 2009. Our procedure volume in 2008 decreased substantially from 2007 due to accelerating weakening of consumer confidence. We sustained losses in three of the four quarters in 2008 and for the full year. In 2009, we expect to continue to experience lower procedure volumes if current economic conditions, including weakness in consumer confidence and discretionary spending, persist. We expect this will result in continuing losses and negative cash flow. At December 31, 2008, we had approximately $59.5 million in cash and investments. We are uncertain as to how long the negative global economic and industry conditions will continue. If these conditions do not improve over the long-term, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Changes in general economic conditions may cause fluctuations in our revenues and profitability. The cost of laser vision correction procedures is typically not reimbursed by third-party payers such as health care insurance companies or government programs. Accordingly, as we are experiencing and have experienced in prior fiscal periods, our operating results may vary based upon the impact of changes in the disposable income of consumers interested in laser vision correction, among other economic factors. A significant decrease in consumer disposable income in a weakening economy results in a decrease in the number of laser vision procedures performed and a decline in our revenues and profitability. In addition, weak economic conditions may cause some of our customers to experience financial distress or declare bankruptcy, which may negatively impact our accounts receivable collection experience. Weak economic conditions also may change the risk profile or volume of business our unaffiliated finance company partner is willing to underwrite, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. Our industry is highly correlated with consumer confidence. Recessionary economic conditions, uncertainty in the credit markets, a period of rising energy costs and depressed housing prices have all contributed to a deterioration in volume, especially from patients at lower-income levels. Deteriorating consumer confidence can negatively impact our financial performance. The current market conditions in the credit markets and rising unemployment are creating uncertainty and causing potential customers to be more cautious in their purchasing decisions. 9 Our quarterly and annual operating results are subject to significant fluctuations. Our revenue and operating results have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year depending on many factors, including but not limited to: · Market acceptance of laser vision correction services · The number of laser vision correction procedures performed · The timing of new advancements by our suppliers and the purchase of such advancements or upgrades of equipment by us or our competitors · The impact of competitors, including those who compete by deeply discounting the price of laser vision correction services, in the geographic areas in which we operate · Declining economic conditions in the geographic areas in which we operate, which can result in decreased demand for our laser vision correction services · The opening, closing or expansion of vision centers · Our ability to manage equipment and operating costs · Collection rates on self-financed procedures · The availability of third-party financing for our patients · Regulatory matters · Litigation · Acquisitions and other transactions In addition, our revenue and operating results are subject to seasonal factors. In terms of number of procedures performed, our strongest quarter historically has been the first quarter of the year, and our business is generally weaker in the latter half of the year. We believe these fluctuations are primarily due to: · The availability to potential patients of funds under typical corporate medical flexible spending plans · Time constraints imposed by the holiday season and a desire by some individuals not to schedule procedures at that time of year Reductions in revenues or net income between quarters or our failure to achieve expected quarterly earnings per share has in the past and could in the future result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. Our business is very reliant upon direct-to-consumer marketing. The effectiveness of our marketing programs and messages to consumers can have a significant impact on our financial performance. Over the past several quarters, the effectiveness of marketing has fluctuated, resulting in changes in the cost of marketing per procedure and variations in our margins. Less effective marketing programs could negatively affect our profitability or financial condition. We derive all of our revenue from laser vision correction services. A decrease in the provision of these services could result in a significant decrease in our revenues and profitability. We derive all of our revenues from laser vision correction services. If we are not able to provide those services or the number of laser vision correction procedures we perform significantly decreases, our revenues and profitability will decrease materially. We do not have other diversified revenue sources to offset a significant decrease in revenues from our provision of laser vision correction services. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified independent ophthalmologists, our ability to open new vision centers, to maintain operations at existing vision centers or to attract patients could be negatively affected. We generate our revenues through independent ophthalmologists who work with us to perform surgeries. In certain states where the corporate practice of medicine is prohibited, we may contract with professional corporations for ophthalmologists to perform surgeries at our vision centers. The hiring of independent qualified ophthalmologists is a critical factor in our ability to successfully launch a new vision center, and the retention of those ophthalmologists is a critical factor in the success of our existing vision centers. However, it is sometimes difficult for us to hire or retain qualified ophthalmologists. If we are unable consistently to attract, hire and retain qualified ophthalmologists, our ability to open new vision centers, maintain operations at existing vision centers, or attract patients could be negatively affected. If technological changes occur which render our equipment or services obsolete, or increase our cost structure, we may need to make significant capital expenditures or modify our business model, which could cause our revenues or profitability to decline. 10 Industry, competitive or clinical factors, among others, may require us to introduce alternate ophthalmic laser technology or other surgical or non-surgical methods for correcting refractive vision disorders than those that we currently use in our laser vision correction centers. Such alternative technologies could include various intraocular lens technologies, among others. Introducing such technology could require significant capital investment or force us to modify our business model in such a way as to make our revenues or profits decline. An increase in costs could reduce our ability to maintain our profit margin. An increase in prices could adversely affect our ability to attract new patients. If a better-financed or lower-cost provider of laser vision correction or a competing vision treatment forces us to lower our laser surgery prices in a particular geographic area, our revenues and profitability could decline. Laser eye surgery competes with other surgical and non-surgical treatments for refractive vision disorders, including eyeglasses, contact lenses, other types of refractive surgery, corneal implants and other technologies currently under development. Among providers of laser vision correction, competition comes from firms similar to us and from hospitals, hospital-affiliated group entities, physician group practices and private ophthalmologists, among others, that, in order to offer laser vision correction to patients, purchase or rent excimer lasers. Suppliers of conventional eyeglasses and contact lenses, such as optometry chains, also may compete with us by purchasing laser systems and offering laser vision correction to their customers. Some of our current competitors or companies that may choose to enter the industry in the future, including laser manufacturers themselves, may have substantially greater financial, technical, managerial, marketing or other resources and experience than we do and may be able to compete more effectively. Competition in the market for laser vision correction may also increase as excimer laser surgery becomes more common and the number of ophthalmologists performing the procedure increases. Similarly, competition could increase if the market for laser vision correction does not experience growth, and existing providers compete for market share. Additional competition may develop, particularly if the price to purchase or rent excimer laser systems decreases. Our management, operations, strategy and marketing plans may not be successful in meeting this competition. If more competitors offer laser vision correction or other competitive types of vision treatments in a given geographic market, we might find it necessary to reduce the prices we charge, particularly if competitors offer the procedures at lower prices than we do. If that were to happen or we were not successful in cost effectively acquiring new patients for our procedures, we may not be able to make up for the reduced profit margin by increasing the number of procedures we perform, and our revenues and profitability could decrease, as we have experienced in prior fiscal periods. Our business has been adversely affected in the past by deeply-discounted pricing by some competitors, and it is possible that such competitive practices may adversely affect our business in the future. In the past, certain competitors have utilized deeply-discounted pricing in an effort to generate procedure volume. This practice has caused periods of intense price competition in our industry. As a result, we have lowered our prices in the past in order to remain competitive. We currently face competitors offering discounted prices, including several large chains of laser vision correction centers, in some geographic markets where we conduct business. It is possible that, in the future, our revenues and profitability could decrease as a result of the discounting practices of competitors. We have significant accounts receivable from internally financed patients that provides credit risk. A significant percentage of our patients finance some or all of the cost of their procedure. We provide certain of our patients, including patients who could not otherwise obtain third-party financing, with the ability to pay for our procedures with direct financing. The terms of our direct financing typically require the customer to pay a set fee up-front, with the remaining balance paid by the customer in up to 36 monthly installments. As of December 31, 2008, we had $15,450,000 in gross patient receivables, compared to $22,385,000 as of December 31, 2007. We are exposed to significant credit risk from our direct financing program, particularly given that patients who participate in the program generally have not been deemed creditworthy by third-party financing companies with more experience in credit issues than we have. If the uncollectible amounts exceed the amounts we have reserved, we could be required to write down our accounts receivable, and our cash flow and results of operations would be adversely affected. Bad debt expense decreased in 2008 to $5.4 million, from $7.7 million in 2007. If laser vision correction does not gain broader market acceptance, our profitability and growth will be severely limited. We believe that our profitability and expansion depend to a large extent on the acceptance of laser vision correction as a safe and effective treatment. There can be no assurance that laser vision correction will be accepted more widely by ophthalmologists, optometrists or the general population as an alternative to existing or future methods of treating refractive vision disorders. In terms of procedure volume, the industry has been relatively flat to down since 2005. Wider acceptance of laser vision correction may be affected adversely by: · Concerns about the safety and effectiveness of laser vision correction procedures, including procedures using new technologies · General resistance to surgery of any type, and eye surgery in particular 11 · Cost, particularly since laser vision correction is not typically covered by government or private insurers · The effectiveness of alternate methods of correcting refractive vision disorders, including but not limited to various intraocular lens technologies · Possible unknown side effects not yet revealed by long-term follow-up data · Regulatory developments · Reported adverse events or other unfavorable publicity involving patient outcomes from laser vision correction Concerns about potential side effects and long-term results may negatively impact market acceptance of laser vision correction, result in potential liability for us and prevent us from growing our business. Some people and publications have raised concerns with respect to the predictability and stability of results and potential complications or side effects of laser vision correction. Physicians have provided laser vision correction in the U.S. only since 1995. Any long-term complications or side effects of laser vision correction may call into question its safety and effectiveness, which in turn may negatively affect market acceptance of laser vision correction. Complications or side effects of laser vision correction could lead to professional liability, malpractice, product liability or other claims against us. Courts have awarded several significant verdicts against non-affiliated refractive surgeons in the past. Consequences of proceedings could include increased liability to us in connection with malpractice litigation, increased difficulty in hiring and retaining qualified independent ophthalmologists who may be wary of the increased liability of laser eye surgery, and decreased operational and financial yield from pre-operative examinations, among other effects that would be adverse to our results of operations and profitability. Some of the possible side effects of laser vision correction may include: · Foreign body sensation · Pain or discomfort · Sensitivity to bright lights · Blurred vision or haze · Dryness or tearing · Fluctuation in vision · Night glare and halos · Poor or reduced visual quality · Overcorrection or undercorrection · Regression · Decreased corneal integrity · Corneal flap or corneal healing complications · Loss of best corrected visual acuity · Inflammation or infection of the eye · Need for corrective lenses or reading glasses post-operatively · Need for further treatment We depend on limited sources for the excimer lasers, diagnostic equipment, microkeratomes and disposable blades we use and for the third-party financing made available to our patients. Shortages of these items or services could hinder our ability to increase our procedure volume. We currently use three suppliers - Bausch & Lomb, Abbott Medical Optics and Alcon - for our lasers. If any or all of these companies became unwilling or unable to supply us with excimer lasers and diagnostic equipment to repair or replace parts or to provide services, our ability to open new vision centers or increase our capacity to perform laser vision correction services at existing vision centers could be restricted. We plan to reduce our excimer laser suppliers to two during 2009. We currently rely primarily on Bausch & Lomb, Abbott Medical Optics and McKesson to provide us with microkeratomes and patient interface kits, the devices used to create the corneal flap in the LASIK procedure, as well as with microkeratome blades and other disposable items required for LASIK. There are a limited number of manufacturers of patient interface kits, microkeratomes and microkeratome blades, and, if we were to require alternate or additional suppliers, there can be no assurance that such items would be available in the quantities or within the time frames we require. Any shortages in our supplies of this equipment could limit our ability to maintain or increase the volume of procedures that we perform, which could result in a decrease in our revenues and profitability. We currently rely exclusively on one unaffiliated finance company for third-party financing made available to our patients. The percentage of our patients who choose to obtain financing from such unaffiliated finance company is significant. There can be no assurance that financing services will be available in such structures or at such interest rates or costs as we or our patients may require. Any reduction in available financing could limit our ability to maintain or increase the volume of procedures that we perform, which could result in a decrease in our revenues and profitability. 12 Our business may be impaired due to government regulations which could restrict our equipment, services and relationships with ophthalmologists, optometrists and other healthcare providers. As described under “Government Regulation” and below, we, excimer laser manufacturers and our other business partners, including managed care companies and third-party patient financing companies, among others, are subject to extensive federal, state and foreign laws, rules and regulations, including all or some of the following: · Federal restrictions on the approval, distribution and use of medical devices · Anti-kickback statutes in some states · Fee-splitting laws in some states · Corporate practice of medicine restrictions in some states · Physician self-referral laws in some states · Anti-fraud provisions in some states · Facility license requirements and certificates of need in some states · Conflict of interest regulations in some states · Rules and regulations regarding advertising and marketing practices in some states Some of these laws and regulations are vague or ambiguous, and courts and regulatory authorities have not always provided clarification. Moreover, state and local laws, including but not limited to those on sales and use taxes, vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. As a result, some of our activities could be challenged, the success of which cannot be predicted. The failure of our suppliers to obtain regulatory approvals for any additional uses of excimer lasers or otherwise comply with regulatory requirements could limit the number of excimer lasers we have available for use and, therefore, limit the number of procedures we can perform. Failure of the laser manufacturers to comply with applicable FDA requirements could subject us, the independent ophthalmologists who practice in our vision centers or those manufacturers to enforcement actions, including product seizure, recalls, withdrawal of approvals and civil and criminal penalties. Further, failure to comply with regulatory requirements, or any adverse regulatory action, could result in limitations or prohibitions on our use of excimer lasers. Any such actions or proceedings could result in negative publicity, which in turn could result in decreased demand for our services and in a decrease in our capacity to perform laser vision correction services. Our business is heavily dependent on advertising, which is subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and various state boards of medicine and optometry. We are subject to a 2003 FTC Consent Order in which it was agreed, among other things, that we would not represent in our advertising that our LASIK surgery services eliminate the need for glasses and contacts for life, pose significantly less risk to patients’ eye health than wearing glasses or contacts, or eliminate the risk of glare and haloing, unless, at the time made, we possess and rely upon competent and reliable scientific evidence that substantiates the representation. We cannot be certain that this order to which we agreed, or any future action by the FTC, will not restrict our laser vision correction services, or otherwise result in negative publicity and damage our reputation. We are subject to lawsuits for patient injuries, which could subject us to significant judgments and damage our reputation. The laser vision correction procedures performed in our vision centers involve the risk of injury to patients. Such risk could result in professional liability, malpractice, product liability, or other claims brought against us or our independent ophthalmologists and optometrists based upon injuries or alleged injuries associated with a defect in a product’s performance or malpractice by an ophthalmologist, optometrist, technician or other health care professional. Some injuries or defects may not become evident for a number of years. Significant lawsuits against us could subject us to significant judgments and damage our reputation. In addition, a partially or completely uninsured claim against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely primarily and intend to continue to rely primarily on the independent ophthalmologists’ professional liability insurance policies and the manufacturers’ product liability insurance policies, although we have limited umbrella general and professional liability insurance. We require the independent ophthalmologists who use our vision centers to maintain certain levels of professional liability insurance, although there can be no guarantee that the ophthalmologists will be successful in obtaining or maintaining such insurance coverage, particularly in the current insurance market. The availability of professional liability insurance has decreased and its cost has increased significantly for a variety of reasons, including reasons outside our control, particularly in certain states. A future increase in cost could result in the reduced profitability of our business, and a future lack of availability of coverage for us or our independent ophthalmologists and optometrists could result in increased exposure to liability and potentially limit our ability to expand in certain markets. We own a captive insurance company and, if it pays significant claims, it could affect our results of operations and financial condition. 13 We maintain a captive insurance company to provide professional liability insurance coverage for claims brought against us after December 17, 2002. In addition, our captive insurance company’s charter allows it to provide professional liability insurance for our doctors. Our captive insurance company is capitalized and funded by us based on actuarial studies performed by an independent insurance consulting and management firm. The Company uses the captive insurance company for both the primary insurance and the excess liability coverage. A number of claims are now pending with our captive insurance company. The payment of significant claims by our captive insurance company could negatively affect our profitability and our financial condition. Disputes with respect to intellectual property could result in a decrease in revenues and profitability. We have not registered all of the names we use for our products and services with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. Some of our internal processes and systems do not have intellectual property protection. If a competitor were to attempt to use our names, processes or systems, we may not be able to prevent such use. The unauthorized use of our name could cause confusion among our customers, and the misappropriation of internal processes or systems could reduce our competitive advantages, either of which could negatively affect our profitability or financial condition. A group headed by our former Chairman is seeking a change in control of our Company, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In February 2009, a group led by Steven N. Joffe, Craig P.R. Joffe and Alan H. Buckey (the “Joffe Group”) began to solicit written consents from our stockholders to remove our current Board of Directors without cause and to replace them with Steven N. Joffe and four other individuals designated by the Joffe Group. The Joffe Group has stated that if successful in obtaining control of our Board of Directors, it will propose that the new Board remove our existing senior executives and replace them with Messrs. Joffe, Joffe and Buckey as Chairman, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer, respectively. Our Board of Directors has determined unanimously that the Joffe Group’s proposals are not in the best interests of our stockholders and is opposing their consent solicitation. If the Joffe Group were to be successful in obtaining sufficient stockholder consents to obtain control of our Board of Directors, the resultant change of control would constitute an event of default under our Loan and Security Agreement dated as of April 24, 2008 with PNC Equipment Finance, LLC, which would permit the lender to accelerate the maturity of all of the debt outstanding under that agreement (approximately $16.6 million at February 9, 2009). In addition, the change of control would also permit GE Money Bank to terminate the open-ended patient financing program that financed approximately 54% of our revenues in 2008. Furthermore, termination of our four current senior executive officers would require us to pay them an aggregate of approximately $1.5 million in severance payments and benefit continuations. Finally, the Joffe Group has stated that, if successful, it intends to ask our new Board to reimburse its expenses in connection with the consent solicitation, which it estimates at $200,000. In addition to the foregoing direct costs, our Board believes that, if the Joffe Group were successful, the new Board and management team proposed by the Joffe Group would abandon or reverse many of the initiatives taken by our current management team which we believe have positioned us for future success. The Joffe Group has advised us that if they are unsuccessful in their consent solicitation they intend to nominate the same five individuals for election as directors at our 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which may have the same material adverse effects as discussed above. We are defendants in litigation which, if adversely determined, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. On September 13, 2007, and October 1, 2007, two complaints were filed against us and certain of our current and former directors and officers by Beaver County Retirement Board and Spencer and Jean Lin, respectively, in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio (Western Division) purportedly on behalf of a class of stockholders who purchased our common stock between February 12, 2007 and July 30, 2007. On November 8, 2007, an additional complaint was filed by named plaintiff Diane B. Callahan against us and certain of our current and former directors and officers in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio (Western Division). This third action was filed purportedly on behalf of a class of stockholders who purchased our common stock between February 12, 2007 and November 2, 2007. These actions have been consolidated into one action. A consolidated complaint was filed on April 19, 2008. The plaintiffs in the consolidated complaint are seeking damages on behalf of a class of stockholders who purchased our common stock between October 24, 2006 and November 2, 2007, asserting claims under Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. They allege that certain of our public disclosures regarding our financial performance and prospects were false or misleading. On July 10, 2008, we, together with the other defendants, filed a motion to dismiss the consolidated complaint. On September 5, 2008, plaintiffs filed their memorandum in opposition to the motion to dismiss. We strongly believe that these claims lack merit, and we intend to defend against the claims vigorously. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation, we cannot predict the outcome of the act at this time, and can give no assurance that these claims will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. 14 On October 5, 2007, a complaint was filed in the Court of Common Pleas, Hamilton County, Ohio, against certain of our current and former officers and directors, derivatively on our behalf. The plaintiff, Nicholas Weil, asserts that three of the defendants breached their fiduciary duties when they allegedly sold LCA-Vision's securities on the basis of material non-public information in 2007. The plaintiff also asserts claims for breach of fiduciary duty, abuse of control, corporate waste, and unjust enrichment in connection with the disclosures that also are the subject of the securities actions described above. We are named as a nominal defendant in the complaint, although the action is derivative in nature. The plaintiff demands damages and attorneys fees, and seeks other equitable relief. On December 20, 2007, the court stayed this action, pursuant to a stipulation of the parties, pending the resolution of the motion to dismiss filed in the consolidated class action, discussed above. We are in the process of evaluating these claims. However, due to the inherent uncertainty of litigation, we cannot predict the outcome of the action at this time, and can give no assurance that these claims will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 