Item 1A. Risk Factors A description of the risk factors associated with our business is set forth below. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with all other information contained or incorporated by reference in this filing, before you decide to purchase shares of our common stock. These factors could cause our future results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by forward-looking statements made by us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also harm our business. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks and you may lose all or part of your investment. Our annual and quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly and are difficult to predict, particularly given adverse domestic and global economic conditions. Our annual and quarterly operating results are likely to vary significantly in the future based on a number of factors many of which we have little or no control. These factors include, but are not limited to: • the growth, evolution and rate of adoption of industry standards for our key markets, including consumer electronics, digital-ready PCs and displays and storage devices and systems; • the fact that our licensing revenue is heavily dependent on a few key licensing transactions being completed for any given period, the timing of which is not always predictable and is especially susceptible to delay beyond the period in which completion is expected and our concentrated dependence on a few licensees in any period for substantial portions of our expected licensing revenue and profits; • the fact that our licensing revenue has been uneven and unpredictable over time and is expected to continue to be uneven and unpredictable for the foreseeable future, resulting in considerable fluctuation in the amount of revenue recognized in a particular quarter; • competitive pressures, such as the ability of competitors to successfully introduce products that are more cost-effective or that offer greater functionality than our products, including integration into their products of functionality offered by our products, the prices set by competitors for their products and the potential for alliances, combinations, mergers and acquisitions among our competitors; • average selling prices of our products, which are influenced by competition and technological advancements, among other factors; • government regulations regarding the timing and extent to which digital content must be made available to consumers; • the availability of other semiconductors or other key components that are required to produce a complete solution for the customer; usually, we supply one of many necessary components; and • the cost of components for our products and prices charged by the third parties who manufacture, assemble and test our products. • fluctuations in market demand, one-time sales opportunities and sales goals, sometimes results in heightened sales efforts during a given period that may adversely affect our sales in future periods. Because we have little or no control over these factors and/or their magnitude, our operating results are difficult to predict. Any substantial adverse change in any of these factors could negatively affect our business and results of operations. -13 - Our annual and quarterly operating results are highly dependent upon how well we manage our business. Our annual and quarterly operating results are highly dependent upon and may fluctuate based on how well we manage our business. Some of these factors include the following: • our ability to manage product introductions and transitions, develop necessary sales and marketing channels and manage other matters necessary to enter new market segments; • our ability to successfully manage our business in multiple markets such as CE, PC and storage, which may involve additional research and development, marketing or other costs and expenses; • our ability to enter into licensing deals when expected and make timely deliverables and milestones on which recognition of revenue often depends; • our ability to engineer customer solutions that adhere to industry standards in a timely and cost-effective manner; • our ability to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields and develop automated test programs within a reasonable time frame for our new products; • our ability to manage joint ventures and projects, design services and our supply chain partners; • our ability to monitor the activities of our licensees to ensure compliance with license restrictions and remittance of royalties; • our ability to structure our organization to enable achievement of our operating objectives and to meet the needs of our customers and markets; • the success of the distribution and partner channels through which we choose to sell our products and • our ability to manage expenses and inventory levels; and, • our ability to successfully maintain certain structural and various compliance activities in support of our global structure which in the long run, will result in certain operational benefits as well as achieve an overall lower tax rate. If we fail to effectively manage our business, this could adversely affect our results of operations. Our business has been and may continue to be significantly impacted by the deterioration in worldwide economic conditions, and the current uncertainty in the outlook for the global economy makes it more likely that our actual results will differ materially from expectations. Global credit and financial markets continue to experience disruptions, including diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, increases in unemployment rates, and continued uncertainty about economic stability. Despite signs of improvement, there can be no assurance that there will not be renewed deterioration in credit and financial markets and confidence in economic conditions. These economic uncertainties affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways, making it difficult to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. The continued or further tightening of credit in financial markets may lead consumers and businesses to postpone spending, which may cause our customers to cancel, decrease or delay their existing and future orders with us. In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers or distributors could result in product delays, increased accounts receivable defaults and inventory challenges. The volatility in the credit markets has severely diminished liquidity and capital availability. Our CE product revenue, which comprised approximately 68.0%, 61.1% and 66.4% of total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, is dependent on continued demand for consumer electronics, including but not limited to, DTVs, STBs, DVDs and game consoles. Demand for consumer electronics business is a function of the health of the economies in the United States and around the world. As a result of the recent recession experience by the US economy and other economies around the world, the demand for overall consumer electronics has been and may continue to be adversely affected. As a result, the demand for our CE, PC and storage products and our operating results have been and may continue to be adversely affected as well. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic disruption or subsequent economic recovery, worldwide, in the United States, in our industry, or in the consumer electronics market. These and other economic factors have had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on demand for our CE, PC and storage products and on our financial condition and operating results. Investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed rate debt securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. Due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates. We may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that decline in market value due to changes in interest rates. Recent adverse events in the global economy and in the credit markets could negatively impact our return on investment for these debt securities and thereby reduce the amount of cash and cash equivalents and investments on our balance sheet. - 14 - The licensing component of our business strategy increases business risk and volatility. Part of our business strategy is to license intellectual property (IP) through agreements with companies whereby companies incorporate our IP into their respective technologies that address markets in which we do not want to directly participate. There can be no assurance that additional companies will be interested in purchasing our technology on commercially favorable terms or at all. We also cannot ensure that companies who purchase our technology will introduce and sell products incorporating our technology, will accurately report royalties owed to us, will pay agreed upon royalties, will honor agreed upon market restrictions, will not infringe upon or misappropriate our intellectual property and will maintain the confidentiality of our proprietary information. The IP agreements are complex and depend upon many factors including completion of milestones, allocation of values to delivered items and customer acceptances. Many of these factors require significant judgments. Licensing revenue could fluctuate significantly from period to period because it is heavily dependent on a few key deals being completed in a particular period, the timing of which is difficult to predict and may not match our expectations. Because of its high margin content, the licensing mix of our revenue can have a disproportionate impact on gross profit and profitability. Also, generating revenue from these arrangements is a lengthy and complex process that may last beyond the period in which efforts begin and once an agreement is in place, the timing of revenue recognition may be dependent on customer acceptance of deliverables, achievement of milestones, our ability to track and report progress on contracts, customer commercialization of the licensed technology and other factors. Licensing that occurs in connection with actual or contemplated litigation is subject to risk that the adversarial nature of the transaction will induce non-compliance or non-payment. The accounting rules associated with recognizing revenue from these transactions are increasingly complex and subject to interpretation. Due to these factors, the amount of license revenue recognized in any period may differ significantly from our expectations. We face intense competition in our markets, which may lead to reduced revenue from sales of our products and increased losses. The CE, PC and storage markets in which we operate are intensely competitive. These markets are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving standards, short product life cycles and declining selling prices. We expect competition for many of our products to increase, as industry standards become widely adopted, as competitors reduce prices and offer products with greater levels of integration, and as new competitors enter our markets. Our products face competition from companies selling similar discrete products and from companies selling products such as chipsets and SoCs with integrated functionality. Our competitors include semiconductor companies that focus on the CE, display or storage markets, as well as major diversified semiconductor companies and we expect that new competitors will enter our markets. Current or potential customers, including our own licensees, may also develop solutions that could compete with us, including solutions that integrate the functionality of our products into their solutions. In addition, current or potential OEM customers may have internal semiconductor capabilities and may develop their own solutions for use in their products rather than purchasing them from companies such as us. Some of our competitors have already established supplier or joint development relationships with current or potential customers and may be able to leverage their existing relationships to discourage these customers from purchasing products from us or persuade them to replace our products with theirs. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater presence in key markets, better name recognition, access to larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than we do and as a result, they may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and customer requirements, or devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products. In particular, well-established semiconductor companies, such as Analog Devices, NXP, Broadcom, Intel, National Semiconductor and Texas Instruments and CE manufacturers, such as Panasonic, Sony, Samsung and Toshiba, may compete against us in the future. Some of our competitors could merge, which may enhance their market presence. Existing or new competitors may also develop technologies that more effectively address our markets with products that offer enhanced features and functionality, lower power requirements, greater levels of integration or lower cost. Increased competition has resulted in and is likely to continue to result in price reductions and loss of market share in certain markets. We cannot assure you that we can compete successfully against current or potential competitors, or that competition will not reduce our revenue and gross margins. We operate in rapidly evolving markets, which makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects. The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving customer needs and frequent introductions of new products and standards. As we adjust to evolving customer requirements and technological advances, we may be required to further reposition our existing offerings and to introduce new products and services. We may not be successful in developing and marketing such new offerings, or we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the development and marketing of such new offerings. Moreover, new standards that compete with standards that we promote have been and in the future may be introduced from time to time, which could impact our success. Accordingly, we face risks and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in new and rapidly evolving markets. If we do not successfully address these risks and difficulties, our results of operations could be negatively affected. - 15 - Our success depends on demand for our new products. Our future growth and success depends on our ability to develop and bring to market on a timely basis new products, such as our HDMI port processors and products based on our new Mobile High-Definition Link Technology. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing and marketing these new or other future products. Moreover, there is no assurance that our new or future products will achieve the desired level of market acceptance in the anticipated timeframes or that any such new or future products will contribute significantly to our revenue. Our new products face significant competition from established companies that have been selling competitive products for longer periods of time than we have. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies or in achieving higher levels of design integration, which may result in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. To remain competitive, we expect to continue to transition our semiconductor products to increasingly smaller line width geometries. This transition requires us to modify the manufacturing processes for our products and to redesign some products as well as standard cells and other integrated circuit designs that we may use in multiple products. We periodically evaluate the benefits, on a product-by-product basis, of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies to reduce our costs. Currently most of our products are manufactured in .18 micron and .13 micron, geometry processes. We are now designing a new product in 65 nanometer process technology and planning for the transition to smaller process geometries. In the past, we have experienced some difficulties in shifting to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. The transition to 65 nanometer geometry process technology will result in significantly higher mask and prototyping costs, as well as additional expenditures for engineering design tools and related computer hardware. We may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes. We are dependent on our relationships with our foundry subcontractors to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. We cannot assure you that the foundries that we use will be able to effectively manage the transition in a timely manner, or at all, or that we will be able to maintain our existing foundry relationships or develop new ones. If any of our foundry subcontractors or we experience significant delays in this transition or fail to efficiently implement this transition, we could experience reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses, all of which could harm our relationships with our customers and our results of operations. We will have difficulty selling our products if customers do not design our products into their product offerings or if our customers’ product offerings are not commercially successful. Our products are generally incorporated into our customers’ products at the design stage. As a result, we rely on equipment manufacturers to select our products to be designed into their products. Without these “design wins,” it is very difficult to sell our products. We often incur significant expenditures on the development of a new product without any assurance that an equipment manufacturer will select our product for design into its own product. Additionally, in some instances, we are dependent on third parties to obtain or provide information that we need to achieve a design win. Some of these third parties may be our competitors and, accordingly, may not supply this information to us on a timely basis, if at all. Once an equipment manufacturer designs a competitor’s product into its product offering, it becomes significantly more difficult for us to sell our products to that customer because changing suppliers involves significant cost, time, effort and risk for the customer. Furthermore, even if an equipment manufacturer designs one of our products into its product offering, we cannot be assured that its product will be commercially successful or that we will receive any revenue from that product. Sales of our products largely depend on the commercial success of our customers’ products. Our customers generally can choose at any time to stop using our products if their own products are not commercially successful or for any other reason. We cannot assure you that we will continue to achieve design wins or that our customers’ equipment incorporating our products will ever be commercially successful. - 16 - Our products typically have lengthy sales cycles. A customer may decide to cancel or change its product plans, which could cause us to lose anticipated sales. In addition, our average product life cycles tend to be short and, as a result, we may hold excess or obsolete inventory that could adversely affect our operating results. After we have developed and delivered a product to a customer, the customer will usually test and evaluate our product prior to designing its own equipment to incorporate our product. Our customers generally need three months to over six months to test, evaluate and adopt our product and an additional three months to over nine months to begin volume production of equipment that incorporates our product. Due to this lengthy sales cycle, we may experience significant delays from the time we incur operating expenses and make investments in inventory until the time that we generate revenue from these products. It is possible that we may never generate any revenue from these products after incurring such expenditures. Even if a customer selects our product to incorporate into its equipment, we have no assurances that the customer will ultimately market and sell its equipment or that such efforts by our customer will be successful. The delays inherent in our lengthy sales cycle increase the risk that a customer will decide to cancel or change its product plans. Such a cancellation or change in plans by a customer could cause us to lose sales that we had anticipated. In addition, anticipated sales could be materially and adversely affected if a significant customer curtails, reduces or delays orders during our sales cycle or chooses not to release equipment that contains our products. Further, the combination of our lengthy sales cycles coupled with worldwide economic conditions could have a compounding negative impact on the results of our operations. While our sales cycles are typically long, our average product life cycles tend to be short as a result of the rapidly changing technology environment in which we operate. As a result, the resources devoted to product sales and marketing may not generate material revenue for us and from time to time, we may need to write off excess and obsolete inventory. If we incur significant marketing expenses and investments in inventory in the future that if we are not able to recover and we are not able to compensate for those expenses, our operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, if we sell our products at reduced prices in anticipation of cost reductions but still hold higher cost products in inventory, our operating results would be harmed. Our customers may not purchase anticipated levels of products, which can result in excess inventories. We generally do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers and, in order to accommodate the requirements of certain customers, we may from time to time build inventory that is specific to that customer in advance of receiving firm purchase orders. The short-term nature of our customers’ commitments and the rapid changes in demand for their products reduce our ability to accurately estimate the future requirements of those customers. Should the customer’s needs shift so that they no longer require such inventory, we may be left with excessive inventories, which could adversely affect our operating results. - 17 - We depend on a few key customers and the loss of any of them could significantly reduce our revenue. Historically, a relatively small number of customers and distributors have generated a significant portion of our revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2009, shipments to Microtek, Inc. and Weikeng Industrial generated 11.9% and 10.3% of our revenue, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2008, shipments to World Peace Industrial generated 14.6% of our revenue, shipments to Microtek, Inc. generated 11.8% of our revenue, shipments to Weikeng Industrial generated 11.5% of our revenue and shipments to Innotech Corporation generated 10.5% of our revenue. In addition, an end-customer may buy our products through multiple distributors, contract manufacturers and /or directly, which could create an even greater concentration. We cannot be certain that customers and key distributors that have accounted for significant revenue in past periods, individually or as a group, will continue to sell our products and generate revenue. As a result of this concentration of our customers, our results of operations could be negatively affected if any of the following occurs: • one or more of our customers, including distributors, becomes insolvent or goes out of business; • one or more of our key customers or distributors significantly reduces, delays or cancels orders; and/or • one or more significant customers selects products manufactured by one of our competitors for inclusion in their future product generations. While our participation in multiple markets, has broadened our customer base, as product mix fluctuates from quarter to quarter, we may become more dependent on a small number of customers or a single customer for a significant portion of our revenue in a particular quarter, the loss of which could adversely affect our operating results. We sell our products through distributors, which limits our direct interaction with our end customers, therefore reducing our ability to forecast sales and increasing the complexity of our business. Many original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) rely on third-party manufacturers or distributors to provide inventory management and purchasing functions. Distributors generated 59.9% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009, 60.2% of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007. Selling through distributors reduces our ability to forecast sales and increases the complexity of our business, requiring us to: • manage a more complex supply chain; • monitor and manage the level of inventory of our products at each distributor; • estimate the impact of credits, return rights, price protection and unsold inventory at distributors; and, • monitor the financial condition and credit-worthiness of our distributors, many of which are located outside of the United States and the majority of which are not publicly traded. Since we have limited ability to forecast inventory levels at our end customers, it is possible that there may be significant build-up of inventories in the distributor channel, with the OEM or the OEM’s contract manufacturer. Such a buildup could result in a slowdown in orders, requests for returns from customers, or requests to move out planned shipments. This could adversely impact our revenues and profits. Any failure to manage these challenges could disrupt or reduce sales of our products and unfavorably impact our financial results. - 18 - Our success depends on the development and introduction of new products, which we may not be able to do in a timely manner because the process of developing high-speed semiconductor products is complex and costly. The development of new products is highly complex and we have experienced delays, some of which exceeded one year, in the development and introduction of new products on several occasions in the past. We have recently introduced new products and will continue to introduce new products in the future. As our products integrate new, more advanced functions, they become more complex and increasingly difficult to design, manufacture and debug. Successful product development and introduction depends on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: • accurate prediction of market requirements and the establishment of market standards and the evolution of existing standards, including enhancements or modifications to existing standards such as HDMI, HDCP, DVI, SATA and SPMT; • identification of customer needs where we can apply our innovation and skills to create new standards or areas for product differentiation that improve our overall competitiveness either in an existing market or in a new market; • development of advanced technologies and capabilities and new products that satisfy customer requirements; • competitors’ and customers’ integration of the functionality of our products into their products, which puts pressure on us to continue to develop and introduce new products with new functionality; • timely completion and introduction of new product designs; correctly anticipating the market windows that will maximize acceptance of our products and then delivering the products to the markets within the required windows; • management of product life cycles; • use of leading-edge foundry processes, when use of such processes are required and achievement of high manufacturing yields and low cost testing; • market acceptance of new products; and, • market acceptance of new architectures such as our input processors. Accomplishing all of this is extremely challenging, time-consuming and expensive and there is no assurance that we will succeed. Product development delays may result from unanticipated engineering complexities, changing market or competitive product requirements or specifications, difficulties in overcoming resource constraints, the inability to license third-party technology or other factors. Competitors and customers may integrate the functionality of our products into their own products, thereby reducing demand for our products. If we are not able to develop and introduce our products successfully and in a timely manner, our costs could increase or our revenue could decrease, both of which would adversely affect our operating results. In addition, it is possible that we may experience delays in generating revenue from these products or that we may never generate revenue from these products. We must work with a semiconductor foundry and with potential customers to complete new product development and to validate manufacturing methods and processes to support volume production and potential re-work. Each of these steps may involve unanticipated difficulties, which could delay product introduction and reduce market acceptance of the product. In addition, these difficulties and the increasing complexity of our products may result in the introduction of products that contain defects or that do not perform as expected, which would harm our relationships with customers and our ability to achieve market acceptance of our new products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve design wins for our planned new products, that we will be able to complete development of these products when anticipated, or that these products can be manufactured in commercial volumes at acceptable yields, or that any design wins will produce any revenue. Failure to develop and introduce new products, successfully and in a timely manner, may adversely affect our results of operations. - 19 - There are risks to our global strategy. We maintain operations in various countries around the world where we realize certain operational benefits from our global strategy and our overall tax rate has benefited favorably. The effectiveness of the strategy requires, in addition to maintaining and increasing profitability, continued maintenance of a certain corporate structure and various compliance activities required by foreign jurisdictions in support of the structure. Should management fail to adhere to these compliance requirements or fail to maintain supportive processes, our ability to continue to realize the benefits of our global strategy may be jeopardized, which may adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Governmental action against companies located in offshore jurisdictions may lead to a reduction in the demand for our common shares. Recent federal and state legislation has been proposed, and additional legislation may be proposed in the future which, if enacted, could have an adverse tax impact on both us and our shareholders. For example, the ability to defer taxes as a result of permanent investments offshore could be limited, thus raising our effective tax rate. We have made acquisitions in the past and may make acquisitions in the future, and these acquisitions involve numerous risks. Our growth depends upon market growth and our ability to enhance our existing products and introduce new products on a timely basis. Acquisitions of companies or intangible assets is a strategy we may use to develop new products and enter new markets. We may acquire additional companies or technologies in the future. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to, the following: • difficulty and increased costs in assimilating employees, including our possible inability to keep and retain key employees of the acquired business; • disruption of our ongoing business; • discovery of undisclosed liabilities of the acquired companies and legal disputes with founders or shareholders of acquired companies; • inability to commercialize acquired technology; and • the need to take impairment charges or write-downs with respect to acquired assets. No assurance can be given that our prior acquisitions or our future acquisitions, if any, will be successful or provide the anticipated benefits, or that they will not adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Failure to manage growth effectively and to successfully integrate acquisitions made by us could materially harm our business and operating results. For example, in January 2007, we completed the acquisition of sci-worx, now Silicon Image, GmbH. In 2009, because of our decision to focus on discrete semiconductor products and related intellectual property, we decided to restructure our research and development operations resulting in the closure of our two sites in Germany. - 20 - Industry cycles may strain our management and resources. Cycles of growth and contraction in our industry may strain our management and resources. To manage these industry cycles effectively, we must: • improve operational and financial systems; • train and manage our employee base; • successfully integrate operations and employees of businesses we acquire or have acquired; • attract, develop, motivate and retain qualified personnel with relevant experience; and • adjust spending levels according to prevailing market conditions. If we cannot manage industry cycles effectively, our business could be seriously harmed. The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry may create constrictions in our foundry, test and assembly capacity. The semiconductor industry is characterized by significant downturns and wide fluctuations in supply and demand. This cyclicality has led to significant fluctuations in product demand and in the foundry, test and assembly capacity of third-party suppliers. Production capacity for fabricated semiconductors is subject to allocation, whereby not all of our production requirements would be met. This may impact our ability to meet demand and could also increase our production costs and inventory levels. Cyclicality has also accelerated decreases in average selling prices per unit. We may experience fluctuations in our future financial results because of changes in industry-wide conditions. Our financial performance has been and may in the future be, negatively impacted by downturns in the semiconductor industry. In a downturn situation, we may incur substantial losses if there is excess production capacity or excess inventory levels in the distribution channel. We depend on third-party sub-contractors to manufacture, assemble and test nearly all of our products, which reduce our control over the production process. We do not own or operate a semiconductor fabrication facility. We rely on one third party semiconductor company overseas to produce substantially all of our semiconductor products. We also rely on outside assembly and test services to test all of our semiconductor products. Our reliance on independent foundries, assembly and test facilities involves a number of significant risks, including, but not limited to: • reduced control over delivery schedules, quality assurance, manufacturing yields and production costs; • lack of guaranteed production capacity or product supply, potentially resulting in higher inventory levels; and, • lack of availability of, or delayed access to, next-generation or key process technologies. - 21 - We do not have a long-term supply agreement with all of our subcontractors and instead obtain production services on a purchase order basis. Our outside sub-contractors have no obligation to manufacture our products or supply products to us for any specific period of time, in any specific quantity or at any specific price, except as set forth in a particular purchase order. Our requirements represent a small portion of the total production capacity of our outside foundries, assembly and test facilities and our sub-contractors may reallocate capacity on short notice to other customers who may be larger and better financed than we are, or who have long-term agreements with our sub-contractors, even during periods of high demand for our products. These foundries may allocate or move production of our products to different foundries under their control, even in different locations, which may be time consuming, costly and difficult, have an adverse affect on quality, yields and costs and require us and/or our customers to re-qualify the products, which could open up design wins to competition and result in the loss of design wins and design-ins. If our subcontractors are unable or unwilling to continue manufacturing our products in the required volumes, at acceptable quality, yields and costs and in a timely manner, our business will be substantially harmed. As a result, we would have to identify and qualify substitute sub-contractors, which would be time-consuming, costly and difficult; there is no guarantee that we would be able to identify and qualify such substitute sub-contractors on a timely basis or obtain commercially reasonable terms from them. This qualification process may also require significant effort by our customers and may lead to re-qualification of parts, opening up design wins to competition and loss of design wins and design-ins. Any of these circumstances could substantially harm our business. In addition, if competition for foundry, assembly and test capacity increases, our product costs may increase and we may be required to pay significant amounts or make significant purchase commitments to secure access to production services. The complex nature of our production process, which can reduce yields and prevent identification of problems until well into the production cycle or, in some cases, after the product has been shipped. The manufacture of semiconductors is a complex process and it is often difficult for semiconductor foundries to achieve acceptable product yields. Product yields depend on both our product design and the manufacturing process technology unique to the semiconductor foundry. Since low yields may result from either design or process difficulties, identifying problems can often only occur well into the production cycle, when an actual product exists that can be analyzed and tested. Further, we only test our products after they are assembled, as their high-speed nature makes earlier testing difficult and expensive. As a result, defects often are not discovered until after assembly. This could result in a substantial number of defective products being assembled and tested or shipped, thus lowering our yields and increasing our costs. These risks could result in product shortages or increased costs of assembling, testing or even replacing our products. Although we test our products before shipment, they are complex and may contain defects and errors. In the past we have encountered defects and errors in our products. Because our products are sometimes integrated with products from other vendors, it can be difficult to identify the source of any particular problem. Delivery of products with defects or reliability, quality or compatibility problems, may damage our reputation and our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers. In addition, product defects and errors could result in additional development costs, diversion of technical resources, delayed product shipments, increased product returns, warranty and product liability claims against us that may not be fully covered by insurance. Any of these circumstances could substantially harm our business. - 22 - We face foreign business, political and economic risks because a majority of our products and our customers’ products are manufactured and sold outside of the United States. A substantial portion of our business is conducted outside of the United States. As a result, we are subject to foreign business, political and economic risks. Nearly all of our products are manufactured in Taiwan or elsewhere in Asia. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, approximately 79.4%, 83.4% and 79.8% of our total revenue respectively, was generated from customers and distributors located outside of United States, primarily in Asia. We anticipate that sales outside of the United States will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenue in future periods. In addition, we undertake various sales and marketing activities through regional offices in several other countries and we have significantly expanded our research and development operations outside of the United States. We intend to continue to expand our international business activities. Accordingly, we are subject to international risks, including, but not limited to: • political, social and economic instability; • exposure to different business practices and legal standards, particularly with respect to intellectual property; • natural disasters and public health emergencies; • nationalization of business and blocking of cash flows; • trade and travel restrictions; • the imposition of governmental controls and restrictions; • burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws; • import and export license requirements and restrictions of the United States and each other country in which we operate; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • foreign technical standards; • changes in taxation and tariffs; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • difficulties in collecting receivables from foreign entities or delayed revenue recognition; • expense and difficulties in protecting our intellectual property in foreign jurisdictions; • exposure to possible litigation or claims in foreign jurisdictions; and, • potentially adverse tax consequences. Any of the factors described above may have a material adverse effect on our ability to increase or maintain our foreign sales. In addition, original equipment manufacturers that design our semiconductors into their products sell them outside of the United States. This exposes us indirectly to foreign risks. Because sales of our products are denominated exclusively in United States dollars, relative increases in the value of the United States dollar will increase the foreign currency price equivalent of our products, which could lead to a change in the competitive nature of these products in the marketplace. This in turn could lead to a reduction in sales and profits. - 23 - The success of our business depends upon our ability to adequately protect our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, mask work and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies. We have been issued patents and have a number of pending patent applications. However, we cannot assure you that any patents will be issued as a result of any applications or, if issued, that any claims allowed will protect our technology. In addition, we do not file patent applications on a worldwide basis, meaning we do not have patent protection in some jurisdictions. It may be possible for a third-party, including our licensees, to misappropriate our copyrighted material or trademarks. It is possible that existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented and effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in foreign countries. It may be possible for a third-party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology without authorization, develop similar technology independently or design around our patents in the United States and in other jurisdictions. It is also possible that some of our existing or new licensing relationships will enable other parties to use our intellectual property to compete against us. Legal actions to enforce intellectual property rights tend to be lengthy and expensive and the outcome often is not predictable. As a result, despite our efforts and expenses, we may be unable to prevent others from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property, which could harm our business. In addition, practicality also limits our assertion of intellectual property rights. Patent litigation is expensive and its results are often unpredictable. Assertion of intellectual property rights often results in counterclaims for perceived violations of the defendant’s intellectual property rights and/or antitrust claims. Certain parties after receipt of an assertion of infringement will cut off all commercial relationships with the party making the assertion, thus making assertions against suppliers, customers and key business partners risky. If we forgo making such claims, we may run the risk of creating legal and equitable defenses for an infringer. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and strategic partners. We also try to control access to and distribution of our technologies, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these efforts, internal or external parties may attempt to copy, disclose, obtain or use our products, services or technology without our authorization. Also, current or former employees may seek employment with our business partners, customers or competitors, and we cannot assure you that the confidential nature of our proprietary information will be maintained in the course of such future employment. Additionally, current, departing or former employees or third parties could attempt to penetrate our computer systems and networks to misappropriate our proprietary information and technology or interrupt our business. Because the techniques used by computer hackers and others to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate, counter or ameliorate these techniques. As a result, our technologies and processes may be misappropriated, particularly in countries where laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Our products may contain technology provided to us by other parties such as contractors, suppliers or customers. We may have little or no ability to determine in advance whether such technology infringes the intellectual property rights of a third party. Our contractors, suppliers and licensors may not be required to indemnify us in the event that a claim of infringement is asserted against us, or they may be required to indemnify us only up to a maximum amount, above which we would be responsible for any further costs or damages. In addition, we may have little or no ability to correct errors in the technology provided by such contractors, suppliers and licensors, or to continue to develop new generations of such technology. Accordingly, we may be dependent on their ability and willingness to do so. In the event of a problem with such technology, or in the event that our rights to use such technology become impaired, we may be unable to ship our products containing such technology, and may be unable to replace the technology with a suitable alternative within the time frame needed by our customers. - 24 - Our participation in working groups for the development and promotion of industry standards in our target markets, including the Digital Visual Interface and HDMI specifications, requires us to license some of our intellectual property for free or under specified terms and conditions, which may make it easier for others to compete with us in such markets. A key element of our business strategy includes participation in working groups to establish industry standards in our target markets, promote and enhance specifications and develop and market products based on such specifications and future enhancements. We are a promoter of the Digital Display Working Group (DDWG), which published and promotes the DVI specification and a founder in the working group that develops and promotes the HDMI specification. In connection with our participation in such working groups: • we must license for free specific elements of our intellectual property to others for use in implementing the DVI specification; and we may license additional intellectual property for free as the DDWG promotes enhancements to the DVI specification; and, • we must license specific elements of our intellectual property to others for use in implementing the HDMI specification and we may license additional intellectual property as the HDMI founders group promotes enhancements to the HDMI specification. Accordingly, certain companies that implement the DVI and HDMI specifications in their products can use specific elements of our intellectual property to compete with us, in certain cases for free. Although in the case of the HDMI specification, there are annual fees and royalties associated with the adopters’ agreements, there can be no assurance that such annual fees and royalties will adequately compensate us for having to license our intellectual property. Fees and royalties received during the early years of adoption of HDMI will be used to cover costs we incur to promote the HDMI standard and to develop and perform interoperability tests; in addition, after an initial period during which we received all of the royalties associated with HDMI adopters’ agreements, in 2007, the HDMI founders reallocated the royalties to reflect each founder’s relative contribution of intellectual property to the HDMI specification. Our subsidiary no longer recognizes 100% of the HDMI adopter royalty revenues. We intend to promote and continue to be involved and actively participate in other standard setting initiatives. For example, we also recently joined the Serial Port Memory Technology Working Group (SPMTWG) to develop and promote a new memory technology. Accordingly, we may license additional elements of our intellectual property to others for use in implementing, developing, promoting or adopting standards in our target markets, in certain circumstances at little or no cost. This may make it easier for others to compete with us in such markets. In addition, even if we receive license fees and/or royalties in connection with the licensing of our intellectual property, there can be no assurance that such license fees and/or royalties will adequately compensate us for having to license our intellectual property. Our success depends in part on our relationships with strategic partners and use of technologies We have entered into and expect to continue to enter into strategic partnerships with third parties. Negotiating and performing under these strategic partnerships involves significant time and expense; we may not realize anticipated increases in revenue, standards adoption or cost savings; and these strategic partnerships may make it easier for the third parties to compete with us; any of which may have a negative effect our business and results of operations. Strategic partnerships that we enter into with third parties may not result in the anticipated results. For example, in February 2007, we entered into a licensing agreement with Sunplus Technology Co., Ltd. (Sunplus), which granted us the rights to use and further develop advanced IP technology. Previously, we believed that the IP licensed under this agreement enhanced our ability to develop DTV technology and other related consumer product offerings. Based on the Company’s product strategy as of October 2009, we realized the IP obtained through the Sunplus agreement did not align with our product roadmap and during October 2009, we decided to write off our investment in Sunplus IP. This decision was prompted by a change in our product strategy due to market place and related competitive dynamics. Please also refer to Note 12 in our consolidated financial statements. Our business may be impacted as a result of the adoption of competing standards and technologies by the broader market The success of our business has been significantly related to our participation in standard setting organizations. Specifically, HDMI related revenues amounted to more than 75% of our total revenues for 2009. From time to time, competing standards have been established which negatively impact the success of existing standards or jeopardize the creation of a new standard. DisplayPort is an example of a competing standard on a different technology base which has created an alternative high definition connectivity methodology in the PC space. This standard has been adopted by several large PC manufactures. While currently not as widely recognized as the HDMI standard, DisplayPort does represent a viable alternative to the HDMI standard. If DisplayPort should gain broader adoption, our HDMI business could be negatively impacted and our revenues could be reduced. - 25 - Our business is dependent on the continued adoption and widespread implementation of the HDMI specification. Our success is largely dependent upon the continued adoption and widespread implementation of the HDMI specification. More than 75% of our revenue is derived from the sale of HDMI enabled products and the licensing of our HDMI technology. Our leadership in the market for HDMI-enabled products and intellectual property has been based on our ability to introduce first-to-market semiconductor and IP solutions to our customers and to continue to innovate within the standard. Therefore, our inability to be first to market with our HDMI enabled products and intellectual property or to continue to drive innovation in the HDMI specification could have an adverse impact on our business going forward. In addition, the establishment and adoption by the markets we sell into of a competing digital interconnect technology could have an adverse impact on our ability to sell our products and license our intellectual property and therefore our revenues and business. We also derive revenue from the license fees and royalties paid by the adopters of the HDMI technology. Any development that has the effect of lowering the number of adopters of the HDMI standard will negatively impact these license fees and royalties. Also, when the HDMI consortium was first formed, we received 100% of the royalties collected from HDMI adopters. During 2007, at a founders meeting, the founders decided to share the HDMI adopter’s royalty revenues among the various founders, such that we no longer receive all of the royalties. The allocation of license fees and royalty revenue among the HDMI founders is an issue that is reviewed and discussed by the founders from time to time. There can be no assurance that going forward we will continue to receive the share of HDMI license fees and royalties that we currently receive. If our share of these license fees and royalties is reduced, this decision will have a negative impact on our revenues. Our success depends on managing our relationship with Intel. Intel has a dominant role in many of the markets in which we compete, such as PC and storage and is a growing presence in the CE market. We have a multi-faceted relationship with Intel that is complex and requires significant management attention, including: • Intel and Silicon Image have been parties to business cooperation agreements; • Intel and Silicon Image are parties to a patent cross-license; • Intel and Silicon Image worked together to develop HDCP; • an Intel subsidiary has the exclusive right to license HDCP, of which we are a licensee; • Intel and Silicon Image were two of the promoters of the DDWG; • Intel is a promoter of the SATA working group, of which we are a contributor; • Intel is a supplier to us and a customer for our products; • we believe that Intel has the market presence to drive adoption of SATA by making it widely available in its chipsets and motherboards, which could affect demand for our products; • we believe that Intel has the market presence to affect adoption of HDMI by either endorsing complementary technology or promulgating a competing standard, which could affect demand for our products; • Intel may potentially integrate the functionality of our products, including SATA, DVI, or HDMI into its own chips and chipsets, thereby displacing demand for some of our products; • Intel may design new technologies that would require us to re-design our products for compatibility, thus increasing our R&D expense and reducing our revenue; • Intel’s technology, including its 845G and later chipsets, may lower barriers to entry for other parties who may enter the market and compete with us; and, • Intel may enter into or continue relationships with our competitors that can put us at a relative disadvantage. Our cooperation and competition with Intel can lead to positive benefits, if managed effectively. If our relationship with Intel is not managed effectively, it could seriously harm our business, negatively affect our revenue and increase our operating expenses. New Releases of Microsoft Windows® and Apple Mac OS® operating systems may render our chips inoperable ICs targeted to PC, laptop, or netbook designs (whether running Microsoft Windows ®, Apple Mac OS® or Linux operating systems) often require device driver software to operate. This software is difficult to produce and requires various certifications such as Microsoft’s Windows Hardware Quality Labs (WHQL) before being released. Each new revision of an operating system may require a new software driver and associated testing/certification. Failure to produce this software can have a negative impact on our relation with Microsoft and/or Apple and may damage our reputation as a quality supplier of SATA and HDMI products in the eyes of end consumers. - 26 - We have granted Intel rights with respect to our intellectual property, which could allow Intel to develop products that compete with ours or otherwise reduce the value of our intellectual property. We entered into a patent cross-license agreement with Intel in which each of us granted the other a license to use the patents filed by the grantor prior to a specified date, except for identified types of products. We believe that the scope of our license to Intel excludes our current products and anticipated future products. Intel could, however, exercise its rights under this agreement to use our patents to develop and market other products that compete with ours, without payment to us. Additionally, Intel’s rights to our patents could reduce the value of our patents to any third-party who otherwise might be interested in acquiring rights to use our patents in such products. Finally, Intel could endorse competing products, including a competing digital interface, or develop its own proprietary digital interface. Any of these actions could substantially harm our business and results of operations. We may become engaged in additional intellectual property litigation that could be time-consuming, may be expensive to prosecute or defend and could adversely affect our ability to sell our product. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States and in other jurisdictions involving patents and other intellectual property rights. This litigation is particularly prevalent in the semiconductor industry, in which a number of companies aggressively use their patent portfolios to bring infringement claims. In addition, in recent years, there has been an increase in the filing of so-called “nuisance suits,” alleging infringement of intellectual property rights. These claims may be asserted as counterclaims in response to claims made by a company alleging infringement of intellectual property rights. These suits pressure defendants into entering settlement arrangements to quickly dispose of such suits, regardless of merit. In addition, as is common in the semiconductor industry, from time to time we have been notified that we may be infringing certain patents or other intellectual property rights of others. Responding to such claims, regardless of their merit, can be time consuming, result in costly litigation, divert management’s attention and resources and cause us to incur significant expenses. As each claim is evaluated, we may consider the desirability of entering into settlement or licensing agreements. No assurance can be given that settlements will occur or that licenses can be obtained on acceptable terms or that litigation will not occur. In the event there is a temporary or permanent injunction entered prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain of our products, or a successful claim of infringement against us requiring us to pay damages or royalties to a third-party and we fail to develop or license a substitute technology, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Any potential intellectual property litigation against us or in which we become involved may be expensive and time-consuming and may divert our resources and the attention of our executives. It could also force us to do one or more of the following: • stop selling products or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property; • attempt to obtain a license to the relevant intellectual property, which license may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; and, • attempt to redesign products that contain the allegedly infringing intellectual property. If we take any of these actions, we may be unable to manufacture and sell our products. We may be exposed to liability for monetary damages, the extent of which would be very difficult to accurately predict. In addition, we may be exposed to customer claims, for potential indemnity obligations and to customer dissatisfaction and a discontinuance of purchases of our products while the litigation is pending. Any of these consequences could substantially harm our business and results of operations. - 27 - We have entered into and may again be required to enter into, patent or other intellectual property cross-licenses. Many companies have significant patent portfolios or key specific patents, or other intellectual property in areas in which we compete. Many of these companies appear to have policies of imposing cross-licenses on other participants in their markets, which may include areas in which we compete. As a result, we have been required, either under pressure of litigation or by significant vendors or customers, to enter into cross licenses or non-assertion agreements relating to patents or other intellectual property. This permits the cross-licensee, or beneficiary of a non-assertion agreement, to use certain or all of our patents and/or certain other intellectual property for free to compete with us. We indemnify certain of our licensing customers against infringement. We indemnify certain of our licensing agreements customers for any expenses or liabilities resulting from third-party claims of infringements of patent, trademark, trade secret, or copyright rights by the technology we license. Certain of these indemnification provisions are perpetual from execution of the agreement and, in some instances; the maximum amount of potential future indemnification is not limited. To date, we have not paid any such claims or been required to defend any lawsuits with respect to any claim. In the event that we were required to defend any lawsuits with respect to our indemnification obligations, or to pay any claim, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We must attract and retain qualified personnel to be successful and competition for qualified personnel is increasing in our market. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued contributions of our key management, technical and sales personnel, many of who would be difficult to replace. The loss of one or more of these employees could harm our business. Although we have entered into a limited number of employment contracts with certain executive officers, we generally do not have employment contracts with our key employees. Our success also depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain qualified technical, sales, marketing, finance and managerial personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is particularly intense in our industry and in our location. This makes it difficult to retain our key personnel and to recruit highly qualified personnel. We have experienced and may continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining candidates with appropriate qualifications. To be successful, we need to hire candidates with appropriate qualifications and retain our key executives and employees. Replacing departing executive officers and key employees can involve organizational disruption and uncertain timing. The volatility of our stock price has had an impact on our ability to offer competitive equity-based incentives to current and prospective employees, thereby affecting our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical personnel. If these adverse conditions continue, we may not be able to hire or retain highly qualified employees in the future and this could harm our business. In addition, regulations adopted by The NASDAQ Stock Market requiring shareholder approval for all stock option plans, as well as regulations adopted by the New York Stock Exchange prohibiting NYSE member organizations from giving a proxy to vote on equity compensation plans unless the beneficial owner of the shares has given voting instructions, could make it more difficult for us to grant options to employees in the future. In addition, FASB ASC No. 718-10, Stock Compensation, requires us to record compensation expense for options granted to employees. To the extent that new regulations make it more difficult or expensive to grant options to employees, we may incur increased cash compensation costs or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, either of which could harm our business. - 28 - If our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures are not effective, there may be errors in our financial statements that could require restatement or our filings may not be timely and investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. While we have not identified any material weaknesses in the past three years, we cannot assure you that a material weakness will not be identified in the future. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each year and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in each Annual Report on Form 10-K. Section 404 also requires our independent registered public accounting firm to report on, our internal control over financial reporting. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Accounting Officer, does not expect that our internal control over financial reporting will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. Over time, controls may become inadequate because changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may occur. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. As a result, we cannot assure you that significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, cause us to fail to timely meet our periodic reporting obligations, or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding disclosure controls and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules promulgated thereunder. The existence of a material weakness could result in errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements, cause us to fail to timely meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price. - 29 - We have experienced transitions in our management team, our board of directors in the past and may continue to do so in the future, which could result in disruptions in our operations and require additional costs. We have experienced a number of transitions with respect to our board of directors and executive officers in recent quarters, including the following: • In January 2007, Edward Lopez was appointed as our chief legal officer. • In February 2007, David Hodges advised our board of directors of his decision to retire and he did not stand for reelection to our board of directors when his term expired at our 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. • In April 2007, Rob Valiton resigned from his position as vice president of worldwide sales and Sal Cobar was appointed as his successor. • In July 2007, Paul Dal Santo was appointed as chief operating officer. • In October 2007, Robert Freeman resigned from his position as chief financial officer. • In October 2007, Harold L. Covert was appointed as chief financial officer. • In December 2008, Dale Zimmerman resigned from his position as vice president of worldwide marketing. • In March 2009, Paul Dal Santo resigned from his position as chief operating officer. • In September 2009, Steve Tirado resigned from his positions as chief executive officer and director and Hal Covert was appointed as president and chief operating officer. • In January 2010, Camillo Martino was appointed as chief executive officer and director. • In January 2010, Harold Covert, who was appointed president and chief operating officer on September 25, 2009 while we undertook a search for a new chief executive officer, agreed to continue in his capacity as our president (but to no longer serve as chief financial officer or chief operating officer) during a transitional period from January 6, 2010 through September 30, 2010. On January 5, 2010, our Board of Directors also elected Mr. Covert to the Board, effective January 15, 2010 and through September 30, 2010. Any future transitions may result in disruptions in our operations and require additional costs. We have been and may continue to become the target of securities class action suits and derivative suits which could result in substantial costs and divert management attention and resources. Securities class action suits and derivative suits are often brought against companies, particularly technology companies, following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. Defending against these suits, even if meritless, can result in substantial costs to us and could divert the attention of our management. - 30 - Our operations and the operations of our significant customers, third-party wafer foundries and third-party assembly and test subcontractors are located in are as susceptible to natural disasters. Our operations are headquartered in the San Francisco Bay Area, which is susceptible to earthquakes. TSMC, the outside foundry that produces the majority of our semiconductor products, is located in Taiwan. Siliconware Precision Industries Co. Ltd., or SPIL, Advanced Semiconductor Engineering, or ASE, and Amkor Taiwan are subcontractors located in Taiwan that assemble and test our semiconductor products. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 customers and distributors located in Japan generated 27.1%, 24.0% and 35.3%,of our revenue, respectively, and customers and distributors located in Taiwan generated 25.2%, 19.8% and 16.7% of our revenue, respectively. Both Taiwan and Japan are susceptible to earthquakes, typhoons and other natural disasters. Our business, including a potential reduction of revenues, would be negatively affected if any of the following occurred: • an earthquake or other disaster in the San Francisco Bay Area or the Los Angeles area damaged our facilities or disrupted the supply of water or electricity to our headquarters or our Irvine facility; • an earthquake, typhoon or other disaster in Taiwan or Japan resulted in shortages of water, electricity or transportation, limiting the production capacity of our outside foundries or the ability of ASE to provide assembly and test services; • an earthquake, typhoon or other disaster in Taiwan or Japan damaged the facilities or equipment of our customers and distributors, resulting in reduced purchases of our products; or • an earthquake, typhoon or other disaster in Taiwan or Japan disrupted the operations of suppliers to our Taiwanese or Japanese customers, outside foundries or ASE, which in turn disrupted the operations of these customers, foundries or ASE and resulted in reduced purchases of our products or shortages in our product supply. Terrorist attacks or war could lead to economic instability and adversely affect our operations, results of operations and stock price. The United States has taken and continues to take, military action against terrorism and currently has troops in Iraq and in Afghanistan. In addition, the current tensions regarding nuclear arms in North Korea and Iran could escalate into armed hostilities or war. Acts of terrorism or armed hostilities may disrupt or result in instability in the general economy and financial markets and in consumer demand for the OEM’s products that incorporate our products. Disruptions and instability in the general economy could reduce demand for our products or disrupt the operations of our customers, suppliers, distributors and contractors, many of whom are located in Asia, which would in turn adversely affect our operations and results of operations. Disruptions and instability in financial markets could adversely affect our stock price. Armed hostilities or war in South Korea could disrupt the operations of the research and development contractors we utilize there, which would adversely affect our research and development capabilities and ability to timely develop and introduce new products and product improvements. Changes in environmental rules and regulations could increase our costs and reduce our revenue. Several jurisdictions have implemented rules that would require that certain products, including semiconductors, be made “green,” which means that the products need to be lead free and be free of certain banned substances. All of our products are available to customers in a green format. While we believe that we are generally in compliance with existing regulations, such environmental regulations are subject to change and the jurisdictions may impose additional regulations which could require us to incur costs to develop replacement products. These changes will require us to incur cost or may take time or may not always be economically or technically feasible, or may require disposal of non-compliant inventory. In addition, any requirement to dispose or abate previously sold products would require us to incur the costs of setting up and implementing such a program. - 31 - Provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control and may reduce the market price of our common stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable. These provisions include: • authorizing the issuance of preferred stock without stockholder approval; • providing for a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms; • requiring advance notice of stockholder nominations for the board of directors; • providing the board of directors the opportunity to expand the number of directors without notice to stockholders; • prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; • requiring super-majority voting to amend some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws; • limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; and, • prohibiting stockholder actions by written consent. Provisions of Delaware law also may discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us. The price of our stock fluctuates substantially and may continue to do so. The stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market valuation of many technology companies, including Silicon Image. These factors, as well as general economic and political conditions, may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock in the future. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly and may continue to fluctuate in response to a number of factors, including, but not limited to: • actual or anticipated changes in our operating results; • changes in expectations of our future financial performance; • changes in market valuations of comparable companies in our markets; • changes in market valuations or expectations of future financial performance of our vendors or customers; • changes in our key executives and technical personnel; and, • announcements by us or our competitors of significant technical innovations, design wins, contracts, standards or acquisitions. Due to these factors, the price of our stock may decline. In addition, the stock market experiences volatility that is often unrelated to the performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may cause our stock price to decline regardless of our performance. - 32 - Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 