Item 1A. RISK FACTORS ANY INVESTMENT IN OUR COMMON STOCK INVOLVES A HIGH DEGREE OR RISK. YOU SHOULD CAREFULLY CONSIDER THE FOLLOWING RISK FACTORS IN ADDITION TO THE OTHER INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS REPORT. If we are unable to acquire and develop additional ASCs on favorable terms, we may be unable to execute our acquisition and development strategy, which could limit our future growth. Part of our strategy to increase our revenues and earnings is through the continuing acquisition of interests in ASCs in the future. Our efforts to execute our acquisition and development strategy may be affected by our ability to identify suitable candidates and negotiate and close acquisition and development transactions. We are currently evaluating potential acquisitions and development projects and expect to continue to evaluate acquisitions and development projects in the foreseeable future. The ASCs we acquire may experience losses in their early months of operation. We may not be successful in acquiring other companies or additional ASCs, developing ASCs or achieving satisfactory operating results at acquired or newly developed facilities. Further, the companies or assets we acquire in the future may not ultimately produce returns that justify our related investment. If we are not able to execute our acquisition and development strategy, our ability to increase revenues and earnings through future growth would be impaired. We have incurred significant losses and anticipate losses in the future, and as a result, there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have sustained operating losses since inception and had an accumulated deficit of approximately $66.5 million as of January 31, 2007 which has been funded primarily through sales of equity and cash generated from the disposal of our interest in Vsource Asia. We disposed of our business operations during the year and no longer had any active business operations until the recent acquisition of outpatient surgical centers. Our new management, backed by the capital raised in the Financing, intends to pursue a growth strategy defined by acquisitions. We anticipate that our operating expenses will increase substantially in the foreseeable future as we increase our acquisition activities, and continue to develop our technology, products, and services. We will need to generate significant revenues to achieve 6 Table of Contents profitability, and we cannot assure you that we will ever realize revenues at such levels. If we do achieve profitability in any period, we may not be able to sustain or increase our profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our management believes that we have adequate funding from cash and cash equivalents, and the Series 5-A Preferred Stock subscriptions received during March, April and May of 2007, for us to continue in operation for at least 12 months from the balance sheet date. Therefore, we have prepared our financial statements on a going concern basis. If we incur material liabilities as a result of acquiring companies or ambulatory surgical centers, our operating results could be adversely affected. Although we conduct extensive due diligence prior to the acquisition of companies and ASCs and seek indemnification from prospective sellers covering unknown or contingent liabilities, we may acquire companies or ASCs that have material liabilities for failure to comply with healthcare laws and regulations or other past activities. Although we maintain professional and general liability insurance, we do not currently maintain insurance specifically covering any unknown or contingent liabilities that may have occurred prior to the acquisition of companies or ASCs. If we incur these liabilities and are not indemnified or insured for them, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. If we are unable to manage growth, we may be unable to achieve our growth strategy. We expect to continue to expand our operations in the future. To accommodate our past and anticipated future growth, and to compete effectively, we will need to continue to implement and improve our management, operational and financial information systems and to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce. Our personnel, systems, procedures or controls may not be adequate to support our operations in the future. Further, focusing our financial resources and management attention on the expansion of our operations may negatively impact our financial results. Any failure to implement and improve our management, operational and financial information systems, or to expand, train, manage or motivate our workforce, could reduce or prevent our growth. If we are unable to grow revenues at our existing surgical facilities, our operating margins and profitability could be adversely affected. Our growth strategy includes increasing our revenues and earnings by increasing the number of procedures at our surgery centers. Because we expect the amount of the payments we receive from third-party payors to remain fairly consistent, our operating margins will be adversely affected if we do not increase the revenues and procedure volume of our surgical facilities to offset increases in our operating costs. We seek to increase procedure volume and revenues at our surgical facilities by increasing the number of physicians performing procedures at our centers, obtaining new or more favorable managed care contracts, improving patient flow at our centers, promoting screening programs, increasing patient and physician awareness of our centers and achieving operating efficiencies. We can give you no assurances that we will be successful at increasing or maintaining revenues and operating margins at our centers. We are dependent for our success on a few key executive officers. Were we to lose one or more of these key executive officers, we would be forced to expend significant time and money in the pursuit of a replacement, which would result in both a delay in the implementation of our business plan and the diversion of working capital. Our success depends to a critical extent on the continued efforts of services of our Co-Chief Executive Officers, Mr. David Hirschhorn and Mr. Todd Parker and consultant and director, Mr. Dennis Smith. Were we to lose one or more of these key executive officers or Mr. Smith, we would be forced to expend significant time and money in the pursuit of a replacement, which would result in both a delay in the implementation of our business plan and the diversion of limited working capital. We can give you no assurance that we can find satisfactory replacements for these key executive officers at all, or on terms that are not unduly expensive or burdensome to our company. Although Mr. Hirschhorn and Mr. Parker have signed employment agreements providing for their continued service through July 18, 2008, these agreements will not preclude either of these employees from leaving the Company. We depend on our relationships with the physicians who use our facilities. Our ability to provide medical services at our facilities would be impaired and our revenues reduced if we are not able to maintain these relationships. Our business depends upon the efforts and success of the physicians who provide medical and surgical services at our facilities and the strength of our relationships with these physicians. Our revenues would be reduced if we lost our relationship with one or more key physicians or group of physicians or such physicians or groups reduce their use of our facilities. In addition, any failure of these physicians to maintain the quality of medical care provided or to otherwise adhere to professional guidelines at our surgical facilities or any damage to the reputation of a key physician or group of physicians could damage our reputation, subject us to liability and significantly reduce our revenues. We depend on payments from third party payors, including government healthcare programs. If these payments are reduced, our revenue will decrease. 7 Table of Contents We are dependent upon private and governmental third party sources of payment for the services provided to patients in our ASCs. The amount of payment a surgical facility receives for its services may be adversely affected by market and cost factors as well as other factors over which we have no control, including Medicare and Medicaid regulations and the cost containment and utilization decisions of third party payors. Fixed fee schedules, capitation payment arrangements, exclusion from participation in or inability to reach agreement with managed care programs or other factors affecting payments for healthcare services over which we have no control could also cause a reduction in our revenues. If we fail to comply with other applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. We are subject to many laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels in the jurisdictions in which we operate. These laws and regulations require that our healthcare facilities meet various licensing, certification and other requirements, including those relating to: o physician ownership of our domestic facilities; o the adequacy of medical care, equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures; o building codes; o licensure, certification and accreditation; o billing for services; o maintenance and protection of records; and o environmental protection. We believe that we are in material compliance with applicable laws and regulations. However, if we fail or have failed to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties, including the loss of our licenses to operate and our ability to participate in Medicare, Medicaid and other government sponsored healthcare programs. New interpretations or enforcement of existing or new laws and regulations could subject our current practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality, or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. Current or future legislative initiatives or government regulation may have a material adverse effect on our operations or reduce the demand for our services. In pursuing our growth strategy, we may expand our presence into new geographic markets. In entering a new geographic market, we will be required to comply with laws and regulations of jurisdictions that may differ from those applicable to our current operations. If we are unable to comply with these legal requirements in a cost-effective manner, we may be unable to enter new geographic markets. Appropriate acquisitions or investment opportunities may not be available. As noted above, we may use a portion of our cash resources to pursue acquisition opportunities. If we decide to seek such opportunities, our future results will be dependent on our ability to identify, attract and complete desirable acquisition opportunities, which may take considerable time. In addition, our cash position, $0.634 million at April 30, 2007, may limit the scale and therefore the number of opportunities available. Our future results will be dependent on the performance of the acquired businesses, if any. We may not be successful in identifying, attracting or acquiring desirable acquisition candidates, or in realizing profits from any acquisitions. Our strategy is to achieve growth in shareholder value through the acquisition of controlling interests in small- to medium-sized “platform” companies across discreet industries in the business, healthcare and energy services sectors, in addition to the acquisition of ASCs as described in this annual report. We expect to pursue additional funding opportunities to finance this strategy. We will have sole and absolute discretion in identifying and selecting acquisition and investment opportunities and in structuring, negotiating and undertaking transactions with our target companies. We may acquire, invest or be sold (in whole or in part) at any time, as our Board of Directors and management determine is appropriate. Our stockholders generally will not be able to evaluate the merits of the acquisition, investment or sale (partial or otherwise) before we take any of these actions. In addition, in making decisions to complete acquisitions, investments or a sale, we will rely, in part, on financial projections developed by our management and financial advisors and the management of potential target companies. These projections will be based on assumptions and subjective judgments. The actual results of these transactions may differ significantly from these projections. We continue to have significant corporate and SEC-related expenses and limited revenue to offset these expenses. Although we have taken measures to reduce and control expenses, including maintaining the number of employees at two, monthly overheads, including salaries, office rent and other administrative expenses are significant when viewed as a portion of our existing cash resources. In addition, the costs associated with filings and compliance as a SEC registrant, including legal and accounting fees, represent a material cost to us. 8 Table of Contents We have broad discretion in using our cash resources and may not use them in a manner that our stockholders would prefer. We have broad discretion in how we use our limited cash resources. In general, our stockholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial or other information on which we base our decisions on how to use our cash resources. The failure of our Board of Directors and management to apply the funds effectively could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We may finance acquisitions by issuing additional capital stock or incurring substantial debt, both of which could have negative consequences. As noted, we may use a portion of our resources to pursue acquisition opportunities and the timing, size and success of our acquisition efforts and any associated capital commitments cannot be readily predicted. We may raise additional funds to complete such acquisitions. Generally, our Board of Directors has the power to issue new equity (to the extent of authorized shares) without stockholder approval. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of our then current stockholders would be diluted, our earnings and book value per share could be diluted and, if such equity securities take the form of preferred stock, the holders of such preferred stock may have the rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of holders of common stock. If we are able to raise additional funds through the incurrence of debt, and we do so, we would likely become subject to restrictive financial covenants and other risks associated with the incurrence of debt. Need for ongoing financing. We will need additional capital to continue to expand our operations and will endeavor to raise funds through the sale of equity shares and revenues from operations. There can be no assurance that we will generate revenues from operations or obtain sufficient capital on acceptable terms, if at all. Failure to obtain such capital or generate such operating revenues would have an adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations and ability to continue as a going concern. Our operating and capital requirements during the next fiscal year and thereafter will vary based on a number of factors, including the level of sales and marketing activities for our services and products. There can be no assurance that additional private or public finances, including debt or equity financing, will be available as needed, or, if available, on terms favorable to us. Any additional equity financing may be dilutive to stockholders and such additional equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges that are senior to those of our existing common stock. Furthermore, debt financing, if available, will require payment of interest and may involve restrictive covenants that could impose limitations on our operating flexibility. Our failure to successfully obtain additional future funding may jeopardize our ability to continue our business and operations. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, existing stockholders may experience a dilution in their ownership. In addition, as a condition to giving additional funds to us, future investors may demand, and may be granted, rights superior to those of existing stockholders. Substantial costs of any securities litigation could divert our limited resources. We could become a target of securities litigation based upon the volatility of our stock in the marketplace. Litigation of this type could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. Over the past five years, our stock has declined steeply from as high as $1,700 per share to as low as $0.10 per share (in each case as adjusted to reflect our 20-to-1 reverse stock split, which was effected on November 20, 2002), and as of May 11, 2007 the closing price of our common stock was $0.275 per share. Public companies suffering this much stock price volatility are often sued by their stockholders. Additionally, we are obligated to indemnify our directors and officers as required by our bylaws under certain circumstances. Accordingly, we may be required to pay any judgments and legal costs to defend our directors and officers, in addition to the Company, in these actions, to the extent that such costs are not covered by insurance. The market for our common stock may be illiquid. The 90-day average daily trading volume of our registered common stock on the OTC Bulletin Board as of May 11, 2007, was approximately 1,600 shares and we have had some days with no trading. There can be no assurance that trading volumes will increase to a consistently higher level or that holders of the shares will be able to sell their shares in a timely manner or at all. Our stock is not listed on a major stock market Our common stock is currently quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board and we do not meet the listing requirements for the Nasdaq Global Market or any other major stock market in the United States. The listing of our stock may have an effect on the perception of our company among potential investors or acquirers and may adversely affect the liquidity of our shares and therefore can have an effect on our ability to complete such transactions or raise additional funds. have an effect on our ability to complete such transactions or raise additional funds. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 9 Table of Contents None. 