Item 1A. Risk Factors We have experienced operating losses in the past. We commenced operations in 1991 and posted net losses in every year prior to 2003 other than 1999. Our ability to remain profitable depends on, among other factors: • Continued market acceptance for laser vision correction services • Our ability to execute our planned business strategy • Our ability to manage equipment and operating costs Our quarterly and annual operating results are subject to significant fluctuations. Our revenue and operating results have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year depending on many factors, including but not limited to: • Market acceptance of laser vision correction services • The number of laser vision correction procedures performed • The timing of new advancements by our suppliers and the purchase of such advancements or upgrades of equipment by us or our competitors • The impact of competitors, including those who compete by deeply discounting the price of laser vision correction services, in the geographic areas in which we operate • Declining economic conditions in the geographic areas in which we operate, which can result in decreased demand for our laser vision correction services • The opening, closing or expansion of vision centers • Regulatory matters • Litigation • Acquisitions and other transactions. In addition, our revenue and operating results are subject to seasonal factors. In terms of number of procedures performed, our strongest quarter historically has been the first quarter of the year, and our business is generally weaker in the latter half of the year. We believe these fluctuations are due to several factors, including: • The availability to potential patients of funds under typical corporate medical flexible spending plans • Time constraints imposed by the holiday season and a desire by some individuals not to schedule procedures at that time of year Reductions in revenues or net income between quarters or our failure to achieve expected quarterly earnings per share could result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. Changes in general economic conditions may cause fluctuations in our revenues and profitability. The cost of laser vision correction procedures is typically not reimbursed by third-party payors such as health care insurance companies or government programs. Accordingly, as we have experienced in prior fiscal periods, our operating results may vary based upon the impact of changes in the disposable income of consumers interested in laser vision correction, among other economic factors. A significant decrease in consumer disposable income in a weakening economy may result in a decrease in the number of laser vision procedures performed and a decline in our revenues and profitability. In addition, weak economic conditions may cause some of our customers to experience financial distress or declare bankruptcy, which may negatively impact our accounts receivable collection experience. Weak economic conditions may also change the risk profile or volume of business our unaffiliated finance business partner is willing to underwrite, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. We derive substantially all of our revenue from laser vision correction services and a decrease in the provision of these services could result in a significant decrease in our revenues and profitability. We derive substantially all of our revenues from laser vision correction services. If we are not able to provide those services or the number of laser vision correction procedures we perform significantly decreases, our revenues and profitability would decrease materially. We do not have other diversified revenue sources to offset a significant decrease in revenues from our provision of laser vision correction services. 10 Table of Contents If we are unable to attract and retain qualified independent ophthalmologists, our ability to open new vision centers, to maintain operations at existing vision centers, or to attract patients could be negatively affected. Our revenues are generated by independent ophthalmologists who work with us to perform surgeries. In certain states where the corporate practice of medicine is prohibited, we may contract with professional corporations for ophthalmologists to perform surgeries at our vision centers. The hiring of independent qualified ophthalmologists is a critical factor in our ability to successfully launch a new vision center, and the retention of those ophthalmologists is a critical factor in the success of our existing vision centers. However, it is sometimes difficult for us to hire or retain qualified ophthalmologists. If we are unable to consistently attract, hire and retain qualified ophthalmologists, our ability to open new vision centers, to maintain operations at existing vision centers, or to attract patients could be negatively affected. If technological changes occur which render our equipment or services obsolete, or increase our cost structure, we may need to make significant capital expenditures or modify our business model, which could cause our revenues or profitability to decline. As a result of industry, competitive or clinical factors, among others, we may be required to introduce alternate ophthalmic laser technology or other surgical or non-surgical methods for correcting refractive vision disorders than those that we currently use in our laser vision correction centers. Such alternative technologies could include IntraLase, a technology in which a laser is used to cut a corneal flap instead of a microkeratome, various intraocular lens technologies, or an increased penetration in the percent of custom wavefront treatments we perform, among others. Introducing such technology or such changes could require significant capital investment or force us to modify our business model in such a way as to make our revenues or profits decline. Such changes could include higher costs to us or higher prices for our patients. An increase in costs could reduce our ability to maintain our profit margin. An increase in prices could adversely affect our ability to attract new patients. If a better-financed or lower-cost provider of laser vision correction or a competing vision treatment forces us to lower our laser surgery prices in a particular geographic area, our revenues and profitability could decline. Laser eye surgery competes with other surgical and non-surgical treatments for refractive vision disorders, including eyeglasses, contact lenses, other types of refractive surgery, corneal implants and other technologies currently under development. Among providers of laser vision correction, competition comes from firms similar to us and from hospitals, hospital-affiliated group entities, physician group practices and private ophthalmologists, among others, that, in order to offer laser vision correction to patients, purchase or rent excimer lasers. Suppliers of conventional eyeglasses and contact lenses, such as optometry chains, also may compete with us by purchasing laser systems and offering laser vision correction to their customers. Some of our current competitors or companies that may choose to enter the industry in the future, including laser manufacturers themselves, may have substantially greater financial, technical, managerial, marketing or other resources and experience than we do and compete more effectively. Competition in the market for laser vision correction could increase as excimer laser surgery becomes more common and the number of ophthalmologists performing the procedure increases. In 2005, TLC Vision Corporation launched a new business model they intend to expand that will focus on the value segment of the industry. Additional competition may develop, particularly as the price to purchase or rent excimer laser systems decreases. Our management, operations, strategy and marketing plans may not be successful in meeting this competition. If more competitors offer laser vision correction or other competitive types of vision treatments in a given geographic market, we might find it necessary to reduce the prices we charge, particularly if competitors offer the procedures at lower prices than we do. If that were to happen or we were not successful in cost effectively acquiring new patients for our procedures, we may not be able to make up for the reduced profit margin by increasing the number of procedures we perform, and our revenues and profitability could decrease, as we have experienced in prior fiscal periods. Our business has been adversely affected in the past by deeply-discounted pricing by some competitors, and it is possible that such competitive practices may adversely affect our business in the future. In the past, certain competitors have utilized deeply-discounted pricing in an effort to generate procedure volume. This practice has caused periods of intense price competition in our industry. As a result, we have lowered our prices in the past in order to remain competitive. We currently face competitors offering discounted prices, including several large chains of laser vision correction centers, in some geographic markets where we conduct business. It is possible that, in the future, our revenues and profitability could decrease as a result of the discounting practices of competitors. 11 Table of Contents We have expanded the role and mix of financing as a percentage of our revenues. As a result, our direct financing program has grown, increasing our credit risk. At the same time, our exclusive reliance on an unaffiliated finance company for third-party financing has grown. A significant percentage of our patients finance some or all of the cost of their procedure. We provide certain of our patients, including patients who could not otherwise obtain third-party financing, with the ability to pay for our procedures with direct financing. The terms of our direct financing typically require the customer to pay a set fee up front, with the remaining balance paid by the customer in up to 36 monthly installments. As of December 31, 2005, we had $14,797,000 million in accounts receivable, compared to $12,432,000 million as of December 31, 2004. We are now exposed to significantly increased credit risk, particularly given that patients who participate in our direct financing program generally have not been deemed creditworthy by third-party financing companies with more experience in credit issues than we have. If the uncollectible amounts exceed the amounts we have reserved, we could be required to write down our accounts receivable, and our cash flow and results of operations would be adversely affected. We currently rely exclusively on one unaffiliated finance company for third-party financing made available to our patients. As the percentage of our patients who choose to obtain financing from such unaffiliated finance company grows, so too does our reliance on the finance company. There can be no assurance that financing services will be available in such structure or at such interest rates or costs as we or our patients may require. Any shortage in this area could limit our ability to maintain or increase the volume of procedures that we perform, which could result in a decrease in our revenues and profitability. If laser vision correction does not gain broader market acceptance, our profitability and growth will be severely limited. We derive substantially all of our revenues from laser vision correction. As a result, we believe that our profitability and expansion depend to a large extent on the acceptance of laser vision correction as a safe and effective treatment. There can be no assurance that laser vision correction will be accepted more widely by ophthalmologists, optometrists or the general population as an alternative to existing or future methods of treating refractive vision disorders. Wider acceptance of laser vision correction may be affected adversely by: • Concerns about the safety and effectiveness of laser vision correction procedures, including procedures using new technologies • General resistance to surgery of any type, and eye surgery in particular • Cost, particularly since laser vision correction is not typically covered by government or private insurers • The effectiveness of alternate methods of correcting refractive vision disorders, including but not limited to various intraocular lens technologies • The lack of long-term follow-up data and the possibility of unknown side effects • Regulatory developments • Reported adverse events or other unfavorable publicity involving patient outcomes from laser vision correction Concerns about potential side effects and long-term results may negatively impact market acceptance of laser vision correction, result in potential liability for us and prevent us from growing our business. Concerns have been raised with respect to the predictability and stability of results and potential complications or side effects of laser vision correction. Laser vision correction has been provided in the U.S. only since 1995. Any long-term complications or side effects of laser vision correction may call into question its safety and effectiveness, which in turn may negatively affect market acceptance of laser vision correction. Complications or side effects of laser vision correction could lead to professional liability, malpractice, product liability or other claims against us. In 2005, a significant verdict was awarded against a non-affiliated refractive surgeon in the greater New York area. Consequences of this and similar proceedings could include increased liability to us in connection with malpractice litigation and increased difficulty in hiring and retaining qualified independent ophthalmologists, who may be wary of the increased liability of laser eye surgery, among other effects that will be adverse to our results of operations and profitability. Some of the possible side effects of laser vision correction may include: • Foreign body sensation • Pain or discomfort • Sensitivity to bright lights • Blurred vision or haze • Dryness or tearing • Fluctuation in vision • Night glare and halos • Poor or reduced visual quality • Overcorrection or under correction • Regression • Corneal flap or corneal healing complications 12 Table of Contents • Loss of best corrected visual acuity • Inflammation or infection • Need for corrective lenses or reading glasses post-operatively • Need for further treatment Laser vision correction may also involve the removal of ‘‘Bowman’s membrane,’’ an intermediate layer between the outer corneal layer and the middle corneal layer of the eye. The effect of the removal of Bowman’s membrane on patients is currently not clear. We depend on limited sources for the excimer lasers, diagnostic equipment, microkeratomes and disposable blades we use and for the third-party financing made available to our patients, and shortages of these items or services could hinder our ability to increase our procedure volume. We currently use three suppliers — Bausch & Lomb, Advanced Medical Optics and Alcon — for our excimer lasers. If any or all three of these companies become unwilling or unable to supply us with excimer lasers and diagnostic equipment to repair or replace parts or to provide services, our ability to open new vision centers or increase our capacity to perform laser vision correction services at existing vision centers could be restricted. We currently rely primarily on Bausch & Lomb to provide us with microkeratomes, the devices used to create the corneal flap in the LASIK procedure, as well as with microkeratome blades and other disposable items required for LASIK. There are a limited number of manufacturers of microkeratomes and microkeratome blades, and, if alternate or additional suppliers were needed, there can be no assurance that microkeratomes and microkeratome blades would be available in the quantities or within the time frames we require. Any shortages in our supplies of this equipment could limit our ability to maintain or increase the volume of procedures that we perform, which could result in a decrease in our revenues and profitability. We currently rely exclusively on one unaffiliated finance company for third-party financing made available to our patients. As the percentage of our patients who choose to obtain financing from such unaffiliated finance company grows, so too does our reliance on such finance company. There can be no assurance that financing services will be available in such structure or at such interest rates or costs as we or our patients may require. Any shortage in this area could limit our ability to maintain or increase the volume of procedures that we perform, which could result in a decrease in our revenues and profitability. Our business may be impaired due to government regulations which could restrict our equipment, services and relationships with ophthalmologists, optometrists and other healthcare providers. As described under “Government Regulation” and below, excimer laser manufacturers and our other business partners, including managed care companies and third-party patient financing companies, among others, are subject to extensive federal, state and foreign laws, rules and regulations, including: • Federal restrictions on the approval, distribution and use of medical devices • Anti-kickback statutes in some states • Fee-splitting laws in some states • Corporate practice of medicine restrictions in some states • Physician self-referral laws in some states • Anti-fraud provisions in some states • Facility license requirements and certificates of need in some states • Conflict of interest regulations in some states • Rules and regulations regarding advertising and marketing practices in some states Some of these laws and regulations are vague or ambiguous, and courts and regulatory authorities have not always provided clarification. Moreover, state and local laws, including but not limited to those on sales and use taxes, vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. As a result, some of our activities could be challenged, the success of which cannot be predicted. The failure of our suppliers to obtain regulatory approvals for any additional uses of excimer lasers or otherwise comply with regulatory requirements could limit the number of excimer lasers we have available for use and, therefore, limit the number of procedures we can perform. Failure of the laser manufacturers to comply with applicable FDA requirements could subject us, the independent ophthalmologists who practice in our vision centers or those manufacturers to enforcement actions, including product seizure, recalls, withdrawal of approvals and civil and criminal penalties. Further, failure to comply with regulatory requirements, or any adverse regulatory action, could result in limitations or prohibitions on our use of excimer lasers. Any such actions or proceedings could result in negative publicity, which in turn could result in decreased demand for our services and in a decrease in our capacity to perform laser vision correction services. 13 Table of Contents Our business is heavily dependent on advertising, which is subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission. We are subject to a 2003 FTC Consent Order in which we agreed, among other things, that we would not represent in our advertising that our LASIK surgery services eliminate the need for glasses and contacts for life, pose significantly less risk to patients’ eye health than wearing glasses or contacts, or eliminate the risk of glare and haloing, unless, at the time made, we possess and rely upon competent and reliable scientific evidence that substantiates the representation. We cannot be certain that this order to which we agreed, or any future action by the Federal Trade Commission, will not restrict our ability to cost effectively acquire new patients for our laser vision correction services, or otherwise result in negative publicity and damage our reputation. We are subject to lawsuits for patient injuries, which could subject us to significant judgments and damage our reputation. The laser vision correction procedures performed in our vision centers involve the risk of injury to patients. Such risk could result in professional liability, malpractice, product liability, or other claims brought against us or our independent ophthalmologists and optometrists based upon injuries or alleged injuries associated with a defect in a product’s performance or malpractice by an ophthalmologist, optometrist, technician or other health care professional. Some injuries or defects may not become evident for a number of years. The operation of any excimer laser, diagnostic equipment, microkeratome or other equipment may result in substantial claims against us by patients who allege they were injured as a result of vision correction procedures. Significant lawsuits against us could subject us to significant judgments and damage our reputation. In addition, a partially or completely uninsured claim against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We primarily rely and intend to continue to primarily rely on the independent ophthalmologists’ professional liability insurance policies and manufacturers’ insurance policies for product liability coverage, although we have limited umbrella product and professional liability insurance. We generally require the independent ophthalmologists who use our vision centers to maintain certain levels of professional liability insurance, although there can be no guarantee that the ophthalmologists will be successful in obtaining or maintaining such insurance coverage, particularly in the current insurance market. The availability of professional liability insurance has decreased and its cost has increased significantly for a variety of reasons, including reasons outside our control, particularly in certain states. A future increase in cost could result in the reduced profitability of our business, and a future lack of availability of coverage for us or our independent ophthalmologists and optometrists could result in increased exposure to liability and potentially limit our ability to expand in certain markets. We established a captive insurance company, and if significant claims are paid, it could affect our profitability and our financial condition. Effective as of December 18, 2002, we established a captive insurance company to provide professional liability insurance coverage for claims brought against us after December 17, 2002. In addition, our captive insurance company’s charter allows it to provide professional liability insurance for our doctors, some of whom are currently insured by the captive. Our captive insurance company is managed by an independent insurance consulting and management firm and is capitalized and funded by us based on actuarial studies performed by an affiliate of the consulting and management firm. For the twelve months ending December 17, 2003, our captive insurance company purchased excess liability coverage for 80% of our losses in the year in excess of $1,000,000 per occurrence, up to $11,000,000. Under that arrangement, the coverage providers’ obligation arises only after our captive pays the first $1,000,000 of any loss and the coverage providers are only obligated to pay an aggregate of $8,000,000 for that year. Beginning December 18, 2003, the Company elected to use the captive insurance company for both the primary insurance and the excess liability coverage. A number of claims are now pending with our captive insurance company. The payment of significant claims by our captive insurance company could negatively affect our profitability and our financial condition. Disputes with respect to intellectual property could result in a decrease in revenues and profitability. There has been substantial litigation in the United States, Canada and other countries regarding the patents on ophthalmic lasers. If the use of an excimer laser or other procedure performed at any our vision centers is deemed to infringe a patent or other proprietary right, we may be named as a defendant in ensuing litigation, prohibited from using the equipment or performing the procedure that is the subject of the patent dispute, or required to obtain a royalty-bearing license, which may involve substantial costs including ongoing royalty payments. If a license is not available on acceptable terms, we may be required to seek the use of products that do not infringe the patent. The unavailability of alternate products could cause us to cease operations in the United States or delay our future expansion. If we are prohibited from performing laser vision correction at any of our vision centers, our revenues and profitability would decrease. Not all of the names we use for our products and services have been registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. Some of our internal processes and systems do not have intellectual property protection. If a competitor were to attempt to use our names, processes or systems, we may not be able to prevent such use. The unauthorized use of our name could cause confusion among our customers, and the misappropriation of internal processes or systems could reduce our competitive advantages, either of which could negatively affect our profitability or financial condition. 14 Table of Contents Dependence on and instability among a small number of senior managers. Our success depends, to a significant extent, upon the efforts and abilities of a small number of senior executives. On February 3, 2006, we announced the appointment of Craig Joffe as interim Chief Executive Officer effective as of March 1, 2006. Stephen Joffe, the previous Chief Executive Officer, stepped down effective that date. Stephen Joffe currently remains Chairman of the Board of Directors. Craig Joffe will be considered a candidate for permanent appointment for the position in the search that the Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board of Directors initiated for a new Chief Executive Officer. On March 3, 2006, Stephen Joffe disclosed in a public filing that he and a non-profit foundation with which he is affiliated purchased a significant interest in TLC Vision Corporation, a competitor of ours. These recent changes could cause management instability, including the possible loss of services of one or more of our key employees, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We currently do not have employment agreements with senior key employees, other than short-term employment agreements with Kevin M. Hassey, our President, and Alan H. Buckey, our Executive Vice President/Finance and Chief Financial Officer. We do not carry key man insurance on any of our key employees. Internet The Company’s websites are www.lasikplus.com and www.lca-vision.com. The Company makes available free of charge through a link provided at the website its Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K as well as any amendments thereto. These reports are available as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. To obtain a copy of Form 10-K by mail, free of charge, please send a request to Investor Relations at LCA-Vision Inc., 7840 Montgomery Road, Cincinnati, Ohio 45236. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 