Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our operations. The occurrence of any of the following risks could harm our business. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Associated With our Business We have a limited operating history with significant losses and expect losses to continue for the foreseeable future. We have yet to establish any history of profitable operations. We have incurred losses from operations of $9.3 million, $15.4 million and $16.6 million, respectively, during the fiscal years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005. As a result, at December 31, 2007 we had an accumulated deficit of $189.8 million. We have incurred net losses from continuing operations of $8.9 million, $11.1 million and $14.8 million, respectively, during the fiscal years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. Our revenues have not been sufficient to sustain our operations. We expect that our revenues will not be sufficient to sustain our operations for the foreseeable future. We can give no assurances when or whether we will ever be profitable. We may require additional financing in the future to sustain our operations and without it we may not be able to continue operations. We had an operating cash flow deficit of $4.6 million, $13.6 million and $14.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. On May 25, 2007, we sold $7.0 million in stock to Frazier Healthcare V, L.P. (Frazier). In addition, as of December 31, 2007, we had sold $1.6 million in stock under our $16.0 million common stock purchase agreement with Fusion Capital Fund II, LLC (Fusion Capital). The availability of funds under the $16.0 million common stock purchase agreement with Fusion Capital and our $4.0 million credit agreement with Silicon Valley Bank is subject to many conditions, some of which are predicated on events that are not within our control. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee that these capital resources will be available or will be sufficient to fund our ongoing operations. We only have the right to receive $100,000 every four business days under the agreement with Fusion Capital unless our stock price equals or exceeds $4.50, in which case we can sell greater amounts to Fusion Capital as the price of our common stock increases. Fusion Capital does not have the obligation to purchase any shares of our common stock on any business day that the market price of our common stock is less than $3.00. Since we have authorized 2,666,666 shares for sale to Fusion Capital under the common stock purchase agreement, the selling price of our common stock to Fusion Capital will have to average at least $6.00 per share for us to receive the maximum proceeds of $16.0 million. Under our credit agreement with Silicon Valley Bank, funds available for borrowing are based on eligible trade receivables and inventory as defined. The credit agreement contains a subjective acceleration clause and a requirement to maintain a lockbox with the lender to which all receivable collections are deposited. Under the subjective acceleration clause, the lender may accelerate repayment of amounts borrowed and/or cease making advances to us if it determines that a material adverse change has occurred in our business or our ability to meet our obligations under the agreement. In addition, the proceeds from the lock box will be applied to reduce the 14 Table of Contents outstanding borrowings upon an event of default (including the occurrence of a material adverse change) or if trigger events occur. Our ability to access funds under the credit agreement will be subject to our ability to meet all restrictive covenants and comply with all representations and warranties. The extent to which we rely on Fusion Capital as a source of funding will depend on a number of factors including the prevailing market price of our common stock and the extent to which we are able to secure working capital from other sources, such as through the sale of our products. If sufficient financing from Fusion Capital were to prove unavailable or prohibitively dilutive and if we are unable to sell enough of our products, we may need to secure another source of funding in order to satisfy our working capital needs. Even if we are able to access the full $16.0 million under the common stock purchase agreement with Fusion Capital, we may still need additional capital to fully implement our business, operating and development plans. Should the financing we require to sustain our working capital needs be unavailable or prohibitively expensive when we require it, the consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The sale of our common stock to Fusion Capital may cause dilution and the sale of the shares of common stock acquired by Fusion Capital could cause the price of our common stock to decline. In connection with entering into the common stock purchase agreement with Fusion Capital, we authorized the sale to Fusion Capital of up 2,666,666 shares of our common stock, in addition to the 157,985 shares that we issued to Fusion Capital as a commitment fee. The number of shares ultimately offered for sale by Fusion Capital is dependent upon the number of shares purchased by Fusion Capital under the agreement. The purchase price for the common stock to be sold to Fusion Capital pursuant to the common stock purchase agreement will fluctuate based on the price of our common stock. All 2,824,652 shares that we have registered pursuant to our registration rights agreement with Fusion Capital are freely tradable. It is anticipated that shares registered will be sold over a period of up to 24 months. Depending upon market liquidity at the time, a sale of shares by Fusion Capital at any given time could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Fusion Capital may ultimately purchase all or some of the 2,666,666 shares of common stock authorized for sale to Fusion Capital under the common stock purchase agreement. After it has acquired such shares, it may sell all, some or none of such shares. Therefore, sales to Fusion Capital by us under the common stock purchase agreement may result in substantial dilution to the interests of other holders of our common stock. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by Fusion Capital, or anticipation of such sales, could make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and at a price which we might otherwise wish to effect sales. However, we have the right to control the timing and amount of any sales of our shares to Fusion Capital and the agreement may be terminated by us at any time at our discretion without any cost to us. As of February 29, 2008, we had sold an aggregate of 293,397 shares to Fusion Capital under the common stock purchase agreement, in addition to the 157,985 shares that we issued to Fusion Capital as a commitment fee. Our business may be materially and adversely impacted by the loss of our largest customer or the reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from this customer; in addition, our business may be materially and adversely impacted if this customer delays payment or fails to pay for products sold to this customer. For the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2007 our largest customer accounted for 43.3% and 42.1%, respectively, of our revenues, and as of December 31, 2007 this customer accounted for 38.9% of our accounts receivable. Our sales to this customer may be materially and adversely impacted by various factors relating to this customer’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially and adversely impacted by the loss of this customer, or the reduction, delay or cancellation of orders. In addition, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially and adversely impacted if this customer delays payment or fails to pay for products sold. This customer is not obligated to purchase a specific quantity of our products or provide binding forecasts of purchases for any period. We may be required to make tax payments that exceed our settlement estimates. As of December 31, 2006 and 2007 we estimated that we owed $2.8 million and $2.2 million, respectively, as of each balance sheet date in state and local taxes, primarily sales and use taxes, in various jurisdictions in the United 15 Table of Contents States. We are in the process of negotiating resolutions of the past due tax obligations with the applicable tax authorities. While we hope that these obligations can be settled for less than the amounts accrued, we cannot predict whether we will obtain favorable settlement terms from the various tax authorities, or that, after settling, we will satisfy the conditions necessary to avoid violating the settlements. Our failure to obtain favorable settlement terms or to satisfy the settlement conditions may result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may incur significant expenses in the future as a result of our obligation to pay legal fees for and otherwise indemnify former officers and former directors. As described below under Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” certain former officers and former directors continue to be involved in investigations and related legal proceedings brought by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) and the Department of Justice (the DOJ). We are contractually obligated to pay legal fees for and otherwise indemnify these former officers and former directors. We may incur significant expenses in the future as a result of these obligations. The amount of these expenses is unpredictable and outside of our control and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our success will depend on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. In order to execute our business plan, we need to attract, retain and motivate a significant number of highly qualified managerial, technical, financial and sales personnel. If we fail to attract and retain skilled scientific and sales personnel, our research and development and sales and marketing efforts will be hindered. Our future success depends to a significant degree upon the continued services of key management personnel. None of our key management personnel is covered by an insurance policy of which we are the beneficiary. Our success is reliant on the acceptance by doctors and patients of the Cryocare Surgical System as a preferred treatment for tumor ablation. Cryoablation has existed for many years, but has not been widely accepted primarily due to concerns regarding safety and efficacy and widespread use of alternative therapies. Because the technology previously lacked precise monitoring capabilities, prostate cryoablation procedures performed in the 1970s resulted in high cancer recurrence and negative side effects, such as rectal fistulae and incontinence, and gave cryoablation treatment negative publicity. To overcome these negative side effects, we have developed ultrasound guidance and temperature sensing to enable more precise monitoring in our Cryocare Surgical System. Nevertheless, we will need to overcome the earlier negative publicity associated with cryoablation in order to obtain market acceptance for our products. In addition, use of our Cryocare Surgical System requires significant physician education and training. As a result, we may have difficulty obtaining recommendations and endorsements of physicians and patients for our Cryocare Surgical System. We may also have difficulty raising the brand awareness necessary to generate interest in our Cryocare Surgical System. Any adverse side effects, including impotence or incontinence, recurrence of cancer or future reported adverse events or other unfavorable publicity involving patient outcomes from the use of cryoablation, whether from our products or the products of our competitors, could adversely affect acceptance of cryoablation. In addition, emerging new technologies and procedures to treat prostate cancer may negatively affect the market acceptance of cryoablation. If our Cryocare Surgical System does not achieve broad market acceptance, we will likely remain unprofitable. We are faced with intense competition and rapid technological and industry change, which may make it more difficult for us to achieve significant market penetration. The medical device industry generally, and the cancer treatment market in particular, are characterized by rapid technological change, changing customer needs and frequent new product introductions. If our competitors’ existing products or new products are more effective than or considered superior to our products, the commercial opportunity for our products will be reduced or eliminated. We face intense competition from companies in the cryoablation marketplace as well as companies offering other treatment options, including radical prostatectomy, radiation therapy and hormone therapy. If we are successful in penetrating the market for treatment of prostate cancer with our cryoablation treatment, other medical device companies may be attracted to the marketplace. Many 16 Table of Contents of our potential competitors are significantly larger than we are and have greater financial, technical, research, marketing, sales, distribution and other resources than we do. We believe there will be intense price competition for products developed in our markets. Our competitors may develop or market technologies and products that are more effective or commercially attractive than any that we are developing or marketing. Our competitors may obtain regulatory approval and introduce and commercialize products before we do. These developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Even if we are able to compete successfully, we may not be able to do so in a profitable manner. If we are unable to continue to enhance our Cryocare Surgical System, our business will suffer. Our growth depends in part on continued ability to successfully develop, manufacture and commercialize enhancements to our Cryocare Surgical System. We may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, manufacturing and commercialization of these products. Our products in development may not prove safe and effective in clinical trials. Clinical trials may identify significant technical or other obstacles that must be overcome before obtaining necessary regulatory or reimbursement approvals. In addition, our competitors may succeed in developing commercially viable products that render our products obsolete or less attractive. Failure to successfully develop, manufacture and commercialize new products and enhancements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. There is uncertainty relating to third-party reimbursement, which is critical to market acceptance of our products. Hospitals and other health care providers in the United States generally rely on third-party payers, principally federal Medicare, state Medicaid and private health insurance plans, to reimburse all or part of the cost of medical procedures involving our products. While private health insurers in some areas of the United States provide reimbursement for procedures in which our products are used, we can provide no assurance that private insurance reimbursement will be adopted nationally or by additional insurers. Furthermore, those private insurance companies currently paying for procedures in which our products are used may terminate such coverage. If reimbursement levels from Medicare, Medicaid, other governmental health care programs or private insurers are not sufficient, physicians may choose not to recommend, and patients may not choose, procedures using our products. International market acceptance of our products may depend, in part, upon the availability of reimbursement within prevailing health care payment systems. Reimbursement and health care payment systems in international markets vary significantly by country, and include both government sponsored health care and private insurance. We may not obtain international reimbursement approvals in a timely manner, if at all. Our failure to receive international reimbursement approvals may negatively impact market acceptance of our products in the international markets in which those approvals are sought. From time to time significant attention has been focused on reforming the health care system in the United States and other countries. Any changes in Medicare, Medicaid or third-party medical expense reimbursement, which may arise from health care reform, may have a material adverse effect on reimbursement for our products or procedures in which our products are used and may reduce the price we are able to charge for our products. In addition, changes to the health care system may also affect the commercial acceptance of products we are currently developing and products we may develop in the future. Potential changes that have been considered include controls on health care spending and price controls. Several proposals have been made in the United States Congress and various state legislatures recently that, if adopted, would potentially reduce health care spending, which may result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitors may take advantage of our ideas and compete directly against us. Our success will depend to a significant degree on our ability to secure and protect intellectual property rights and to enforce patent and trademark protections relating to our technology. From time to time, litigation may be advisable to protect our intellectual property position. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. Any litigation in 17 Table of Contents this regard could be costly, and it is possible that we will not have sufficient resources to fully pursue litigation or to protect our other intellectual property rights. Litigation could result in the rejection or invalidation of our existing and future patents. Any adverse outcome in litigation relating to the validity of our patents, or any failure to pursue litigation or otherwise to protect our patent position, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Also, even if we prevail in litigation, the litigation would be costly in terms of management distraction as well as in terms of money. In addition, confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, customers, and key vendors may not prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technology. It is possible that these agreements could be breached or that they might not be enforceable in every instance, and that we might not have adequate remedies for any such breach. Enforcement of these agreements may be costly and time consuming. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Because the medical device industry is litigious, we may be sued for allegedly violating the intellectual property rights of others. The medical technology industry has in the past been characterized by a substantial amount of litigation and related administrative proceedings regarding patents and intellectual property rights. In addition, major medical device companies have used litigation against emerging growth companies as a means of gaining or preserving a competitive advantage. Should third parties file patent applications or be issued patents claiming technology also claimed by us in pending applications, we may be required to participate in interference proceedings in the United States Patent and Trademark Office to determine the relative priorities of our inventions and the third parties’ inventions. We could also be required to participate in interference proceedings involving our issued patents and pending applications of another entity. An adverse outcome in an interference proceeding could require us to cease using the technology or to license rights from prevailing third parties. Third parties may claim we are using their patented inventions and may go to court to stop us from engaging in our normal operations and activities. These lawsuits are expensive to defend and conduct and would also consume and divert the time and attention of our management. A court may decide that we are infringing a third party’s patents and may order us to cease the infringing activity. A court could also order us to pay damages for the infringement. These damages could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we are unable to obtain any necessary license following an adverse determination in litigation or in interference or other administrative proceedings, we would have to redesign our products to avoid infringing a third party’s patent and could temporarily or permanently have to discontinue manufacturing and selling some of our products. If this were to occur, it would negatively impact future sales and, in turn, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we fail to obtain or maintain necessary regulatory clearances or approvals for products, or if approvals are delayed or withdrawn, we will be unable to commercially distribute and market our products or any product modifications. Government regulation has a significant impact on our business. Government regulation in the United States and other countries is a significant factor affecting the research and development, manufacture and marketing of our products. In the United States, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has broad authority under the federal FD&C Act to regulate the development, distribution, manufacture and sale of medical devices. Foreign sales of drugs and medical devices are subject to foreign governmental regulation and restrictions, which vary from country to country. The process of obtaining FDA and other required regulatory clearances and approvals (collectively, approvals) is lengthy and expensive. We may not be able to obtain or maintain necessary approvals for clinical testing or for the manufacturing or marketing of our products. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory approvals can, among other things, result in fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. In addition, governmental regulations may be established which could prevent, delay, modify or rescind regulatory approval of our products. Any of these actions by the FDA, 18 Table of Contents or change in FDA regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Regulatory approvals, if granted, may include significant limitations on the indicated uses for which our products may be marketed. In addition, to obtain such approvals, the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities may impose numerous other requirements on us. FDA enforcement policy prohibits the marketing of approved medical devices for unapproved uses. In addition, product approvals can be withdrawn for failure to comply with regulatory standards or unforeseen problems following initial marketing. We may not be able to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals for our products on a timely basis, or at all, and delays in receipt of or failure to receive such approvals, the loss of previously obtained approvals or failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our products may be subject to product recalls even after receiving FDA clearance or approval, which would harm our reputation and our business. The FDA and similar governmental authorities in other countries have the authority to request and, in some cases, require the recall of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design, manufacture or labeling or in the event of patient injury. A governmental mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors or design defects. Any recall of product would divert managerial and financial resources and harm our reputation with customers and our business, impact our ability to distribute the recalled product in the future, require costly redesign or manufacturing changes and leave the company vulnerable to additional regulatory sanctions and product liability litigation. We could be negatively impacted by future interpretation or implementation of the federal anti-kickback and Stark laws and other federal and state anti-self-referral and anti-kickback laws. Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) recently issued a final rule, making a number of changes to the current Stark law regulations. The final rule, which was effective December 4, 2007, does not change the current status of our financial relationships. However, CMS also recently issued additional proposed changes to the Stark Law regulations which could, depending on the final version of those regulations and how they are interpreted, change the status of certain physician-owned entities that purchase or lease our products. As of November 2007, CMS has decided to delay publication of the final version of those proposed Stark law rules. We expect that CMS will issue the new rules, and may issue additional guidance, in 2008. However, we are unable to predict whether, and the extent to which, the new rules or guidance will affect our business. Depending on the content of the new rules or guidance, we may incur significant time and expenses in the future to restructure existing business relationships. If we become subject to product liability claims, we may be required to pay damages that exceed our insurance coverage. Our business exposes us to potential product liability claims that are inherent in the testing, production, marketing and sale of medical devices. While we believe that we are reasonably insured against these risks, we may not maintain insurance in amounts or scope sufficient to provide us with adequate coverage. A claim in excess of our insurance coverage would have to be paid out of cash reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, any product liability claim could harm our reputation in the industry and our business. Our intangible assets could become impaired. Intangible assets acquired in a purchase, such as intellectual property or developed technology, are generally amortized over various periods depending on their anticipated economic benefits or useful lives. Long-lived assets, including amortizable intangibles, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to undiscounted future net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. Following a review, if such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying value of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets. 19 Table of Contents Significant estimates, including assumptions regarding future events and circumstances that cannot be easily predicted, are required to perform an analysis of the value of intangible assets. These estimates and assumptions may differ materially from actual outcomes and occurrences. Our facilities and systems are vulnerable to natural disasters or other catastrophic events. Our headquarters, cryoablation products manufacturing facilities, research facilities and much of our infrastructure, including computer servers, are located in California, an area that is susceptible to earthquakes and other natural disasters. A natural disaster or other catastrophic event, such as an earthquake, fire, flood, severe storm, break-in, terrorist attack or other comparable problems could cause interruptions or delays in our business and loss of data or render us unable to accept and fulfill customer orders in a timely manner, or at all. We have no formal disaster recovery plan and our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur. In the event that an earthquake, natural disaster or other catastrophic event were to destroy any part of our facilities or interrupt our operations for any extended period of time, or if harsh weather conditions prevent us from delivering products in a timely manner, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Associated with an Investment in Our Common Stock. The market price of our common stock is highly volatile. The market price of our common stock has been and is expected to continue to be highly volatile. Various factors, including announcements of technological innovations by us or other companies, regulatory matters, new or existing products or procedures, concerns about our financial position, operating results, litigation, government regulation, developments or disputes relating to agreements, patents or proprietary rights, may have a significant impact on the market price of our stock. If our operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the market price of our common stock may fall abruptly and significantly. Future sales of shares of our common stock may negatively affect our stock price. Future sales of our common stock, including shares issued upon the exercise of outstanding options and warrants or hedging or other derivative transactions with respect to our stock, could have a significant negative effect on the market price of our common stock. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we would deem appropriate. We had an aggregate of 11,773,293 shares of common stock outstanding as of February 29, 2008, which includes 1,878,448 shares of our common stock that we issued on March 11, 2005 in a private placement financing, 451,382 shares of our common stock that we have issued to Fusion Capital since October 2006 (which includes the 157,985 shares issued to Fusion Capital as a commitment fee) and 1,085,271 shares of our common stock that we issued to Frazier on May 25, 2007. Investors in our March 2005 financing also received warrants to purchase an aggregate of 657,446 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $10.50 per share and 657,446 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $12.00 per share. These warrants have an anti-dilution clause that in certain circumstances reduces the effective exercise price of the warrants and proportionately increases the number of shares underlying the warrants to preserve the ownership of the warrant holders. As a result of our issuances to Fusion Capital and Frazier described above, the exercise price of the Series A Warrants decreased to $10.02 to effectively provide holders the right to purchase an additional 31,667 shares and the exercise price of the Series B Warrants decreased to $11.37 to effectively provide holders the right to purchase an additional 37,191 shares. We entered into registration rights agreements in connection with these financings pursuant to which we agreed to register for resale by the investors the shares of common stock issued. Sales of shares covered by these registration statements could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our shares. 20 Table of Contents We could be difficult to acquire due to anti-takeover provisions in our charter, our stockholders rights plan and Delaware law. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire control of our company. In addition, we have adopted a stockholder rights plan in which preferred stock purchase rights were distributed as a dividend. These provisions may make it more difficult for stockholders to take corporate actions and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. These provisions also could deter or prevent transactions that stockholders deem to be in their interests. In addition, we are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Subject to specified exceptions, this section provides that a corporation may not engage in any business combination with any interested stockholder during the three-year period following the time that such stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. This provision could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company. The foregoing factors could reduce the price that investors or an acquirer might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 