Item 1A. RISK FACTORS CERTAIN FACTORS AFFECTING BUSINESS, OPERATING RESULTS, AND FINANCIAL CONDITION In addition to other information contained in this Form 10-K, investors should carefully consider the following factors that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. All statements other than statements of historical fact are "forward-looking statements" for purposes of these provisions, including any statements regarding: projections of revenues, future research and development expenses, future selling, general and administrative expenses, other expenses, gross profit, gross margin, or other financial items; the plans and objectives of management for future operations; our exposure to interest rate risk; future economic conditions or performance; plans to focus on cost control; In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of terminology such as "may," "will," "expects," "plans," "anticipates," "estimates," "potential," or "continue," or the negative thereof or other comparable terminology. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements contained herein are reasonable, there can be no assurance that such expectations or any of the forward-looking statements will prove to be correct, and actual results could differ materially from those projected or assumed in the forward-looking statements. Our future financial condition and results of operations, as well as any forward-looking statements, are subject to risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to the factors set forth below and elsewhere in this report. All forward-looking statements and reasons why results may differ included in this Annual Report are made as of the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to update any such forward-looking statement or reason why actual results may differ. Risks Related to Ownership of our Common Stock Our common stock no longer trades on the NASDAQ Capital Market In March 2010, we voluntarily delisted our common stock from the NASDAQ Capital Market and moved our common stock listing to the OTCQX over-the-counter market. As a result, investors may find it more difficult to dispose of or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our common stock, and the ability of our stockholders to sell our securities in the secondary market may be materially limited. Our stock price may be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. Factors that could affect the trading price of our common stock could include: · variations in our operating results; · announcements of technological innovations, new products or product enhancements, strategic alliances or significant agreements by us or by our competitors; · the gain or loss of significant customers; 13 · recruitment or departure of key personnel; · the impact of unfavorable worldwide economic and market conditions, including the restricted credit environment impacting our customers’ ability to obtain credit; · changes in estimates of our operating results or changes in recommendations by any securities analysts who follow our common stock; · significant sales, or announcement of significant sales, of our common stock by us or our stockholders; and · adoption or modification of regulations, policies, procedures or programs applicable to our business. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for technology companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Broad market and industry factors may seriously affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. We may choose to raise additional capital. Such capital may not be available, or may be available on unfavorable terms, which would adversely affect our ability to operate our business. We expect that our existing cash balances will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for the foreseeable future. If we choose to raise additional funds, due to unforeseen circumstances or material expenditures, we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, if at all, and any additional financings could result in additional dilution to our existing stockholders. Provisions in our charter documents, Delaware law, employment arrangements with certain of our executive officers and Preferred Stock Rights Agreement could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include but are not limited to the following: · our board of directors has the right to increase the size of the board of directors and to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors; · our board of directors is staggered into three (3) classes and each member is elected for a term of 3 years, which prevents stockholders from being able to assume control of the board of directors; · our stockholders may not act by written consent and are limited in their ability to call special stockholders’ meetings; as a result, a holder, or holders controlling a majority of our capital stock would be limited in their ability to take certain actions other than at annual stockholders’ meetings or special stockholders’ meetings called by the board of directors, the chairman of the board or the president; · our certificate of incorporation prohibits cumulative voting in the election of directors, which limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates; · stockholders must provide advance notice to nominate individuals for election to the board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquiror from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquiror’s own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company; and · our board of directors may issue, without stockholder approval, shares of undesignated preferred stock; the ability to issue undesignated preferred stock makes it possible for our board of directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us. 14 As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover provisions. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. Our board of directors could rely on Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. Certain of our executive officers may be entitled to accelerated vesting of their options pursuant to the terms of their employment arrangements upon a change of control of AltiGen. In addition to the arrangements currently in place with some of our executive officers, we may enter into similar arrangements in the future with other officers. Such arrangements could delay or discourage a potential acquisition of AltiGen. Our board of directors declared a dividend of one (1) right for each share of Common Stock under the terms and conditions of a Preferred Stock Rights Agreement by and between AltiGen and Computershare Trust Company, N.A., as rights agent, dated April 21, 2009, which right is exercisable for shares of AltiGen’s Preferred Stock after the date on which a hostile acquiror obtains, or announces a tender offer for, 15% or more of the Company’s Common Stock. If an acquiror obtains 15% or more of the Company’s Common Stock, each stockholder (except the acquiror) may purchase either our Common Stock or in certain circumstances, the acquiror’s Common Stock, at a discount, resulting in substantial dilution to the acquiror’s interest. Such rights could delay or discourage a potential acquisition of AltiGen. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they issue an adverse or misleading opinion regarding our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock may be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If any of the analysts who cover us issue an adverse or misleading opinion regarding our stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Risks Related to Our Business Our extensive research and development efforts may not result in products that are successful in the marketplace. To maintain our market share for existing products and to gain market share in new markets, we must invest heavily each year in research and development spending. This research and development spending often involves new technologies or updates to existing technology. We can provide no assurance that our research and development efforts to develop new technology will be successful or that new products we may develop through such efforts will be successful in the marketplace. Our business could be harmed by adverse global economic conditions in our target markets or reduced spending on information technology and telecommunication products. Current uncertainty in global economic conditions pose a risk to the overall economy as consumers and businesses may defer purchases in response to tighter credit and negative financial news, which could negatively affect product demand and other related matters. Our business depends on the overall demand for information technology, and in particular for telecommunications systems. The market we serve is emerging and the purchase of our products involves significant upfront expenditures. In addition, the purchase of our products can be discretionary and may involve a significant commitment of capital and other resources. Weak economic conditions in our target markets, or a reduction in information technology or telecommunications spending even if economic conditions improve, would likely adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition in a number of ways, including longer sales cycles, lower prices for our products and reduced unit sales. 15 We have had a history of losses and may incur future losses, which may prevent us from attaining profitability. We have had a history of operating losses since our inception and, as of September 30, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of $62.4 million as compared to $60.7 million as of September 30, 2009. We may incur operating losses in the future, and these losses could be substantial and impact our ability to attain profitability. We do not expect to significantly increase expenditures for product development, general and administrative expenses, and sales and marketing expenses; however, if we cannot maintain current revenue or revenue growth, we will not achieve or sustain profitability or positive operating cash flows. Even if we achieve profitability and positive operating cash flows, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability or positive operating cash flows on a quarterly or annual basis. Our operating results vary, making future operating results difficult to predict. Our quarterly and annual operating results have varied significantly in the past and likely will vary significantly in the future. A number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, have caused and may cause our operating results to vary, including: · our ability to respond effectively to competitive pricing pressures; · our ability to establish or increase market acceptance of our technology, products and systems; · our success in expanding our network of distributors, dealers and companies that buy our products in bulk, customize them for particular applications or customers, and resell them under their own names; · market acceptance of products and systems incorporating our technology and enhancements to our product applications on a timely basis; · our success in supporting our products and systems; · our sales cycle, which may vary substantially from customer to customer; · unfavorable changes in the prices and delivery of the components we purchase; · the size and timing of orders for our products, which may vary depending on the season, and the contractual terms of the orders; · the size and timing of our expenses, including operating expenses and expenses of developing new products and product enhancements; · deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products, services or product enhancements introduced by us or by our competitors; and · our ability to attain and maintain production volumes and quality levels for our products. Our future projected budgets and commitments are based in part on our expectations of future sales. If our sales do not meet expectations, it will be difficult for us to reduce our expenses quickly and, consequently, our operating results may suffer. Our dealers often require immediate shipment and installation of our products. As a result, we have historically operated with limited backlog, and our sales and operating results in any quarter primarily depend on orders booked and shipped during that quarter. Any of the above factors could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not meaningful, and you should not rely upon them as indicators of our future performance. Our market is highly competitive and we may not have the resources to adequately compete. The market for our integrated, multifunction telecommunications systems is new, rapidly evolving and highly competitive. We expect competition to intensify in the future as existing competitors develop new products and new competitors enter the market. We believe that a critical component to success in this market is the ability to establish and maintain strong partner and customer relationships with a wide variety of domestic and international providers. If we fail to establish or maintain these relationships, we will be at a serious competitive disadvantage. 16 We face competition from companies providing traditional private telephone systems. Our principal competitors that produce these telephone systems are Avaya Communications and Mitel Networks Corporation. We also compete against providers of multi-function telecommunications systems, including Shoretel and Cisco Systems, as well as any number of future competitors. Many of our competitors are substantially larger than we are and have significantly greater name recognition, financial resources, sales and marketing teams, technical and customer support, manufacturing capabilities and other resources. These competitors also may have more established distribution channels and stronger relationships with service providers. These competitors may be able to respond more rapidly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products. These competitors may enter our existing or future markets with products that may be less expensive, provide higher performance or additional features or be introduced earlier than our phone systems. We also expect that other companies may enter our market with better products and technologies. If any technology that is competing with ours is more reliable, faster, less expensive or has other advantages over our technology, then the demand for our products and services could decrease and harm our business. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the performance of their current products and introduce new products or new technologies. If our competitors successfully introduce new products or enhance their existing products, our sales or market acceptance of our products and services could be reduced, price competition could be increased or our products could become obsolete. To remain competitive, therefore, we must continue to invest significant resources in research and development, sales and marketing and customer support. We may not have sufficient resources to make these investments or to make the technological advances necessary to be competitive, which in turn will cause our business to suffer. We sell the majority of our products through dealers and distributors, which limits our ability to control the timing of our sales, and which makes it more difficult to predict our revenue. We do not recognize revenue from the sale of our products to our distributors until these products are sold to either resellers or end-users. We have little control over the timing of product sales to resellers and end users. Our lack of control over the revenue that we recognize from our distributors’ sales to resellers and end-users limits our ability to predict revenue for any given period. Our future projected budgets and commitments are based in part on our expectations of future sales. If our sales do not meet expectations, it will be difficult for us to reduce our expenses quickly, and consequently our operating results may suffer. We rely on resellers to promote, sell, install and support our products, and their failure to do so or our inability to recruit or retain resellers may substantially reduce our sales and thus seriously harm our business. We rely on resellers who can provide high quality sales and support services. As with our distributors, we compete with other telecommunications systems providers for our resellers’ business as our resellers generally market competing products. If a reseller promotes a competitor’s products to the detriment of our products or otherwise fails to market our products and services effectively, we could lose market share. In addition, the loss of a key reseller or the failure of resellers to provide adequate customer service could cause our business to suffer. If we do not properly train our resellers to sell, install and service our products, our business will suffer. Software or hardware errors may seriously harm our business and damage our reputation, causing loss of customers and revenue. Users expect telephone systems to provide a high level of reliability. Our products are inherently complex and may have undetected software or hardware errors. We have detected and may continue to detect errors and product defects in our installed base of products, new product releases and product upgrades. End users may install, maintain and use our products improperly or for purposes for which they were not designed. These problems may degrade or terminate the operation of our products, which could cause end users to lose telephone service, cause us to incur significant warranty and repair costs, damage our reputation and cause significant customer relations problems. Any significant delay in the commercial introduction of our products due to errors or defects, any design modifications required to correct these errors or defects or any negative effect on customer satisfaction as a result of errors or defects could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any claims brought because of problems with our products or services could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently offer a one-year hardware guarantee to end-users. If our products fail within the first year, we face replacement costs. Our insurance policies may not provide sufficient or any coverage should a claim be asserted. In addition, our introduction of products and systems with reliability, quality or compatibility problems could result in reduced revenue, uncollectible accounts receivable, delays in collecting accounts receivable, warranties and additional costs. Our customers, end users or employees could find errors in our products and systems after we have begun to sell them, resulting in product redevelopment costs and loss of, or delay in, their acceptance by the markets in which we compete. Further, we may experience significant product returns in the future. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 Our market is subject to changing preferences; failure to keep up with these changes would result in our losing market share, thus seriously harming our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our customers and end users expect frequent product introductions and have changing requirements for new products and features. In order to be competitive, we need to develop and market new products and product enhancements that respond to these changing requirements on a timely and cost-effective basis. Our failure to do so promptly and cost effectively would seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, introducing new products could require us to write-off existing inventory as obsolete, which could harm our results of operations. We depend on attracting and retaining qualified personnel to maintain and expand our business; our failure to promptly attract and retain qualified personnel may seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel, particularly engineers and sales and marketing personnel. We need highly trained technical personnel to design and support our server-based telecommunications systems. In addition, we need highly trained sales and marketing personnel to expand our marketing and sales operations in order to increase market awareness of our products and generate increased revenue. Competition for highly trained personnel can at times be intense, especially in the San Francisco Bay Area where most of our operations are located. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in our recruitment and retention efforts. If we fail to attract or retain qualified personnel or suffer from delays in hiring required personnel, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be seriously harmed. Losing any of our key distributors would harm our business. We also need to establish and maintain relationships with additional distributors and original equipment manufacturers. Sales through our distributors, Altisys Communications, Inc., Synnex Corporation and Fiserv Solutions, Inc. accounted for 56% of our net revenue in fiscal year ended September 30, 2010. Our business and operating results will suffer if any one of these distributors does not continue distributing our products, fails to distribute the volume of our products that it currently distributes or fails to expand our customer base. We also need to establish and maintain relationships with additional distributors and original equipment manufacturers. In September 2009, we terminated our distribution agreement with Jenne Distributors, Inc. The termination of our relationship with Jenne Distributors, Inc. did not have a material impact on our business for fiscal year 2010. We may not be able to establish, or successfully manage, relationships with additional distribution partners. In addition, our agreements with distributors typically provide for termination by either party upon written notice to the other party. For example, our agreement with Synnex provides for termination, with or without cause, by either party upon 30 days’ written notice to the other party, or upon insolvency or bankruptcy. Generally, these agreements are non-exclusive and distributors sell products that compete with ours. If we fail to establish or maintain relationships with distributors and original equipment manufacturers, our ability to increase or maintain our sales and our customer base will be substantially harmed. 18 We rely on sole-sourced components and third party technology and products; if these components are not available, our business may suffer. We purchase technology that is incorporated into many of our products, including virtually all of our hardware products, from a single third-party supplier. We order sole-sourced components using purchase orders and do not have supply contracts for them. One sole-sourced component, a TI DSP chip, is particularly important to our business because it is included in virtually all of our hardware products. If we were unable to purchase an adequate supply of these sole-sourced components on a timely basis, we would be required to develop alternative products, which could entail qualifying an alternative source or redesigning our products based on different components. Our inability to obtain these sole-sourced components, especially the TI DSP chip, could significantly delay shipment of our products, which could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our facility is vulnerable to damage from earthquakes and other natural disasters and other business interruptions; any such damage could seriously or completely impair our business. We perform final assembly, software installation and testing of our products at our facility in San Jose, California. Our facility is located on or near known earthquake fault zones and may be subject to rolling electrical blackouts and is vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, floods, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. If such a disaster or interruption occurs, our ability to perform final assembly, software installation and testing of our products at our facility would be seriously, if not completely, impaired. If we were unable to obtain an alternative place or way to perform these functions, our business, financial condition and results of operations would suffer. The insurance we maintain may not be adequate to cover our losses against fires, floods, earthquakes and general business interruptions. Our strategy to outsource assembly and test functions in the future could delay delivery of products, decrease quality or increase costs. We may begin to outsource a substantial amount of our product assembly and test functions. This outsourcing strategy involves certain risks, including the potential lack of adequate capacity and reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yield, quality and costs. In the event that any significant subcontractors were to become unable or unwilling to continue to manufacture or test our products in the required volumes, we would have to identify and qualify acceptable replacements. Finding replacements could take time and we cannot be sure that additional sources would be available to us on a timely basis. Any delay or increase in costs in the assembly and testing of products by third-party subcontractors could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our expansion in international markets has been slow and steady. However, our plan is to accelerate this growth rate and will involve new risks that our previous domestic operations have not prepared us to address; our failure to address these risks could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. For fiscal year 2010, approximately 14% of our net revenue came from customers outside of the Americas. We intend to expand our international sales and marketing efforts. Our efforts are subject to a variety of risks associated with conducting business internationally, any of which could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. These risks include: · tariffs, duties, price controls or other restrictions on foreign currencies or trade barriers, such as import or export licensing imposed by foreign countries, especially on technology; · potential adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on repatriation of cash or earnings; · fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which could make our products relatively more expensive in foreign markets; and · conflicting regulatory requirements in different countries that may require us to invest significant resources customizing our products for each country. 19 Any failure by us to protect our intellectual property could harm our business and competitive position. Our success depends, to a certain extent, upon our proprietary technology. We currently rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark law, together with non-disclosure and invention assignment agreements, to establish and protect the proprietary rights in the technology used in our products. Although we have been issued sixteen patents and expect to continue to file patent applications, we are not certain that our patent applications will result in the issuance of patents, or that any patents issued will provide commercially significant protection of our technology. In addition, other individuals or companies may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information not covered by the patents to which we own rights, may obtain access to our know-how or may claim to have issued patents that prevent the sale of one or more of our products. Also, it may be possible for third parties to obtain and use our proprietary information without our authorization. Further, the laws of some countries, such as those in Japan, one of our target markets, may not adequately protect our intellectual property or such protection may be uncertain. Our success also depends on trade secrets that cannot be patented and are difficult to protect. If we fail to protect our proprietary information effectively, or if third parties use our proprietary technology without authorization, our competitive position and business will suffer. If we are unable to raise additional capital when needed, we may be unable to develop or enhance our products and services. We may seek additional funding in the future. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may be unable to develop or enhance our products and services, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements. We also may be required to reduce operating costs through lay-offs or reduce our sales and marketing or research and development efforts. If we issue equity securities, stockholders may experience additional dilution or the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. We may face infringement issues that could harm our business by requiring us to license technology on unfavorable terms or temporarily or permanently cease sales of key products. We may become parties to litigation in the normal course of our business. Litigation in general, and intellectual property and securities litigation in particular, can be expensive and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex litigation are difficult to predict. We were previously a defendant in a patent infringement suit brought by Vertical Networks. On October 4, 2007, the parties entered into a stipulation dismissing the lawsuit in its entirety without prejudice. Consequently, Vertical Networks may reassert these or related claims in one or more separate proceedings. More generally, litigation related to these types of claims may require us to acquire licenses under third party patents that may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. We believe that an increasing portion of our revenue in the future will come from sales of software applications for our hardware products. The software market traditionally has experienced widespread unauthorized reproduction of products in violation of developers’ intellectual property rights. This activity is difficult to detect, and legal proceedings to enforce developers’ intellectual property rights are often burdensome and involve a high degree of uncertainty and substantial costs. Our products may not meet the legal standards required for their sale in some countries; if we cannot sell our products in these countries, our results of operations may be seriously harmed. The United States and other countries in which we intend to sell our products have standards for safety and other certifications that must be met for our products to be legally sold in those countries. We have tried to design our products to meet the requirements of the countries where we sell or plan to sell them. We also have obtained or are trying to obtain the certifications that we believe are required to sell our products in these countries. We cannot, however, guarantee that our products meet all of these standards or that we will be able to obtain any certifications required. In addition, there is, and will likely continue to be, an increasing number of laws and regulations pertaining to the products we offer and may offer in the future. These laws or regulations may include, for example, more stringent safety standards, requirements for additional or more burdensome certifications or more stringent consumer protection laws. If our products do not meet a country’s standards or we do not receive the certifications required by a country's laws or regulations, then we may not be able to sell our products in that country. This inability to sell our products may seriously harm our results of operation by reducing our sales or requiring us to invest significant resources to conform our products to these standards. 20 Risks Related to the Industry Integrated, multifunction telecommunications systems may not achieve widespread acceptance. The market for integrated, multifunction telecommunications systems is relatively new and rapidly evolving. Businesses have invested substantial resources in the existing telecommunications infrastructure, including traditional private telephone systems, and may be unwilling to replace these systems in the near term or at all. Businesses also may be reluctant to adopt integrated, multifunction telecommunications systems because of their concern about the current limitations of data networks, including the Internet. For example, end users sometimes experience delays in receiving calls and reduced voice quality during calls when routing calls over data networks. Moreover, businesses that begin to route calls over the same networks that currently carry only their data also may experience these problems if the networks do not have sufficient capacity to carry all of these communications at the same time. Evolving standards may delay our product introductions, increase our product development costs or cause end users to defer or cancel plans to purchase our products, any of which could adversely affect our business. The standards in our market are still evolving. These standards are designed to ensure that integrated, multifunction telecommunications products from different manufacturers can operate together. Some of these standards are proposed by other participants in our market, including some of our competitors, and include proprietary technology. In recent years, these standards have changed, and new standards have been proposed, in response to developments in our market. Our failure to conform our products to existing or future standards may limit their acceptance by market participants. We may not anticipate which standards will achieve the broadest acceptance in our market in the future, and we may take a significant amount of time and expense to adapt our products to these standards. We also may have to pay additional royalties to developers of proprietary technologies that become standards in our market. These delays and expenses may seriously harm our results of operations. In addition, customers and users may defer or cancel plans to purchase our products due to concerns about the ability of our products to conform to existing standards or to adapt to new or changed standards, and this could seriously harm our results of operations. Future regulation or legislation could harm our business or increase our cost of doing business. The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) has submitted a report to Congress stating that it may regulate certain Internet services if it determines that such Internet services are functionally equivalent to conventional telecommunications services. The increasing growth of the voice over data network market and the popularity of supporting products and services, heighten the risk that national governments will seek to regulate the transmission of voice communications over networks such as the Internet. In addition, large telecommunications companies may devote substantial lobbying efforts to influence the regulation of this market so as to benefit their interests, which may be contrary to our interests. These regulations may include, for example, assessing access or settlement charges, imposing tariffs or imposing regulations based on encryption concerns or the characteristics and quality of products and services. In February 2004, the FCC found that an entirely Internet based voice over Internet protocol service was an unregulated information service. At the same time, the FCC began a broader proceeding to examine what its role should be in this new environment of increased consumer choice and what can be done to meet its role of safeguarding the public interest. Future laws, legal decisions or regulations, as well as changes in interpretations of existing laws and regulations, could require us to expend significant resources to comply with them. In addition, these future events or changes may create uncertainty in our market that could reduce demand for our products. 21 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 