Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with all other information contained or incorporated by reference in this filing, before you decide to purchase shares of our common stock. These factors could cause our future results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by forward-looking statements made by us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also harm our business. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. We operate in rapidly evolving markets, which makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects. The revenue and income potential of our business and the markets we serve are early in their lifecycle and are difficult to predict. The Digital Visual Interface (DVI) specification, which is based on technology developed by us 20 Table of Contents and used in many of our products, was first published in April 1999. We completed our first generation of consumer electronics and storage IC products in mid-to-late 2001. The preliminary serial ATA specification was first published in August 2001. The High Definition Multimedia Interface (HDMI) specification was first released in December 2002. Our SteelVinetm storage architecture was first released in September 2004. Accordingly, we face risks and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in new and rapidly evolving markets. If we do not successfully address these risks and difficulties, our results of operations could be negatively affected. We have a history of losses and may not sustain profitability. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we generated net income of $49.5 million. However, prior to 2005, we incurred net losses in each fiscal year since our inception, including net losses of $0.3 million and $12.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Accordingly, we may not sustain profitability. Our annual and quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly and are difficult to predict. Our annual and quarterly operating results are likely to vary significantly in the future based on a number of factors over which we have little or no control. These factors include, but are not limited to: • the growth, evolution and rate of adoption of industry standards for our key markets, including digital-ready PCs and displays, consumer electronics and storage devices and systems; • the fact that our licensing revenue is heavily dependent on a few key licensing transactions being completed for any given period, the timing of which is not always predictable and is especially susceptible to delay beyond the period in which completion is expected, and our concentrated dependence on a few licensees in any period for substantial portions of our expected licensing revenue and profits; • the fact that our licensing revenue has been uneven and unpredictable over time, and is expected to continue to be uneven and unpredictable for the foreseeable future, resulting in considerable fluctuation in the amount of revenue recognized in a particular quarter; • competitive pressures, such as the ability of competitors to successfully introduce products that are more cost-effective or that offer greater functionality than our products, including integration into their products of functionality offered by our products, the prices set by competitors for their products, and the potential for alliances, combinations, mergers and acquisitions among our competitors; • average selling prices of our products, which are influenced by competition and technological advancements, among other factors; • government regulations regarding the timing and extent to which digital content must be made available to consumers; • the availability of other semiconductors or other key components that are required to produce a complete solution for the customer; usually, we supply one of many necessary components; • the cost of components for our products and prices charged by the third parties who manufacture, assemble and test our products; • fluctuations in the price of our common stock, which drive a substantial portion of our non-cash stock compensation expense; and • the nature and extent of litigation activities, particularly relating to our patent infringement suit against Genesis Microchip and any subsequent legal proceedings related to the matters raised in that suit, and a class action lawsuit against us that was initiated in early 2005. Because we have little or no control over these factors and/or their magnitude, our operating results are difficult to predict. Any substantial adverse change in any of these factors could negatively affect our business and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents Our future annual and quarterly operating results are highly dependent upon how well we manage our business. Our annual and quarterly operating results may fluctuate based on how well we manage our business. Some of these factors include the following: • our ability to manage product introductions and transitions, develop necessary sales and marketing channels, and manage other matters necessary to enter new market segments; • our ability to successfully manage our business in multiple markets such as PC, storage and CE, which may involve additional research and development, marketing or other costs and expenses; • our ability to close licensing deals when expected and make timely deliverables and milestones on which recognition of revenue often depends; • our ability to engineer customer solutions that adhere to industry standards in a timely and cost-effective manner; • our ability to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields and develop automated test programs within a reasonable time frame for our new products; • our ability to manage joint ventures and projects, design services, and our supply chain partners; • our ability to monitor the activities of our licensees to ensure compliance with license restrictions and remittance of royalties; • our ability to structure our organization to enable achievement of our operating objectives and to meet the needs of our customers and markets; • the success of the distribution and partner channels through which we choose to sell our products; and • our ability to manage expenses and inventory levels. If we fail to effectively manage our business, this could adversely affect our results of operations. The licensing component of our business strategy increases business risk and volatility. Part of our business strategy is to license certain of our technology to companies that address markets in which we do not want to directly participate. We signed our first license contract in December 2001 and have limited experience marketing and selling our technology on a licensing basis. There can be no assurance that additional companies will be interested in licensing our technology on commercially favorable terms or at all. We also cannot ensure that companies who license our technology will introduce and sell products incorporating our technology, will accurately report royalties owed to us, will pay agreed upon royalties, will honor agreed upon market restrictions, will not infringe upon or misappropriate our intellectual property and will maintain the confidentiality of our proprietary information. Licensing contracts are complex and depend upon many factors including completion of milestones, allocation of values to delivered items, and customer acceptances. Many of these factors require significant judgments. Licensing revenue could fluctuate significantly from period to period because it is heavily dependent on a few key deals being completed in a particular period, the timing of which is difficult to predict and may not match our expectations. Because of its high margin content, licensing revenue can have a disproportionate impact on gross profit and profitability. Also, generating revenue from licensing arrangements is a lengthy and complex process that may last beyond the period in which efforts begin, and once an agreement is in place, the timing of revenue recognition may be dependent on customer acceptance of deliverables, achievement of milestones, our ability to track and report progress on contracts, customer commercialization of the licensed technology, and other factors. Licensing that occurs in connection with actual or contemplated litigation is subject to risk that the adversarial nature of the transaction will induce non-compliance or non-payment. The accounting rules associated with recognizing revenue from licensing transactions are increasingly complex and subject to interpretation. Due to these factors, the amount of license revenue recognized in any period may differ significantly from our expectations. 22 Table of Contents We face intense competition in our markets, which may lead to reduced revenue from sales of our products and increased losses. The CE, PC and storage markets in which we operate are intensely competitive. These markets are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving standards, short product life cycles and declining selling prices. We expect competition for many of our products to increase, as industry standards become widely adopted and as new competitors enter our markets. Our products face competition from companies selling similar discrete products, and from companies selling products such as chipsets with integrated functionality. Our competitors include semiconductor companies that focus on the display, CE or storage markets, as well as major diversified semiconductor companies, and we expect that new competitors will enter our markets. Current or potential customers, including our own licensees, may also develop solutions that could compete with us, including solutions that integrate the functionality of our products into their solutions. In addition, potential OEM customers may have internal semiconductor capabilities, and may develop their own solutions for use in their products rather than purchasing them from companies such as us. Some of our competitors have already established supplier or joint development relationships with current or potential customers and may be able to leverage their existing relationships to discourage these customers from purchasing products from us or persuade them to replace our products with theirs. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater presence in key markets, better name recognition, access to larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than we do As a result, they may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and customer requirements, or devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products. In particular, well-established semiconductor companies, such as Analog Devices, Intel, National Semiconductor and Texas Instruments, and consumer electronics manufacturers, such as Hitachi, Matsushita, Philips, Sony, Thomson and Toshiba, may compete against us in the future. Some of our competitors could merge, which may enhance their market presence. Existing or new competitors may also develop technologies that more effectively address our markets with products that offer enhanced features and functionality, lower power requirements, greater levels of integration or lower cost. Increased competition has resulted in, and is likely to continue to result in price reductions and loss of market share in certain markets. We cannot assure you that we can compete successfully against current or potential competitors, or that competition will not reduce our revenue and gross margins. Our success depends in part on demand for our new SteelVine storage products. Our growth depends in part on market acceptance of our new product offerings based on our SteelVine architecture. These products may not achieve the desired level of market acceptance in the anticipated timeframes. We anticipate that the products based upon our SteelVine architecture will be sold into markets where we have limited experience. Furthermore, there is no established market for these products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully market and sell the products based upon the SteelVine architecture and failure to do so would adversely affect our business. Our success depends in part on the success of our new integrated HDMI DTV products. Our future growth depends in part on the success of our highly integrated Digital TV System On a Chip solutions currently sampling in the market and which may or may not contribute significantly to our overall CE revenue. These products are subject to significant competition from established companies that have been selling these kinds of products for longer periods of time than Silicon Image. Demand for our consumer electronics products is dependent on the adoption and widespread use of the HDMI specification. Our success in the consumer electronics market is largely dependent upon the rapid and widespread adoption of the HDMI specification, which combines high-definition video and multi-channel audio in one digital interface and uses our patented underlying transition minimized differential signaling (TMDS®) technology, and optionally Intel’s HDCP technology, as the basis for the interface. Version 1.0 of the specification was published for adoption in December 2002, Version 1.1 of the specification was published for adoption in May 2004, and Versions 1.2 and 23 Table of Contents 1.2a were published for adoption in August and December 2005, respectively. We cannot predict the rate at which manufacturers will adopt the HDMI specification. Adoption of the HDMI specification may be affected by the availability of consumer products, such as DVD players and televisions, and of computer components that implement this new interface. Other competing specifications may also emerge that could adversely affect the acceptance of the HDMI specification. Delays in the widespread adoption of the HDMI specification could reduce acceptance of our products, limit or reduce our revenue growth and increase our losses. We believe that the adoption of our CE products may be affected in part by U.S. and international regulations relating to digital television, cable, satellite and over-the-air digital transmissions, specifically regulations relating to the transition from analog to digital television. The FCC has adopted rules governing the transition from analog to digital television, which include rules governing the requirements for television sets sold in the United States designed to speed the transition to digital television. The FCC has delayed such requirements and timetables for phasing in digital television in the past. We cannot predict whether the FCC will further delay its rules relating to the digital television requirements and timetables. In the event that additional regulatory activities, either in the United States or internationally, delay or postpone the transition to digital television beyond the anticipated time frame, that could reduce the demand for our CE products. In addition, we believe that the rate of HDMI adoption may be accelerated by FCC rules and EICTA (Europe) and CASBAA (Asia) recommendations discussed in the “Promotion of Industry Standards” section above. However, in the case of the FCC, we cannot predict whether these rules will be amended prior to completion of the phase-in dates or that such phase-in dates will not be delayed. In addition, we cannot guarantee that the FCC will not in the future reverse these rules or adopt rules requiring or supporting different interface technologies, either of which would adversely affect our business. In the case of the EICTA and CASBAA recommendations, we cannot predict the rate at which manufacturers will implement the HDMI-related recommendations in their products. Transmission of audio and video from source devices (such as a DVD player or STB) to sink devices (such as an HDTV) over HDMI with HDCP represents a combination of new technologies working in concert. Cable and satellite system operators are just beginning to require transmissions of digital video with HDCP between source and sink devices in consumer homes, and DVD players incorporating this technology have only recently come to market. Complexities with these technologies and the variability in implementations between manufacturers may cause some of these products to work incorrectly, or for the transmissions to not occur correctly, or for certain products not to be interoperable. Also, the user experience associated with audiovisual transmissions over HDMI with HDCP is unproven, and users may reject products incorporating these technologies or they may require more customer support than expected. Delays or difficulties in integration of these technologies into products or failure of products incorporating this technology to achieve market acceptance could have an adverse effect on our business. Our success depends in part on strategic relationships. We have entered into strategic partnerships with third parties. For example, we have entered into a relationship with Sunplus which includes licensing and development agreements. Under these agreements, Sunplus licenses our technology and we and Sunplus jointly develop products. While these strategic partnerships are designed to drive revenue growth and adoption of our technologies and industry standards promulgated by us and also reduce our research and development expenses, there is no guarantee that these strategic partnerships will be successful. Negotiating and performing under these strategic partnerships involves significant time and expense; we may not realize anticipated increases in revenue, standards adoption or cost savings; and these strategic partnerships may make it easier for the third parties to compete with us; any of which may have a negative effect our business and results of operations. We do not have long-term commitments from our customers and we allocate resources based on our estimates of customer demand. Substantially all of our sales are made on the basis of purchase orders, rather than long-term agreements. In addition, our customers may unilaterally cancel or reschedule purchase orders. We purchase inventory components and build our products according to our estimates of customer demand. This process requires us to make multiple assumptions, including volume and timing of customer demand for each product, manufacturing yields and product 24 Table of Contents quality. If we overestimate customer demand or product quality or under estimate manufacturing yields, we may build products that we may not be able to sell at an acceptable price, when we expect or at all. As a result, we would have excess inventory, which would increase our losses. As an example, we may be expected to purchase inventory components and contract for services for a unique product design for a customer that may not ever be put into production by that potential customer or may be put into production later or in smaller quantities than we anticipate. Additionally, if we underestimate customer demand or if sufficient manufacturing capacity is unavailable, we could forego revenue opportunities or incur significant costs for rapid increases in production, lose market share and damage our customer relationships. Our lengthy sales cycle can result in a delay between incurring expenses and generating revenue, which could harm our operating results. Because our products are based on new technology and standards, a lengthy sales process, typically requiring several months or more, is often required before potential customers begin the technical evaluation of our products. This technical evaluation can exceed nine months before the potential customer informs us whether we have achieved a design win, which is not a binding commitment to purchase our products. After achieving a design win, it can then be an additional nine months before a customer commences volume shipments of systems incorporating our products, if at all. Given our lengthy sales cycle, we may experience a delay between the time we incur expenditures and the time we generate revenue, if any. As a result, our operating results could be seriously harmed if a significant customer reduces or delays orders, or chooses not to release products incorporating our products. We depend on a few key customers and the loss of any of them could significantly reduce our revenue. Historically, a relatively small number of customers and distributors have generated a significant portion of our revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2005, shipments to World Peace International, an Asian distributor, generated 17.2% of our revenue and shipments to Microtek, a distributor, generated 10.6% of our revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2004, shipments to World Peace International generated 15% of our revenue, and shipments to Microtek generated 12% of our revenue. In addition, an end-customer may buy through multiple distributors, contract manufacturers, and/or directly, which could create an even greater concentration. We cannot be certain that customers and key distributors that have accounted for significant revenue in past periods, individually or as a group, will continue to sell our products and generate revenue. As a result of this concentration of our customers, our results of operations could be negatively affected if any of the following occurs: • one or more of our customers, including distributors, becomes insolvent or goes out of business; • one or more of our key customers or distributors significantly reduces, delays or cancels orders; or • one or more significant customers selects products manufactured by one of our competitors for inclusion in their future product generations. Due to our participation in multiple markets, our customer base has broadened significantly and we therefore anticipate being less dependent on a relatively small number of customers to generate revenue. However, as product mix fluctuates from quarter to quarter, we may become more dependent on a small number of customers or a single customer for a significant portion of our revenue in a particular quarter, the loss of which could adversely affect our operating results. We sell our products through distributors, which limits our direct interaction with our customers, therefore reducing our ability to forecast sales and increasing the complexity of our business. Many original equipment manufacturers rely on third-party manufacturers or distributors to provide inventory management and purchasing functions. Distributors generated 52% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2005, 45% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2004, and 42% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2003. Selling through distributors reduces our ability to forecast sales and increases the complexity of our business, requiring us to: • manage a more complex supply chain; 25 Table of Contents • monitor and manage the level of inventory of our products at each distributor; • estimate the impact of credits, return rights, price protection and unsold inventory at distributors; and • monitor the financial condition and credit-worthiness of our distributors, many of which are located outside of the United States, and the majority of which are not publicly traded. Since we have limited ability to forecast inventory levels at our end customers, it is possible that there may be significant build-up of inventories in the retail channel, with the OEM or the OEM’s contract manufacturer. Such a buildup could result in a slowdown in orders, requests for returns from customers, or requests to move out planned shipments. This could adversely impact our revenues and profits. Any failure to manage these challenges could disrupt or reduce sales of our products and unfavorably impact our financial results. Our success depends on the development and introduction of new products, which we may not be able to do in a timely manner because the process of developing high-speed semiconductor products is complex and costly. The development of new products is highly complex, and we have experienced delays, some of which exceeded one year, in the development and introduction of new products on several occasions in the past. We have recently introduced new storage products for the consumer and small to medium business markets and we expect to introduce new consumer electronics, storage and PC products in the future. As our products integrate new, more advanced functions, they become more complex and increasingly difficult to design, manufacture and debug. Successful product development and introduction depends on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: • accurate prediction of market requirements and evolving standards, including enhancements or modifications to existing standards such as DVI, HDCP, SATA I and SATA II, and HDMI; • identification of customer needs where we can apply our innovation and skills to create new standards or areas for product differentiation that improve our overall competitiveness either in an existing market or in a new market; • development of advanced technologies and capabilities, and new products that satisfy customer requirements; • competitors’ and customers’ integration of the functionality of our products into their products, which puts pressure on us to continue to develop and introduce new products with new functionality; • timely completion and introduction of new product designs; • management of product life cycles; • use of leading-edge foundry processes and achievement of high manufacturing yields and low cost testing; • market acceptance of new products; and • market acceptance of new architectures like SteelVine. Accomplishing all of this is extremely challenging, time-consuming and expensive and there is no assurance that we will succeed. Product development delays may result from unanticipated engineering complexities, changing market or competitive product requirements or specifications, difficulties in overcoming resource limitations, the inability to license third-party technology or other factors. Competitors and customers may integrate the functionality of our products into their products that would reduce demand for our products. If we are not able to develop and introduce our products successfully and in a timely manner, our costs could increase or our revenue could decrease, both of which would adversely affect our operating results. In addition, it is possible that we may experience delays in generating revenue from these products or that we may never generate revenue from these products. We must work with a semiconductor foundry and with potential customers to complete new product development and to validate manufacturing methods and processes to support volume production and potential re-work. Each of these steps may involve unanticipated difficulties, which could delay product introduction and reduce 26 Table of Contents market acceptance of the product. In addition, these difficulties and the increasing complexity of our products may result in the introduction of products that contain defects or that do not perform as expected, which would harm our relationships with customers and our ability to achieve market acceptance of our new products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve design wins for our planned new products, that we will be able to complete development of these products when anticipated, or that these products can be manufactured in commercial volumes at acceptable yields, or that any design wins will produce any revenue. Failure to develop and introduce new products, successfully and in a timely manner, may adversely affect our results of operations. We have made acquisitions in the past and may make acquisitions in the future, if advisable, and these acquisitions involve numerous risks. Our growth depends upon market growth and our ability to enhance our existing products and introduce new products on a timely basis. One of the ways we develop new products and enter new markets is through acquisitions. In 2001, we completed the acquisitions of CMD and SCL. In April 2003, we acquired Transwarp Networks, Inc. (TWN). We may acquire additional companies or technologies. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to, the following: • difficulty and increased costs in assimilating employees, including our possible inability to keep and retain key employees of the acquired business; • disruption of our ongoing business; • discovery of undisclosed liabilities of the acquired companies and legal disputes with founders or shareholders of acquired companies; • inability to successfully incorporate acquired technology and operations into our business and maintain uniform standards, controls, policies and procedures; • inability to commercialize acquired technology; and • the need to take impairment charges or write-downs with respect to acquired assets. No assurance can be given that our prior acquisitions or our future acquisitions, if any, will be successful or provide the anticipated benefits, or that they will not adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Failure to manage growth effectively and to successfully integrate acquisitions made by us could materially harm our business and operating results. The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry may create constrictions in our foundry, test and assembly capacity. The semiconductor industry is characterized by significant downturns and wide fluctuations in supply and demand. This cyclicality has led to significant fluctuations in product demand and in the foundry, test and assembly capacity of third-party suppliers. Production capacity for fabricated semiconductors is subject to allocation, whereby not all of our production requirements would be met. This may impact our ability to meet demand and could also increase our production costs. Cyclicality has also accelerated decreases in average selling prices per unit. We may experience fluctuations in our future financial results because of changes in industry-wide conditions. We depend on third-party sub-contractors to manufacture, assemble and test nearly all of our products, which reduce our control over the production process. We do not own or operate a semiconductor fabrication facility. We rely on third party semiconductor manufacturing companies overseas to produce the vast majority all of our semiconductor products. We also rely on outside assembly and test services to test all of our semiconductor products. Our reliance on independent foundries, assembly and test facilities involves a number of significant risks, including, but not limited to: • reduced control over delivery schedules, quality assurance, manufacturing yields and production costs; • lack of guaranteed production capacity or product supply; 27 Table of Contents • lack of availability of, or delayed access to, next-generation or key process technologies; and • limitations on our ability to transition to alternate sources if services are unavailable from primary suppliers. In addition, our semiconductor products are assembled and tested by several independent subcontractors. We do not have a long-term supply agreement with all of our subcontractors, and instead obtain production services on a purchase order basis. Our outside sub-contractors have no obligation to supply products to us for any specific period of time, in any specific quantity or at any specific price, except as set forth in a particular purchase order. Our requirements represent a small portion of the total production capacity of our outside foundries, assembly and test facilities and our sub-contractors may reallocate capacity to other customers even during periods of high demand for our products. These foundries may allocate or move production of our products to different foundries under their control, even in different locations, which may be time consuming, costly, and difficult, have an adverse affect on quality, yields, and costs, and require us and/or our customers to re-qualify the products, which could open up design wins to competition and result in the loss of design wins and design-ins. If our subcontractors are unable or unwilling to continue manufacturing our products in the required volumes, at acceptable quality, yields and costs, and in a timely manner, our business will be substantially harmed. As a result, we would have to identify and qualify substitute contractors, which would be time-consuming, costly and difficult. This qualification process may also require significant effort by our customers, and may lead to re-qualification of parts, opening up design wins to competition, and loss of design wins and design-ins. Any of these circumstances could substantially harm our business. In addition, if competition for foundry, assembly and test capacity increases, our product costs may increase and we may be required to pay significant amounts or make significant purchase commitments to secure access to production services. The complex nature of our production process, which can reduce yields and prevent identification of problems until well into the production cycle or, in some cases, after the product has been shipped. The manufacture of semiconductors is a complex process, and it is often difficult for semiconductor foundries to achieve acceptable product yields. Product yields depend on both our product design and the manufacturing process technology unique to the semiconductor foundry. Since low yields may result from either design or process difficulties, identifying problems can often only occur well into the production cycle, when an actual product exists that can be analyzed and tested. Further, we only test our products after they are assembled, as their high-speed nature makes earlier testing difficult and expensive. As a result, defects often are not discovered until after assembly. This could result in a substantial number of defective products being assembled and tested or shipped, thus lowering our yields and increasing our costs. These risks could result in product shortages or increased costs of assembling, testing or even replacing our products. Although we test our products before shipment, they are complex and may contain defects and errors. In the past we have encountered defects and errors in our products. Because our products are sometimes integrated with products from other vendors, it can be difficult to identify the source of any particular problem. Delivery of products with defects or reliability, quality or compatibility problems, may damage our reputation and our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers. In addition, product defects and errors could result in additional development costs, diversion of technical resources, delayed product shipments, increased product returns, warranty and product liability claims against us that may not be fully covered by insurance. Any of these circumstances could substantially harm our business. We face foreign business, political and economic risks because a majority of our products and our customers’ products are manufactured and sold outside of the United States. A substantial portion of our business is conducted outside of the United States. As a result, we are subject to foreign business, political and economic risks. Nearly all of our products are manufactured in Taiwan or elsewhere in Asia, and for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, 74%, 72%, and 74% of our revenue respectively was generated from customers and distributors located outside of the United States, primarily in Asia. 28 Table of Contents We anticipate that sales outside of the United States will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenue in future periods. Accordingly, we are subject to international risks, including, but not limited to: • difficulties in managing from afar; • political and economic instability, including international tension in Iraq, Korea and the China Strait and lack of normal diplomatic relationships between the United States and Taiwan; • less developed infrastructures in newly industrializing countries; • susceptibility of foreign areas to terrorist attacks; • susceptibility to interruptions of travel, including those due to international tensions (including the war in and occupation of Iraq), medical issues such as the SARS and Avian Flu epidemics (particularly affecting the Asian markets we serve), and the financial instability and bankruptcy of major air carriers; • bias against foreign, especially American, companies; • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • expense and difficulties in protecting our intellectual property in foreign jurisdictions; • difficulties in complying with multiple, conflicting and changing laws and regulations, including export requirements, tariffs, import duties, visa restrictions, environmental laws and other barriers; • exposure to possible litigation or claims in foreign jurisdictions; and • competition from foreign-based suppliers and the existence of protectionist laws and business practices that favor these suppliers, such as withholding taxes on payments made to us. These risks could adversely affect our business and our results of operations. In addition, original equipment manufacturers that design our semiconductors into their products sell them outside of the United States. This exposes us indirectly to foreign risks. Because sales of our products are denominated exclusively in United States dollars, relative increases in the value of the United States dollar will increase the foreign currency price equivalent of our products, which could lead to a change in the competitive nature of these products in the marketplace. This in turn could lead to a reduction in sales and profits. The success of our business depends upon our ability to adequately protect our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, mask work and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies. We have been issued patents and have a number of pending patent applications. However, we cannot assure you that any patents will be issued as a result of any applications or, if issued, that any claims allowed will protect our technology. In addition, we do not file patent applications on a worldwide basis, meaning we do not have patent protection in some jurisdictions. It may be possible for a third-party, including our licensees, to misappropriate our copyrighted material or trademarks. It is possible that existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented and effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in foreign countries. It may be possible for a third-party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology without authorization, develop similar technology independently or design around our patents in the United States and in other jurisdictions. It is also possible that some of our existing or new licensing relationships will enable other parties to use our intellectual property to compete against us. Legal actions to enforce intellectual property rights tend to be lengthy and expensive, and the outcome often is not predictable. As a result, despite our efforts and expenses, we may be unable to prevent others from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property, which could harm our business. In addition, practicality also limits our assertion of intellectual property rights. Patent litigation is expensive and its results are often unpredictable. Assertion of intellectual property rights often results in counterclaims for perceived violations of the defendant’s intellectual property rights and/or antitrust claims. Certain parties after receipt of an assertion of infringement will cut off all commercial relationships with the party making the assertion, thus making assertions against suppliers, customers, and key business partners risky. If we forgo making such claims, we may run the risk of creating legal and equitable defenses for an infringer. 29 Table of Contents Our participation in the Digital Display Working Group requires us to license some of our intellectual property for free, which may make it easier for others to compete with us in the DVI PC market. We are a promoter of the DDWG, which published and promotes the DVI specification. Our strategy includes establishing the DVI specification as the industry standard, promoting and enhancing this specification and developing and marketing products based on this specification and future enhancements. As a result: • we must license for free specific elements of our intellectual property to others for use in implementing the DVI specification; and • we may license additional intellectual property for free as the DDWG promotes enhancements to the DVI specification. Accordingly, companies that implement the DVI specification in their products can use specific elements of our intellectual property for free to compete with us. Our participation as a founder in the working group developing HDMI requires us to license some of our intellectual property, which may make it easier for others to compete with us in the market. In April 2002, together with Sony, Philips, Thomson, Toshiba, Matsushita and Hitachi, we announced the formation of a working group to define the next-generation digital interface specification for consumer electronics products. Version 1.0 of the specification was published for adoption on December 9, 2002. The HDMI specification combines high-definition video and multi-channel audio in one digital interface and uses Silicon Image’s patented underlying TMDS® technology, optionally, along with Intel’s HDCP as the basis for the interface. The founders of the working group have signed a founder’s agreement in which each commits to license certain intellectual property to each other, and to adopters of the specification. Our strategy includes establishing the HDMI specification as the industry standard, promoting and enhancing this specification and developing and marketing products based on this specification and future enhancements. As a result: • we must license specific elements of our intellectual property to others for use in implementing the HDMI specification; and • we may license additional intellectual property as the HDMI founders group promotes enhancements to the HDMI specification. Accordingly, companies that implement the HDMI specification in their products can use specific elements of our intellectual property to compete with us. Although there will be license fees and royalties associated with the adopters agreements, there can be no assurance that such license fees and royalties will adequately compensate us for having to license our intellectual property. Fees and royalties received during the early years of adoption will be used to cover costs we incur to promote the HDMI standard and to develop and perform interoperability tests; in addition, after an initial period, the HDMI founders may reallocate the license fees and royalties amongst themselves to reflect each founder’s relative contribution of intellectual property to the HDMI specification. Our success depends on managing our relationship with Intel. Intel has a dominant role in many of the markets in which we compete, such as PCs and storage, and is a growing presence in the CE market. We have a multi-faceted relationship with Intel that is complex and requires significant management attention, including: • Intel and we have been parties to business cooperation agreements; • Intel and we are parties to a patent cross-license; • Intel and we worked together to develop HDCP; • an Intel subsidiary has the exclusive right to license HDCP, of which we are a licensee; • Intel and we were two of the promoters of the Digital Display Working Group (DDWG); 30 Table of Contents • Intel and we are two of the promoters of the Unified Display Interface Working Group; • Intel is a promoter of the serial ATA working group, of which we are a contributor; • Intel is a supplier to us and a customer for our products; • we believe that Intel has the market presence to drive adoption of serial ATA by making them widely available in its chipsets and motherboards, which could affect demand for our products; • we believe that Intel has the market presence to affect adoption of HDMI by either endorsing complementary technology or promulgating a competing standard, which could affect demand for our products; • Intel may potentially integrate the functionality of our products, including Fibre Channel, serial ATA, DVI, or HDMI into its own chips and chipsets, thereby displacing demand for some of our products; • Intel may design new technologies that would require us to re-design our products for compatibility, thus increasing our R&D expense and reducing our revenue; • Intel’s technology, including its 845G chipset, may lower barriers to entry for other parties who may enter the market and compete with us; and • Intel may enter into or continue relationships with our competitors that can put us at a relative disadvantage. Our cooperation and competition with Intel can lead to positive benefits, if managed effectively. If our relationship with Intel is not managed effectively, it could seriously harm our business, negatively affect our revenue, and increase our operating expenses. We have granted Intel rights with respect to our intellectual property, which could allow Intel to develop products that compete with ours or otherwise reduce the value of our intellectual property. We entered into a patent cross-license agreement with Intel in which each of us granted the other a license to use the patents filed by the grantor prior to a specified date, except for identified types of products. We believe that the scope of our license to Intel excludes our current products and anticipated future products. Intel could, however, exercise its rights under this agreement to use our patents to develop and market other products that compete with ours, without payment to us. Additionally, Intel’s rights to our patents could reduce the value of our patents to any third-party who otherwise might be interested in acquiring rights to use our patents in such products. Finally, Intel could endorse competing products, including a competing digital interface, or develop its own proprietary digital interface. Any of these actions could substantially harm our business and results of operations. We have been and may continue to become the target of securities class action suits and derivative suits which could result in substantial costs and divert management attention and resources. Securities class action suits and derivative suits are often brought against companies, particularly technology companies, following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. Defending against these suits, even if meritless, can result in substantial costs to us and could divert the attention of our management. We and certain of our officers and directors, together with certain investment banks, have been named as defendants in a securities class action suit filed against us on behalf of purchasers of our securities between October 5, 1999 and December 6, 2000. It is alleged that the prospectus related to our initial public offering was misleading because it failed to disclose that the underwriters of our initial public offering had solicited and received excessive commissions from certain investors in exchange for agreements by investors to buy our shares in the aftermarket for predetermined prices. Due to inherent uncertainties in litigation, we cannot accurately predict the outcome of this litigation; however, a proposed settlement has been negotiated and has received preliminary approval by the Court. This settlement will not require Silicon Image to pay any settlement amounts nor issue any securities. In the event that the settlement is not granted final approval, we believe that these claims are without merit and we intend to defend vigorously against them. We and certain of our officers were named as defendants in a securities class action captioned “Curry v. Silicon Image, Inc., Steve Tirado, and Robert Gargus,” commenced on January 31, 2005. Plaintiffs filed the action on behalf of a putative class of shareholders who purchased Silicon Image stock between October 19, 2004 and January 24, 31 Table of Contents 2005. The lawsuit alleged that we and certain of our officers and directors made alleged misstatements of material facts and violated certain provisions of Sections 20(a) and 10(b) of the Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder. On April 27, 2005, the Court issued an order appointing lead plaintiff and approving the selection of lead counsel. On July 27, 2005, plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended complaint (“CAC”). The CAC no longer named Mr. Gargus as an individual defendant, but added Dr. David Lee as an individual defendant. The CAC also expanded the class period from June 25, 2004 to April 22, 2005. Defendants filed a motion to dismiss the CAC on September 26, 2005. Plaintiffs subsequently received leave to file, and did file, a second consolidated amended complaint (“Second CAC”) on December 8, 2005. The Second CAC extends the end of the class period from April 22, 2005 to October 13, 2005 and adds additional factual allegations under the same causes of action against us, Mr. Tirado and Dr. Lee. The complaint also adds a new plaintiff, James D. Smallwood. Defendants filed a motion to dismiss the Second CAC on February 9, 2006 and that motion is currently scheduled to be heard on June 9, 2006. We are currently engaged in intellectual property litigation that is time-consuming and expensive to prosecute. We may become engaged in additional intellectual property litigation that could be time-consuming, may be expensive to prosecute or defend, and could adversely affect our ability to sell our product. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States and in other jurisdictions involving patents and other intellectual property rights. This litigation is particularly prevalent in the semiconductor industry, in which a number of companies aggressively use their patent portfolios to bring infringement claims. In addition, in recent years, there has been an increase in the filing of so-called “nuisance suits,” alleging infringement of intellectual property rights. These claims may be asserted as counterclaims in response to claims made by a company alleging infringement of intellectual property rights. These suits pressure defendants into entering settlement arrangements to quickly dispose of such suits, regardless of merit. In addition, as is common in the semiconductor industry, from time to time we have been notified that we may be infringing certain patents or other intellectual property rights of others. Responding to such claims, regardless of their merit, can be time consuming, result in costly litigation, divert management’s attention and resources and cause us to incur significant expenses. As each claim is evaluated, we may consider the desirability of entering into settlement or licensing agreements. No assurance can be given that settlements will occur or that licenses can be obtained on acceptable terms or that litigation will not occur. In the event there is a temporary or permanent injunction entered prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain of our products, or a successful claim of infringement against us requiring us to pay damages or royalties to a third-party, and we fail to develop or license a substitute technology, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In 2001, we filed a suit in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia against Genesis Microchip Corp. and Genesis Microchip, Inc. (collectively, “Genesis”) for infringement of our U.S. patent number 5,905,769 (Case No.: CA-01-266-R). In 2002, we added a claim for infringement of our U.S. patent number 5,974,464. In December 2002, the parties entered into an agreement that apparently settled the case. The agreement was reflected in a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU), which contemplated, among other things, the execution of a more detailed “definitive agreement” by December 31, 2002. Disputes arose, however, regarding the interpretation of certain terms of the MOU, and the parties were unable to conclude a definitive agreement. The parties’ disputes were brought before the court, and on July 15, 2003, the court held that the MOU constituted a binding settlement agreement, and that our interpretation of the MOU was correct. Thereafter, the court ordered Genesis to make certain payments described in the MOU to the Court’s escrow account, and on December 19, 2003, the court entered judgment based on its July 15, 2003 ruling. Genesis appealed the judgment to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit on January 16, 2004. On January 28, 2005, the Federal Circuit dismissed Genesis’ appeal for lack of jurisdiction, holding that the judgment below was not final and appealable. Specifically, the Court of Appeals found that the parties’ agreement to settle the case, as embodied in the MOU, required that Genesis pay us, rather than the district court’s escrow account, certain of the payments described in the MOU. The case was remanded to the district court, where the parties subsequently agreed to a stipulated order whereby the funds held by the district court were transferred to Silicon Image, under restrictions, until appeals are exhausted. On July 22, 2005, based on the stipulated order, the court dismissed the case with prejudice. Genesis filed 32 Table of Contents a renewed appeal to the Federal Circuit, asserting among other things that the district court erred in its interpretation of the MOU, that the MOU (as interpreted by the court) constitutes patent misuse, and that the district court erred in construing certain claim terms in the asserted patents. A hearing on that appeal is scheduled for April 5, 2006, and a ruling is expected within two to three months thereafter. Any potential intellectual property litigation against us could also force us to do one or more of the following: • stop selling products or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property; • attempt to obtain a license to the relevant intellectual property, which license may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; and • attempt to redesign products that contain the allegedly infringing intellectual property. If we take any of these actions, we may be unable to manufacture and sell our products. We may be exposed to liability for monetary damages, the extent of which would be very difficult to accurately predict. In addition, we may be exposed to customer claims, for potential indemnity obligations, and to customer dissatisfaction and a discontinuance of purchases of our products while the litigation is pending. Any of these consequences could substantially harm our business and results of operations. We have entered into, and may again be required to enter into, patent or other intellectual property cross-licenses. Many companies have significant patent portfolios or key specific patents, or other intellectual property in areas in which we compete. Many of these companies appear to have policies of imposing cross-licenses on other participants in their markets, which may include areas in which we compete. As a result, we have been required, either under pressure of litigation or by significant vendors or customers, to enter into cross licenses or non-assertion agreements relating to patents or other intellectual property. This permits the cross-licensee, or beneficiary of a non-assertion agreement, to use certain or all of our patents and/or certain other intellectual property for free to compete with us. We must attract and retain qualified personnel to be successful, and competition for qualified personnel is increasing in our market. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued contributions of our key management, technical and sales personnel, many of who would be difficult to replace. The loss of one or more of these employees could harm our business. Although we have entered into a limited number of employment contracts with certain executive officers, we generally do not have employment contracts with our key employees. We do not have key person life insurance for any of our key personnel. Our success also depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain qualified technical, sales, marketing, finance and managerial personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is particularly intense in our industry and in our location. This makes it difficult to retain our key personnel and to recruit highly qualified personnel. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining candidates with appropriate qualifications. To be successful, we need to hire candidates with appropriate qualifications and retain our key executives and employees. Replacing departing executive officers and key employees can involve organizational disruption and uncertain timing. The volatility of our stock price has had an impact on our ability to offer competitive equity-based incentives to current and prospective employees, thereby affecting our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical personnel. If these adverse conditions continue, we may not be able to hire or retain highly qualified employees in the future and this could harm our business. In addition, regulations adopted by The NASDAQ National Market requiring shareholder approval for all stock option plans, as well as regulations adopted by the New York Stock Exchange prohibiting NYSE member organizations from giving a proxy to vote on equity compensation plans unless the beneficial owner of the shares has given voting instructions, could make it more difficult for us to grant options to employees in the future. In addition, SFAS No. 123R, Share Based Payments, which comes into effect on January 1, 2006, will require us to record compensation expense for options granted to employees. To the extent that new regulations make it more difficult or expensive to grant options to employees, we may incur increased cash 33 Table of Contents compensation costs or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, either of which could harm our business. We use contractors to provide services to us, which often involves contractual complexity, tax and employment law compliance, and being subject to audits and other governmental actions. We have been audited for our contracting policies in the past, and may be in the future. Burdening our ability to freely use contractors to provide services to us may increase the expense of obtaining such services, and/or require us to discontinue using contractors and attempt to find, interview, and hire employees to provide similar services. Such potential employees may not be available in a reasonable time, or at all, or may not be hired without undue cost. We have experienced transitions in our management team, our board of directors and our independent registered public accounting firm in the past and may continue to do so in the future. We have experienced a number of transitions with respect to our board of directors, executive officers, and our independent registered public accounting firm in recent quarters, including the following: • In January 2005, Steve Laub (who replaced David Lee in November 2004) resigned from the positions of chief executive officer and president and from the board of directors, Steve Tirado was appointed as chief executive officer and president and to the board as well, and Chris Paisley was appointed chairman of the board of directors. • In February 2005, Jaime Garcia-Meza was appointed as vice president of our storage business. • In April 2005, Robert C. Gargus retired from the position of chief financial officer and Darrel Slack was appointed as his successor. • In April 2005, four of our then independent outside directors, David Courtney (chairman of the audit committee), Keith McAuliffe, Chris Paisley (chairman of the board) and Richard Sanquini, resigned from our board of directors and board committees. • In April 2005, Darrel Slack, our then chief financial officer, was elected to our board of directors. • In May 2005, Masood Jabbar and Peter Hanelt were elected to our board of directors. • In June 2005, David Lee did not stand for re-election as a director at our annual meeting of stockholders, and accordingly, Dr. Lee resigned from our board of directors. • In June 2005, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP resigned as our independent registered public accounting firm. In July 2005, we appointed Deloitte & Touche LLP as our new independent registered public accounting firm. • In August 2005, Darrel Slack began a personal leave of absence. • In August 2005, Dale Brown resigned from the positions of chief accounting officer and corporate controller. • In August 2005, Robert Freeman was appointed as interim chief financial officer and chief accounting officer . • In September 2005, Darrel Slack resigned from the position of chief financial officer and from our board of directors and the board of directors of HDMI Licensing, LLC, our wholly-owned subsidiary. • In October 2005, William George was elected to our board of directors. • In October 2005, Robert Bagheri resigned from the position of executive vice president of operations. • In October 2005, Ahmad Ghaemmaghami was appointed as interim executive vice president of operations. • In October 2005, John LeMoncheck, then vice president, consumer electronics and PC/display, left Silicon Image. 34 Table of Contents • In October 2005, John Shin was appointed as interim vice president, consumer electronics and PC/display and subsequently became VP of Worldwide Engineering consolidating all engineering within his organization. • In November 2005, Robert Freeman’s position changed from interim chief financial officer to chief financial officer. • In December 2005, William Raduchel was elected to our board of directors. • In January 2006, Peter Rado was appointed as vice president of worldwide operations and quality. • In January 2006, Dale Zimmerman was appointed as our vice president of worldwide marketing. • In February 2006, John Hodge was elected to our board of directors. Such past and future transitions may continue to result in disruptions in our operations and require additional costs. Industry cycles may strain our management and resources. Cycles of growth and contraction in our industry may strain our management and resources. To manage these industry cycles effectively, we must: • improve operational and financial systems; • train and manage our employee base; • successfully integrate operations and employees of businesses we acquire or have acquired; • attract, develop, motivate and retain qualified personnel with relevant experience; and • adjust spending levels according to prevailing market conditions. If we cannot manage industry cycles effectively, our business could be seriously harmed. Our operations and the operations of our significant customers, third-party wafer foundries and third-party assembly and test subcontractors are located in areas susceptible to natural disasters. Our operations are headquartered in the San Francisco Bay Area, which is susceptible to earthquakes, and the operations of CMD, which we acquired, are based in the Los Angeles area, which is also susceptible to earthquakes. TSMC, the outside foundry that produces the majority of our semiconductor products, is located in Taiwan. Advanced Semiconductor Engineering, or ASE, one of the subcontractors that assembles and tests our semiconductor products, is also located in Taiwan. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 customers and distributors located in Taiwan generated 25%, 25% and 34% of our revenue, respectively, and customers and distributors located in Japan generated 22%, 20%, and 15% of our revenue, respectively. Both Taiwan and Japan are susceptible to earthquakes, typhoons and other natural disasters. Our business would be negatively affected if any of the following occurred: • an earthquake or other disaster in the San Francisco Bay Area or the Los Angeles area damaged our facilities or disrupted the supply of water or electricity to our headquarters or our Irvine facility; • an earthquake, typhoon or other disaster in Taiwan or Japan resulted in shortages of water, electricity or transportation, limiting the production capacity of our outside foundries or the ability of ASE to provide assembly and test services; • an earthquake, typhoon or other disaster in Taiwan or Japan damaged the facilities or equipment of our customers and distributors, resulting in reduced purchases of our products; or • an earthquake, typhoon or other disaster in Taiwan or Japan disrupted the operations of suppliers to our Taiwanese or Japanese customers, outside foundries or ASE, which in turn disrupted the operations of these 35 Table of Contents customers, foundries or ASE and resulted in reduced purchases of our products or shortages in our product supply. Changes in environmental rules and regulations could increase our costs and reduce our revenue. Several jurisdictions are considering whether to implement rules that would require that certain products, including semiconductors, be made lead-free. We anticipate that some jurisdictions may finalize and enact such requirements. Some jurisdictions are also considering whether to require abatement or disposal obligations for products made prior to the enactment of any such rules. Although several of our products are available to customers in a lead-free condition, most of our products are not lead-free. Any requirement that would prevent or burden the development, manufacture or sales of lead-containing semiconductors would likely reduce our revenue for such products and would require us to incur costs to develop substitute lead-free replacement products, which may take time and may not always be economically or technically feasible, and may require disposal of non-compliant inventory. In addition, any requirement to dispose or abate previously sold products would require us to incur the costs of setting up and implementing such a program. Provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control, and may reduce the market price of our common stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable. These provisions include: • authorizing the issuance of preferred stock without stockholder approval; • providing for a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms; • requiring advance notice of stockholder nominations for the board of directors; • providing the board of directors the opportunity to expand the number of directors without notice to stockholders; • prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; • requiring super-majority voting to amend some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws; • limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; and • prohibiting stockholder actions by written consent. Provisions of Delaware law also may discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us. The price of our stock fluctuates substantially and may continue to do so. The stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market valuation of many technology companies, including Silicon Image. These factors, as well as general economic and political conditions, may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock in the future. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly and may continue to fluctuate in response to a number of factors, including, but not limited to: • actual or anticipated changes in our operating results; • changes in expectations of our future financial performance; • changes in market valuations of comparable companies in our markets; • changes in market valuations or expectations of future financial performance of our vendors or customers; • changes in our key executives and technical personnel; and • announcements by us or our competitors of significant technical innovations, design wins, contracts, standards or acquisitions. 36 Table of Contents Due to these factors, the price of our stock may decline. In addition, the stock market experiences volatility that is often unrelated to the performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may cause our stock price to decline regardless of our performance. Continued terrorist attacks or war could lead to further economic instability and adversely affect our operations, results of operations and stock price. The United States has taken, and continues to take, military action against terrorism and has engaged in war with Iraq and currently has an occupation force there and in Afghanistan. In addition, the current nuclear arms crises in North Korea and Iran could escalate into armed hostilities or war. Acts of terrorism or armed hostilities may disrupt or result in instability in the general economy and financial markets and in consumer demand for the OEM’s products that incorporate our products. Disruptions and instability in the general economy could reduce demand for our products or disrupt the operations of our customers, suppliers, distributors and contractors, many of whom are located in Asia, which would in turn adversely affect our operations and results of operations. Disruptions and instability in financial markets could adversely affect our stock price. Armed hostilities or war in South Korea could disrupt the operations of the research and development contractors we utilize there, which would adversely affect our research and development capabilities and ability to timely develop and introduce new products and product improvements. We indemnify certain of our licensing customers against infringement. We indemnify certain of our licensing agreements customers for any expenses or liabilities resulting from third-party claims of infringements of patent, trademark, trade secret, or copyright rights by the technology we license. Certain of these indemnification provisions are perpetual from execution of the agreement and, in some instances; the maximum amount of potential future indemnification is not limited. To date, we have not paid any such claims or been required to defend any lawsuits with respect to any claim. In the event that we were required to defend any lawsuits with respect to our indemnification obligations, or to pay any claim, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If we are unable to successfully address the material weakness in our internal controls as described in Item 9A in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. Such report must contain, among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. Such report must also contain a statement that our auditors have issued an attestation report on management’s assessment of such internal controls. Management’s report is included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K under Item 9A. As of December 31, 2005, management concluded that a material weakness exists as we did not maintain effective controls to correctly compute the excess tax benefit relating to stock options exercised, which resulted in us recording a material adjustment in the 2005 financial statements that affected the provision for income taxes and stockholders’ equity. Because of this material weakness, management concluded that we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005. Management has identified the steps necessary to address the material weaknesses described above, and has begun to execute remediation plans, as discussed in Item 9A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If we are unable to successfully address the material weakness in our internal controls, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected. As a result, current and potential stockholders and other third parties could lose confidence in our financial reporting which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. 37 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 