ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. You should also refer to the other information in this annual report, including the information incorporated by reference into this annual report. The risks and uncertainties we describe below are those that we currently believe may materially affect us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of or that we currently deem immaterial also may become important factors that affect us. Risks Related to Our Business We are a development stage company with a history of insignificant revenues and significant net losses. All of our product candidates are in the developmental stage, and we expect continued net losses for the foreseeable future and we may never become profitable. We are a development stage company, and we have not yet generated significant revenues. From our inception in July 1991 to December 31, 2005, we have incurred net losses of approximately $109.5 million, including net losses of approximately $19.7 million in 2005, almost all of which consisted of research and development, clinical trials and general and administrative expenses. We expect to continue to spend significant additional amounts for the foreseeable future to fund our research and development activities, including the clinical trials for our lead VEGF-2 product candidate, and other product candidates. In addition, we do not expect to generate revenues from sales for a number of years, if at all. As a result, we expect our net losses from operations to continue for at least the next four years. Our ability to generate revenues and become profitable will depend on our ability, alone or with collaborators, to timely, efficiently and successfully complete the development of our product candidates, conduct pre-clinical and clinical tests, obtain necessary regulatory approvals, and manufacture and market our product candidates. We may never generate profits and, even if we do achieve profitability, we cannot predict the level or sustainability of such profitability. We will need substantial additional funding to develop our lead VEGF-2 product candidate and other product candidates and for our future operations. The development of our VEGF-2 product candidates, including our lead product candidate for the treatment of severe angina, will require a commitment of substantial funds to conduct the costly and time-consuming research, pre-clinical and clinical testing necessary to obtain regulatory approvals and bring our product candidates to market. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the progress of our research and development programs; 18 Table of Contents • the progress, scope and results of our pre-clinical and clinical testing; • the time and cost involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; • the cost of manufacturing our product candidates; • the cost of prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights; • the cost of commercializing our product candidates; • market acceptance of products; • ability to secure adequate product reimbursement; • competing technological and market developments; and • our ability to establish and maintain collaborative and other arrangements with third parties to assist in bringing our product candidates to market and the cost of such arrangements. We will need to raise substantial additional capital to fund our future operations. We cannot be certain that additional financing will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. To the extent we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our existing stockholders will be diluted. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of debt securities, these securities are likely to have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our common stock and preferred stock. Moreover, we may enter into financing transactions at prices that represent a substantial discount to market price. A negative reaction by investors and securities analysts to any discounted sale of our equity securities could result in a decline in the trading price of our common stock. Failure to successfully address ongoing liquidity requirements will have a material adverse effect upon our business. In the event that we are unable to obtain additional capital on acceptable terms, we will be required to take actions that will harm our business and our ability to achieve cash flow in the future, including possibly the surrender of our rights to some technologies or product candidates, delaying our clinical trials or curtailing or ceasing operations. Treatment in our lead VEGF-2 product candidate clinical trial has been suspended, is under FDA clinical hold, and it is uncertain when or if such clinical hold will be removed. On March 14, 2006, we temporarily suspended patient treatments in the GENASIS clinical trial. Boston Scientific requested the voluntary suspension as a result of three recently reported serious adverse events of pericardial effusion. Subsequent to our advising the FDA of such voluntary suspension, we were notified by the FDA that the FDA had placed the GENASIS trial on clinical hold. Due to such clinical hold, we are required to cease further patient enrollment. At present, we are not able to determine when the FDA clinical hold will be removed, if at all. Because the GENASIS trial is testing the safety and efficacy of our lead product candidate, any delay in the trial could have serious and significant negative effects to our business. Our lead VEGF-2 product candidate must still undergo exhaustive clinical testing and may not prove to be safe or effective. If this product candidate is delayed or fails, we may have to curtail our operations. There are many reasons that potential drug products that appear promising at an early stage of research or development do not result in commercially successful products. Clinical trials may be suspended or 19 Table of Contents terminated if safety issues are identified, if our investigators or we fail to comply with regulations governing clinical trials or for other reasons. We cannot guarantee that our GENASIS trial will be released from clinical hold or that we or the FDA will not suspend or terminate the GENASIS trial in the future, that adequate numbers of patients can be recruited for this or subsequent clinical trials, or that the results of the GENASIS trial will warrant further development. The FDA, institutional review boards and/or institutional biosafety committees at the medical institutions and healthcare facilities where we sponsor clinical trials may suspend any trial indefinitely if they find deficiencies in the conduct of these trials. The FDA and institutional review boards may also require large numbers of patients, and the FDA may require that we repeat a clinical trial. The results of the GENASIS trial might not demonstrate the safety or efficacy of our lead product candidate. Even if clinical trials are successful, we might not obtain regulatory approval for this product candidate. Clinical data can be interpreted in many different ways, and FDA officials could interpret data that we consider promising differently, which could halt or delay our clinical trials or prevent regulatory approval. If we are not successful in commercializing our lead VEGF-2 product candidate, or are significantly delayed in doing so, our business will be materially harmed and we may need to curtail or cease operations. In the past, our Phase I/II clinical trial was suspended, and even if our new FDA hold is released, we cannot assure that the GENASIS trial will not be suspended in the future. In February 2000, our Phase I/II clinical trial for our lead product candidate was placed on clinical hold by the FDA. Following the death of an 18-year old patient enrolled in an unrelated gene therapy study using a viral vector to deliver the genetic material, the FDA undertook extensive reviews of gene therapy clinical trials in the United States to evaluate compliance with clinical trial monitoring procedures. Based on the FDA review and issues identified by the FDA regarding the conduct of our trial, we were required to cease further patient enrollment and the administration of our lead product candidate in the clinical trial until we addressed those issues and provided data and information to allow the FDA to assess the risks to patients and remove the Phase I/IIa study from clinical hold. Patient complications or other serious adverse events that may occur in the field of gene therapy in the future may result in stricter clinical trial oversight and potential regulatory delays relating to our lead VEGF-2 product candidate for severe angina, which would harm our ability to commercialize this product candidate or generate revenues. All of our VEGF-2 product candidates require additional research, development, testing and regulatory approvals prior to marketing. If our product candidates are delayed or fail, our financial condition will be negatively affected, and we may have to curtail or cease our operations. We are in the early stage of product development. We currently do not sell any products and do not expect to have any product candidates commercially available for several years, if at all. Our proposed product candidates require additional research and development, clinical testing and regulatory clearances prior to marketing. There are many reasons that our proposed product candidates may fail or not advance beyond clinical testing, including the possibility that: • our proposed product candidates may be ineffective, unsafe or associated with unacceptable side effects; • our proposed product candidates may fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals or otherwise fail to meet applicable regulatory standards; • our proposed product candidates may be too expensive to develop, manufacture or market; • physicians, patients, third-party payers or the medical community in general may not accept or use our proposed product candidates; 20 Table of Contents • our collaborators may withdraw support for or otherwise impair the development and commercialization of our proposed product candidates; • other parties may hold or acquire proprietary rights that could prevent us or our collaborators from developing or marketing our proposed product candidates; or • others may develop equivalent or superior products candidates. In addition, our proposed product candidates are subject to the risks of failure inherent in the development of gene therapy products based on innovative technologies. As a result, we are not able to predict whether our research, development and testing activities will result in any commercially viable products or applications. To our knowledge, the FDA has not approved any gene therapy products. If our product candidates are delayed or we fail to successfully develop and commercialize our product candidates, our financial condition may be negatively affected, and we may have to curtail or cease our operations. No VEGF-2 gene therapy products have been developed or approved. All of our product candidates, including our lead VEGF-2 product candidate for the treatment of severe refractory angina, utilize the Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor 2, or VEGF-2. The use of VEGF-2 to induce therapeutic angiogenesis is a relatively untested approach and has not yet been used by us or others to successfully develop any FDA-approved products. We may fail to produce an approved product based on our VEGF-2 gene therapy approach, which would materially harm our business. If our GENASIS Phase IIb clinical trial results are unsatisfactory, this may cast doubt on the viability of our VEGF-2 gene therapy approach and all of our product candidates. Because we cannot predict whether or when we will obtain regulatory approval to commercialize our product candidates, we cannot predict the timing of any future revenue from these product candidates. We cannot commercialize any of our product candidates to generate revenue until the appropriate regulatory authorities have reviewed and approved the applications for the product candidates. We cannot assure you that the regulatory agencies will complete their review processes in a timely manner or that we will obtain regulatory approval for any product candidate we or our collaborators develop. Satisfaction of regulatory requirements typically takes many years, is dependent upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. Outside the United States, the ability to market a product is also contingent upon receiving clearances from appropriate foreign regulatory authorities. In addition, we may experience delays or rejections based upon additional government regulation from future legislation or administrative action or changes in FDA policy during the period of product development, clinical trials and FDA regulatory review. If the delays are significant, they would negatively affect our financial results, ability to raise capital and our commercial prospects for future product candidates. We may not successfully establish and maintain collaborative and licensing arrangements, which could adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates. We are also limited by the collaboration and marketing arrangements on which we rely. Our strategy for the development, testing, manufacturing and commercialization of our proposed product candidates relies on establishing and maintaining collaborations with corporate partners, licensors and other third parties. At present, we have licenses from Human Genome Sciences, Inc., Caritas St. Elizabeth’s Medical Center, Inc., Boston Scientific Corporation and Vical Incorporated relating to the use and delivery of our VEGF-2 product candidates. We also have a collaboration arrangement with Boston Scientific in which they participate in the development of our VEGF-2 product candidates for the 21 Table of Contents treatment of diseases of the heart and peripheral vascular system and have exclusive rights to market and distribute such products upon any regulatory approval. We may not be able to maintain or expand these licenses and collaborations or establish additional licensing and collaboration arrangements necessary to develop and commercialize our proposed product candidates. Even if we are able to maintain or establish licensing or collaboration arrangements, these arrangements may not be on favorable terms. Any failure to maintain or establish licensing or collaboration arrangements on favorable terms could adversely affect our business prospects, financial condition or ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates. Additionally, the terms of our collaboration agreements may restrict our ability to develop, test or market our product candidates. For example, our collaboration agreement with Boston Scientific prohibits us from entering into any development, distribution or similar agreement with respect to VEGF-2 product candidates for diseases of the heart or peripheral vascular system with third parties. The agreement also prohibits us from using any injection catheter other than Boston Scientific’s Stiletto™ catheter in clinical trails for our VEGF-2 product candidate. In addition, we currently have a distribution agreement with Boston Scientific that provides Boston Scientific with exclusive distribution rights for our proposed VEGF-2 product candidates for diseases of the heart or peripheral vascular system if and when such products have been approved and are ready for marketing. We rely on third parties to manufacture our VEGF-2 product candidates and the catheters used to deliver the products. There can be no guarantee that we can obtain sufficient and acceptable quantities of our product candidates or the catheters on acceptable terms, which may delay or impair our ability to develop, test and market such product candidates. We currently do not have any manufacturing capabilities. Our business strategy relies on third parties to manufacture and produce our VEGF-2 product candidates and the catheters used to deliver the products in accordance with good manufacturing practices established by the FDA. We rely on Boehringer Ingelheim for the production of VEGF-2 materials and on Boston Scientific for the supply of catheters to deliver our VEGF-2 product candidates. These third party manufacturers are subject to extensive government regulation and must receive FDA approval before they can produce clinical material or commercial product. Regulatory difficulties experienced by Boston Scientific, Boehringer Ingelheim, or others could affect our ability to obtain products and catheters when needed. Our product candidates may be subject to delays if third party manufacturers give other products greater priority than our product candidates. These third parties may also not deliver sufficient quantities of our product candidates or the catheters, manufacture our product candidates or the catheters in accordance with specifications, or comply with applicable government regulations. Additionally, if the manufactured product candidates or the catheters fail to perform as specified, our business and reputation could be severely impacted. We have entered into a manufacturing agreement with Boehringer Ingelheim for the production of additional VEGF-2 materials for our planned Phase III clinical trial for severe angina and any commercial use. There is a risk that the manufacturer will not be able to successfully produce our product candidates on acceptable terms, or on a timely or cost-effective basis, or that the manufacturer will be able to manufacture our product candidates in accordance with our product specifications. In the GENASIS trial and other trials that we anticipate for coronary heart disease, our VEGF-2 product candidate is being tested together with Boston Scientific’s Stiletto™ endocardial direct injection catheter system. Our product candidate cannot be licensed or if licensed for coronary heart disease, cannot be used, unless the Stiletto™ catheter is also licensed. We have no control over the Stiletto™ catheter. Thus, we are dependent on the actions of both the FDA and Boston Scientific in connection with the licensing of the Stiletto™ catheter. On January 25, 2006 the FDA issued a Corporate Warning Letter to Boston Scientific identifying what the FDA termed serious regulatory problems involving Boston Scientific’s 22 Table of Contents medical devices. While the medical devices at issue did not include the Stiletto™ catheter and although the Stiletto™ catheter for our Phase III trial will not be produced at facilities mentioned in the Corporate Warning Letter, the letter raises the risk that regulatory issues between the FDA and Boston Scientific may adversely affect our trials and the commercialization of our product candidate. Additionally, Boston Scientific requested the voluntary suspension of our GENASIS trial as a result of three reported serious adverse events of pericardial effusion. In response to our notification to the FDA of such suspension, the FDA placed our GENASIS trial on clinical hold pending an investigation. We are uncertain when or if the clinical hold will be removed. Additionally, in the event we are unable to address any concerns that may arise out of the FDA clinical hold relating to our delivery mechanism, we may not be able to conduct future clinical trials, commercialize and market our therapeutic with the Stiletto™ catheter. Significant delays or changes in delivery methods may adversely affect our financial results and the commercial prospects for our product candidates and delay our ability to become profitable. We depend on clinical trial arrangements with medical institutions to advance our technology, and the loss of these arrangements could impair the development of our product candidates. We have arrangements with approximately 30 medical institutions for the conduct of the GENASIS trial for our lead VEGF-2 product candidate. The early termination of any of these clinical trial arrangements or the failure of these institutions to comply with the regulations and requirements governing clinical trials would hinder the progress of our clinical trial program. If any of these relationships are terminated, the GENASIS trial might not be completed, and the results might not be able to be evaluated. If we are unable to maintain agreements with third parties to perform sales, marketing and distribution functions, we will be required to develop these capabilities to commercialize our proposed product candidates. We currently have no sales, marketing or distribution capabilities. Therefore, to commercialize our product candidates, if and when such products have been approved and are ready for marketing, we must collaborate with third parties to perform these functions. We have granted exclusive sales, marketing and distribution rights for our VEGF-2 product candidates for diseases of the heart and peripheral vascular system to Boston Scientific. However, Boston Scientific might, at its discretion, limit the amount of resources and time it devotes to marketing our product candidates or terminate its agreement with us at any time and for any reason regardless of the terms of the agreement. Because our revenues will be dependent upon Boston Scientific’s sales and marketing efforts and the prices it charges for our product candidates, any failure by Boston Scientific to devote sufficient resources to our product candidates will limit our revenues and ability to become profitable. In the event that Boston Scientific no longer acts as a distributor or if we have products that they do not choose to distribute, we cannot assure you that we would be able to enter into similar arrangements with another company to commercialize our product candidates. We have no experience in developing, training or managing a sales force, and we will incur substantial additional expenses if we are forced to market our product candidates directly. Developing a marketing and sales force is also time consuming and could delay launch of our product candidates. In addition, we will compete with many companies that currently have extensive and well-funded marketing and sales operations. Our marketing and sales efforts may be unable to compete successfully against these companies. 23 Table of Contents If we do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements in the manufacture and distribution of our product candidates, we may incur penalties that may inhibit our ability to commercialize our product candidates and adversely affect our revenue. Our failure or the failure of our collaborators or third party manufacturers to comply with applicable FDA or other regulatory requirements including manufacturing, quality control, labeling, safety surveillance, promoting and reporting may result in criminal prosecution, civil penalties, recall or seizure of our product candidates, total or partial suspension of production or an injunction, as well as other regulatory action against our product candidates or us. Discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, supplier, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on the sale of our product candidates, including a withdrawal of the product candidates from the market. If we are unable to attract and retain key employees and advisors, our ability to obtain financing, pursue collaborations or develop our product candidates may be adversely affected. Our future success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management and scientific and regulatory personnel and advisors. To pursue our business strategy, we will need to hire or otherwise engage qualified scientific personnel and managers, including personnel with expertise in clinical trials, government regulation and manufacturing. Competition for qualified personnel is intense among companies, academic institutions and other organizations. If we are unable to attract and retain key employees and advisors, it may negatively affect our ability to successfully develop, test and commercialize our product candidates. We depend on a few key executives, and the loss of their services could cause a material adverse effect to our company. We do not maintain “key person” life insurance policies on any of those executives. As a result, we are not insured against the losses resulting from the death of our key executives. We use hazardous and biological materials in our business. Any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be time consuming and costly. Our processes and our collaborators’ processes involve the controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous and biological materials and waste products. We and our suppliers and other collaborators are subject to federal, state and local regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of materials and waste products. Even if we and these suppliers and collaborators comply with the standards prescribed by law and regulation, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from hazardous materials cannot be eliminated. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result, and any liability could exceed the limits or fall outside the coverage of our insurance and exceed our financial resources. We may not be able to maintain insurance that covers hazardous materials on acceptable terms, or at all. We may incur significant costs or be unable to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations. We have entered, and may in the future enter, into agreements allowing third parties to use VEGF-2 for their own clinical trials, which if unsuccessful or subject to adverse effects could damage our ability to successfully conclude our trial and commercialize our own product candidates. We have entered, and may in the future enter, into agreements or arrangements with third parties allowing them to conduct trials of VEGF-2 for other indications. For example, we have recently granted rights to Caritas St. Elizabeth’s to use VEGF-2 in its Phase I clinical trials for the treatment of critical limb ischemia and diabetic neuropathy. It is possible that these additional trials that we do not sponsor or conduct could result in negative findings or adverse effects, which could cause us to be liable for damages, could adversely affect our ability to obtain commercial licenses in our own trials, and could overshadow the possible positive results of the GENASIS trial. 24 Table of Contents We are exposed to potential risks resulting from Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are evaluating our internal controls to allow management to report on, and our independent registered certified public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We may encounter unexpected delays in implementing the requirements relating to internal controls; therefore, we cannot be certain about the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact that these activities will have on our operations since there is no precedent available by which to measure the adequacy of our compliance. We also expect to incur additional expenses and diversion of management’s time as a result of performing the system and process evaluation, testing and remediation required in order to comply with the management certification and independent registered certified public accounting firm attestation requirements. If we are not able to timely comply with the requirements set forth in Section 404, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities. Any such action could adversely affect our business and financial results. The requirement to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 is expected to become effective, at the earliest, for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2006. In addition, in our system of internal controls we may rely on the internal controls of third parties. In our evaluation of our internal controls, we will consider the implication of our reliance on the internal controls of third parties. Until we have completed our evaluation, we are unable to determine the extent of our reliance on those controls, the extent and nature of the testing of those controls, and remediation actions necessary where that reliance cannot be adequately evaluated and tested. Risks Related to Intellectual Property If our right to use the VEGF-2 technology or other intellectual property we license from third parties is terminated or adversely affected, our financial condition, operations or ability to develop and commercialize our proposed product candidates will be materially harmed. We do not own any patents and have not filed any patent applications. We rely on licenses to use certain technologies that are material to our operations, both to have freedom to carry out our business and to protect our market from competitors. In particular, we license patents, patent applications and other intellectual property from Human Genome Sciences for the use of the VEGF-2 gene in our product candidates for vascular and cardiovascular disease and diabetic neuropathy. We have also obtained a license to use certain patents and patent applications from Vical relating to gene therapy delivery methods in connection with the use of VEGF-2 for gene therapy and from Caritas St. Elizabeth’s and Boston Scientific relating to stimulation of growth of new blood vessels. The success of our operations will depend in part on our ability and that of our licensors to: • obtain patent protection for our methods of gene therapy, therapeutic genes and/or gene-delivery methods both in the United States and in other countries with substantial markets; • defend patents once obtained against third party infringers; • maintain trade secrets and operate without infringing patents and proprietary rights of others; and • obtain and maintain appropriate licenses upon reasonable terms to patents or proprietary rights held by others that are necessary or useful to us in commercializing our technology, both in the United States and in other countries with substantial markets. In addition, the license agreements with Human Genome Sciences and Vical include certain milestones that we must meet in order to maintain these licenses. There is no assurance that we can meet such 25 Table of Contents upcoming milestones in either license or that we can obtain any necessary extensions of the milestones in the future from either Human Genome Sciences or Vical. Our licensors may terminate these licenses if we fail to meet the applicable milestones. If Human Genome Sciences or Vical elects to terminate their licenses to us, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected, and we may have to curtail or cease operations. Further, if Human Genome Sciences terminates the license to use the VEGF-2 technology for failure to meet the applicable milestones, we must grant Human Genome Sciences a license to all data and information generated by us under the license agreement. If our distribution agreement with Boston Scientific is terminated, then we will lose our license for certain intellectual property that is licensed to us thereunder only while Boston Scientific is our distributor. If we or our licensors are not able to obtain and maintain adequate patent protection for our product candidates, we may be unable to commercialize our product candidates or to prevent others from using our technology in competitive products. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain patent protection both in the United States and in other countries for our product candidates and their use. We have no patents in our own name. We have, however, licensed patents and patent applications and other proprietary rights from third parties that cover our product candidates. Our ability to protect our product candidates from unauthorized or infringing use by third parties depends at least initially on the willingness and cooperation of our licensors to assert the patent rights licensed to us. Due to evolving legal standards relating to the patentability, validity and enforceability of patents covering biotechnology inventions and the scope of claims made under these patents, the ability of our licensors to obtain and enforce patents is uncertain and involves complex legal and factual considerations. Accordingly, rights under any issued patents may not provide us with sufficient protection for our product candidates or provide sufficient protection to afford us a commercial advantage against our competitors or their competitive products or processes. In addition, we cannot guarantee that any patents will be issued from any pending or future patent applications licensed to us. Even if issued, we cannot guarantee that the claims of these patents are, or will be, valid or enforceable, or provide us with any significant protection against competitive products or otherwise be commercially valuable to us. In addition, others may challenge, seek to invalidate, infringe or circumvent any patents or patent applications we license, and rights we receive under those patents or patent applications may not provide competitive advantages to us. Further, the manufacture, use or sale of our product candidates may infringe the patent rights of others. We may not have identified all patents, published applications or published literature that affect our business either by blocking our ability to commercialize our drugs, by negatively impacting the patentability of our product candidates to our licensees, or by disclosing the same or similar technologies on which basis our licensors’ patents may not be valid, limit the scope of our or our licensors’ future patent claims or adversely affect our ability to market our product candidates. For example, patent applications in the United States are maintained in confidence for up to 18 months after the filing of their earliest priority application. In some cases, however, patent applications, such as those filed prior to November 29, 2000, remain confidential in the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, for the entire time prior to issuance as a U.S. patent. Similarly, patent applications filed in foreign countries are typically published 18 months after the filing date of their earliest priority application. Publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries. Therefore, we cannot be certain that our licensors were the first to invent, or the first to file, patent applications covering our product candidates or their use. In the event that a third party has also filed a U.S. patent application covering our product candidates or a similar invention, we may have to participate in an adversarial proceeding, known as an interference, in the USPTO to determine priority of invention in the United States. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial, and our efforts could be unsuccessful, resulting in a loss of our U.S. patent position. The laws of some foreign jurisdictions do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as in the United States and many companies have 26 Table of Contents encountered significant difficulties in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. If we or our licensors encounter such difficulties in protecting or are otherwise precluded from effectively protecting our intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions, our business prospects could be substantially harmed. Several biotechnology companies and research institutions have filed patent applications or received patents that cover our technologies or technologies similar to ours. These patent applications or patents may conflict with patents or patent applications that we have licensed, either by claiming the same gene or similar sequences or by claiming methods that could dominate those licensed to us. For instance, we licensed patent rights from Human Genome Sciences covering the VEGF-2 gene and its use in gene therapy. We are aware that Genentech, Inc. and the Ludwig Institute and Helsinki University Licensing Ltd. have filed a number of patent applications, and have received patents, in the United States, Europe and other countries, including countries in which Human Genome Sciences has not filed patent applications, that cover aspects of VEGF-2 technology. In particular, both Genentech and Ludwig/Helsinki are pursuing claims directed to VEGF-2 protein, gene, gene fragments, constructs and their medical uses in various countries. A number of opposition proceedings currently are ongoing in Australia and Europe. In Australia, Human Genome Sciences has opposed two of Ludwig/Helsinki’s granted patents. Both oppositions are currently in the briefing stage. Human Genome Sciences has also opposed Genentech’s Australian patent. The opposition has been briefed and scheduled for a hearing at the Australian Patent Office in March 2006. Ludwig/Helsinki have opposed Human Genome Sciences’ Australian patent. The opposition has been briefed and the parties are waiting for the Australian Patent Office to set a date for the hearing. In Europe, Human Genome Sciences and Genentech has each opposed Ludwig/Helsinki’s granted patent. Also in Europe, Human Genome Sciences and Ludwig/Helsinki have each opposed Genentech’s granted European patent. The European Patent Office has set February 24, 2006 as the final date for submission of evidence before Oral Proceedings, which will be held in April 2006. Human Genome Sciences may fail to initiate patent opposition proceedings in other countries or may be unsuccessful in any foreign proceeding attempting to prevent the issuance of, revoke or limit the scope of patents issued to Ludwig/Helsinki and Genentech. Moreover, Ludwig/Helsinki or Genentech may make additional challenges to Human Genome Sciences’ patents or patent applications in Australia, Europe, the United States or elsewhere. If Human Genome Sciences is unsuccessful in its foreign opposition proceedings or if an interference or patent litigation is commenced in the United States against Human Genome Sciences or us that affects our right to use VEGF-2, and if we do not succeed in those proceedings, then our sales, if any, of VEGF-2 may be held to infringe the patent rights of Ludwig/Helsinki or Genentech. In such event, we would not have the right to make, use or sell VEGF-2 in one or more countries in the absence of a license from Ludwig/Helsinki and/or Genentech. We may be unable to obtain such a license on commercially acceptable terms or at all. Our license from Human Genome Sciences provides that we are required to reimburse Human Genome Sciences for 50% of its patent prosecution costs, which may include costs of international opposition proceedings. We expect the costs of the currently pending proceedings to increase significantly during the next several years and, accordingly, these reimbursement obligations are expected to be substantial. We anticipate that additional litigation or proceedings may be necessary or may be initiated to enforce any patents we license, or to determine the scope, validity and enforceability of other parties’ proprietary rights and the priority of an invention. Any of these activities could result in substantial costs or delays to us. The outcome of any of these proceedings may significantly affect our products and technology. Our licensors, including Human Genome Sciences, are primarily responsible for patent prosecution activities, including opposition proceedings. As a result, we generally do not have the ability to institute or determine the conduct of patent proceedings unless our licensors elect not to institute or to abandon such proceedings. If our licensors elect to institute and prosecute patent proceedings, our rights will depend in part upon the manner in which these licensors conduct the proceedings. These licensors may 27 Table of Contents not vigorously pursue or defend or may decide to settle such proceedings on terms that are unfavorable to us. An adverse outcome of these proceedings could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties or require us to cease using such technology, any of which could adversely affect our business. Moreover, the mere uncertainty resulting from the initiation and continuation of any technology related litigation or adversarial proceeding could adversely affect our business pending resolution of the disputed matters. We may not have adequate protection for our unpatented proprietary information, which could adversely affect our competitive position. We also rely on unpatented trade secrets and know-how to maintain our competitive position, which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants and others. These parties may breach or terminate these agreements, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Our trade secrets may also be independently discovered by competitors. We rely on certain technologies to which we do not have exclusive rights or which may not be patentable or proprietary and thus may be available to competitors. Risks Related to Our Industry Negative public opinion and increased regulatory scrutiny of gene therapy and genetic research may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business or obtain regulatory approvals for our product candidates. Ethical, social and legal concerns about gene therapy and genetic research could result in additional regulations restricting or prohibiting the products and processes we may use. Even with the requisite approvals, the commercial success of our product candidates will depend in part on public acceptance of the use of gene therapies for the treatment of human disease. Public attitudes may be influenced by claims that gene therapy is unsafe, and gene therapy may not gain the acceptance of the public or the medical community. More restrictive government regulations or negative public opinion would have a negative effect on our business or financial condition and may delay or impair the development and commercialization of our product candidates. We are subject to significant government regulation with respect to our product candidates. Compliance with government regulation can be a costly and time-consuming process, with no assurance of ultimate regulatory approval. If these approvals are not obtained, we will not be able to sell our product candidates. We and our collaborators are subject to extensive and rigorous government regulation in the United States and foreign countries. The FDA, the National Institutes of Health and comparable agencies in foreign countries impose many requirements on the introduction of new pharmaceutical products through lengthy and detailed clinical testing procedures and other costly and time consuming compliance procedures. These requirements vary widely from country to country and make it difficult to estimate when our product candidates will be commercially available, if at all. In addition, gene therapies such as those being developed by us are relatively new and are only beginning to be tested in humans. Regulatory authorities may require us or our collaborators to demonstrate that our product candidates are improved treatments relative to other therapies or may significantly modify the requirements governing gene therapies, which could result in regulatory delays or rejections. If we are delayed or fail to obtain required approvals for our product candidates, our operations and financial condition would be damaged. We may not sell our product candidates without applicable regulatory approvals. 28 Table of Contents Numerous regulations in the United States and abroad also govern the manufacturing, safety, labeling, storage, record keeping, reporting and marketing of our product candidates. Compliance with these regulatory requirements is time consuming and expensive. If we fail to comply with regulatory requirements, either prior to approval or in marketing our product candidates after approval, we could be subject to regulatory or judicial enforcement actions. These actions could result in withdrawal of existing approvals, product recalls, injunctions, civil penalties, criminal prosecution, and enhanced exposure to product liabilities. Even if we achieve positive results in early clinical trials, these results do not necessarily predict final results. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after achieving positive results in earlier trials. Negative or inconclusive results or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could cause the FDA or us to terminate a clinical trial or require that we repeat a clinical trial. We face intense competition and must cope with rapid technological change and the possibility that our competitors may develop therapies that are more advanced or effective than ours, which may adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates. Our competitors and potential competitors include large pharmaceutical and medical device companies and more established biotechnology companies. These companies have significantly greater financial and other resources and greater expertise than us in research and development, manufacturing, pre-clinical and clinical testing, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing. Small companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large pharmaceutical companies. Many of these competitors have significant products approved or in development and operate large, well-funded research and development programs. Our potential competitors also include academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations that conduct research, seek patent protection and establish collaborative arrangements for product and clinical development and marketing. We are engaged in gene therapy, which is a rapidly changing field. Existing products and therapies to treat vascular and cardiovascular disease, including drugs and surgical procedures, will compete directly with the products that we are seeking to develop and market. In addition, our competitors may develop more effective or more affordable products, or achieve earlier patent protection or product commercialization and market penetration than us. As these competitors develop their technologies, they may develop proprietary positions that prevent us from successfully commercializing our future products. Additionally, technologies developed by our competitors may render our potential products uneconomical or obsolete, and we may not be successful in marketing our product candidates against competitors. Delays in recruiting clinical trial participants could adversely affect our ability to bring a product to market prior to our competitors. Our competitive position and those of our competitors can vary based on the performance of products in clinical trials. In addition, our competitors may obtain patent protection or FDA approval and commercialize products more rapidly than we do, which may impact possible future sales of our product candidates. We also may not have the access that some of our competitors have to biological materials necessary to support the research, development or manufacturing of planned therapies. If we are permitted by the FDA to commence commercial sales of products, we will also be competing with respect to marketing capabilities and manufacturing efficiency, areas in which we have limited or no experience. We expect that competition among products approved for sale will be based, among other things, on: • product efficacy; 29 Table of Contents • price; • safety; • reliability; • availability; • ease of administration and delivery; • patent protection; and • sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. Our competitive position also depends upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, develop proprietary products or processes, and secure sufficient funding for the often-lengthy period between product conception and commercial sales. We cannot assure that we will be able to compete successfully in the marketplace or achieve any market acceptance of our product candidates. We face the risk of product liability claims, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our operations will expose us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of gene therapy products and could prevent or delay the commercialization of our product candidates or negatively affect our financial condition. Regardless of the merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in withdrawal of proposed product candidates from clinical trials, costs of litigation, and substantial monetary awards to plaintiffs and decreased demand for products. Product liability may result from harm to patients using our product candidates as a result of mislabeling, misuse or product failure. While we require all patients enrolled in our clinical trials to sign consents, which explain the risks involved with participating in the trial, the consents provide only a limited level of protection. Additionally, we indemnify the clinical centers and related entities in connection with losses they may incur through their involvement in the clinical trials. Product liability insurance is expensive and we may not be able to maintain our product liability coverage on acceptable terms or obtain adequate coverage against potential liabilities. We are presently engaged in litigation arising from a death in an earlier clinical trial. We are a defendant in a complaint filed in the Superior Court of Suffolk County in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts alleging wrongful death and product liability claims in connection with the death of a patient enrolled in our clinical trial at Caritas St. Elizabeth’s. The complaint alleges, in part, that the deceased patient should have been excluded from our clinical trial because his condition was treatable by conventional revascularization procedures, that the deceased patient did not receive sufficient disclosure of risks and an alleged financial conflict of interest to provide an informed consent to treatment and that we are vicariously liable for the conduct and acts of its then principal investigator. We have denied liability and the principal allegations of the complaint. The discovery stage of the litigation has concluded, and the trial has been set for April 2007. No assurances can be given as to the outcome of this action. An unfavorable settlement or decision in this action could negatively affect our operations and financial condition. Any liability resulting from this action may exceed our financial resources. 30 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile, and an investment in our common stock could significantly decline in value. The market prices for securities of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies in general, have been highly volatile and may continue to be highly volatile in the future. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile based on the following factors, in addition to other risk factors described herein and in light of the low volume of trades in our common stock: • developments concerning any research and development, clinical trials, manufacturing, and marketing collaborations; • announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by our competitors or us; • developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents; • publicity regarding actual or potential results relating to medicinal products under development by our competitors or us; • regulatory developments in the United States and other countries; • litigation; • economic and other external factors, including disasters or crises; or • period-to-period fluctuations in financial results. You may have difficulty selling your shares of common stock at or above the price paid for such shares or at the time you would like to sell. We have a low volume of daily trades in our common stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market, which could make it difficult to conduct large transactions in our common stock. In addition, any sales by stockholders of a large number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that the holders of a large number of our shares intend to sell our common stock, may cause a significant reduction in the price of our common stock. In this regard, we have a significant number of shares of common stock underlying outstanding options and warrants that are currently exercisable and eligible for immediate sale in the public market. The issuance of common stock upon the exercise of stock options and warrants would also dilute existing investors. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, causing volatility in our stock price. We do not receive any revenues from sales of our product candidates. Our results of operations historically have fluctuated on a quarterly basis, which we expect to continue. Our results of operations at any given time will be based primarily on the following factors: • the status of development of our product candidates; • whether we enter into additional collaboration agreements and the timing and accounting treatment of payments, if any, to us under those agreements; • whether and when we achieve specified development or commercialization milestones; and • the addition or termination of research programs or funding support 31 Table of Contents We believe that quarterly comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. These fluctuating results may cause the price of our stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially. 