RISK FACTORS The following important factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 20-F or presented elsewhere by management from time to time. OUR NET SALES AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS DEPEND IN SIGNIFICANT PART ON ANTICIPATED DEMAND FOR SEMICONDUCTORS. DEMAND FOR SEMICONDUCTORS IS HIGHLY CYCLICAL AND THE SEMICONDUCTOR MARKET HAS RECENTLY EXPERIENCED A SIGNIFICANT AND SUSTAINED DOWNTURN Capital expenditures of our customers for semiconductor manufacturing equipment depend on the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors and products using semiconductors. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and has suffered significant economic downturns at various times. These downturns have involved periods of production overcapacity, oversupply, reduced prices and low net sales, and have regularly been associated with substantial reductions in capital expenditures for semiconductor facilities and equipment. Due to the lead times associated with the production of semiconductor equipment, a rise or fall in the level of sales of semiconductor equipment typically lags any downturn or recovery in the semiconductor market by approximately nine to twelve months. This cyclicality has had, and is expected to continue to have, a direct effect on our net sales, results of operations and backlog. Downturns in the industry can be severe and protracted and could continue to adversely affect our net sales, results of operations and backlog. OUR QUARTERLY NET SALES AND OPERATING RESULTS FLUCTUATE SIGNIFICANTLY Our quarterly net sales and operating results have varied in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily indicative of future operating results. Factors that have caused our operating results to fluctuate in the past and which are likely to affect us in the future include the following: - - the volatility of the semiconductor industry; - - the length of sales cycles and lead-times associated with our product offerings; - - the timing, size and nature of our transactions; - - the market acceptance of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; - - the timing of new personnel hires and the rate at which new personnel become productive; - - the changes in pricing policies by our competitors; - - the changes in our operating expenses; - - the success of our research and development projects; - - our ability to integrate acquisitions; - - our ability to adjust production capacity on a timely basis to meet customer demand; and - - the fluctuation of foreign currency exchange rates. Because of these factors, investors should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of future performance. In future periods, our results of operations could differ from estimates of public market analysts and investors. Such discrepancies could cause the market price of our securities to decline. OUR BACKLOG AT ANY PARTICULAR DATE MAY NOT BE INDICATIVE OF OUR FUTURE OPERATING RESULTS Our backlog amounted to (euro) 56.8 million at December 31, 2005. During market downturns, semiconductor manufacturers historically have cancelled or deferred additional equipment purchases. The backlog at December 31, 2005 increased by 78.6% compared to backlog as of December 31, 2004. The orders in our backlog are subject to cancellation by the customer at any time upon payment of a negotiated charge. Because of the possibility of changes in delivery schedules, cancellations of orders and potential delays in product shipments, our backlog at any particular date may not be representative of actual sales for any succeeding period. Our current and future dependence on a small number of customers increases the revenue impact of each customer's delay or deferral activity. Our expense levels in future periods will be based, in large part, on our expectations regarding future revenue sources and, as a result, our operating results for any given period in which material orders fail to occur, are delayed or deferred could vary significantly. 5 BECAUSE OF THE LENGTHY AND UNPREDICTABLE SALES CYCLE ASSOCIATED WITH OUR TRANSACTIONS, WE MAY NOT SUCCEED IN CLOSING TRANSACTIONS ON A TIMELY BASIS, IF AT ALL, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR NET SALES AND OPERATING RESULTS Transactions for our products often involve large expenditures, as the average selling price for a substantial portion of the equipment we offer exceeds (euro) 300,000. The sales cycles for these transactions are often lengthy and unpredictable. Factors affecting the sales cycle include: - - customers' capital spending plans and budgetary constraints; - - the timing of customers' budget cycles; and - - customers' internal approval processes. These lengthy sales cycles may cause our net sales and results of operations to vary from period to period and it may be difficult to predict the timing and amount of any variations. We may not succeed in closing such large transactions on a timely basis or at all, which could cause significant variability in our net sales and results of operations for any particular period. A LIMITED NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS HAVE ACCOUNTED FOR A SIGNIFICANT PERCENTAGE OF OUR NET SALES, AND OUR FUTURE NET SALES COULD DECLINE IF WE CANNOT KEEP OR REPLACE THESE CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS Historically, a limited number of our customers has accounted for a significant percentage of our net sales. In 2005, our three largest customers accounted for approximately 27% of our net sales, with the largest customer accounting for approximately 10.6% of our net sales. We anticipate that our results of operations in any given period will continue to depend to a significant extent upon revenues from a small number of customers. In addition, we anticipate that the identity of such customers will continue to vary from year to year, so that the achievement of our long-term goals will require the maintenance of relationships with our existing clients and obtaining additional customers on an ongoing basis. Our failure to enter into, and realize revenue from a sufficient number of contracts during a particular period could have a significant adverse effect on our net sales. WE MAY FAIL TO COMPETE EFFECTIVELY IN OUR MARKET We face substantial competition from established companies, based primarily in Japan, various other Pacific Rim countries and the United States, many of which have greater financial, engineering, manufacturing and marketing resources than we do. We believe that once a semiconductor manufacturer has decided to buy semiconductor assembly equipment from a particular vendor, the manufacturer often continues to use that vendor's equipment in the future. Accordingly, it is often difficult to achieve significant sales to a particular customer once another vendor's products have been installed. Furthermore, some companies have historically developed, manufactured and installed back-end assembly equipment internally, and it may be difficult for us to sell our products to these companies. Most of our principal competitors on a worldwide basis are Japanese, which historically have dominated the Japanese market because Japanese semiconductor manufacturers typically purchase equipment from domestic suppliers. To date, our sales to Japanese customers have been limited. We believe that the limited growth of the Japanese semiconductor industry in recent years has caused our Japanese competitors to intensify their efforts to export their products to other areas of the world, particularly other countries in Asia. As a result, competition in these markets has become increasingly intense. We believe that Japanese suppliers will be our most significant competitors for the foreseeable future due to their strength in the supply of equipment for high-volume, low cost production and their high levels of excess capacity relative to other suppliers. We believe that a decrease in the value of the Japanese yen or the U.S. dollar and U.S. dollar-linked currencies in relation to the euro could lead to intensified price-based competition in our markets resulting in lower prices and margins and could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. We believe that our ability to compete successfully in our markets depends on a number of factors both within and outside our control, including: - - price, product quality and system performance; - - ease of use and reliability of our products; - - manufacturing lead times, including the lead times of our subcontractors; - - cost of ownership; - - success in developing or otherwise introducing new products; and - - market and economic conditions. 6 COMPLIANCE WITH INTERNAL CONTROLS PROCEDURES AND EVALUATIONS AND ATTESTATION REQUIREMENTS MAY BE VERY COSTLY AND RESULT IN THE IDENTIFICATION OF SIGNIFICANT DEFICIENCIES OR MATERIAL WEAKNESSES Beginning in fiscal year 2006, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we will be required, as a foreign private issuer to perform an evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting and have our independent auditor publicly disclose its conclusions regarding such evaluation. We are establishing procedures in order to comply with Section 404 in the timeframe permitted under the regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, although as of the date of this filing we have not yet finalized these procedures. We expect that establishing procedures and ensuring compliance with these requirements will be expensive and time-consuming. If we fail to complete these procedures and the required evaluation in a timely manner, or if our independent auditor cannot attest to our evaluation in a timely manner, we could be subject to regulatory review and penalties which may result in a loss of public confidence in our internal controls. In addition, we may uncover significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls. Measures taken by us to remedy these issues may require significant effort and expense, as well as the commitment of significant managerial resources. Each of these circumstances may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations or on our share price. WE MUST INTRODUCE NEW PRODUCTS IN A TIMELY FASHION AND WE ARE DEPENDENT UPON THE MARKET ACCEPTANCE OF THESE PRODUCTS Our industry is subject to rapid technological change and new product introductions and enhancements. The success of our business strategy and results of operations are largely based upon accurate anticipation of customer and market requirements. Our ability to implement our overall strategy and remain competitive will depend in part upon our ability to develop new and enhanced products and to introduce them at competitive price levels. We must also accurately forecast commercial and technical trends in the semiconductor industry so that our products provide the functions required by our customers and are configured for use in their facilities. We may not be able to respond effectively to technological changes or to specific product announcements by competitors. As a result, the introduction of new products embodying new technologies or the emergence of new industry standards could render our existing products uncompetitive from a pricing standpoint, obsolete or unmarketable. Although we expect to continue to introduce new products in each of our product lines and enhance our existing products, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in developing new or enhanced products in a timely manner or that any new or enhanced products that we introduce will achieve market acceptance. WE ARE LARGELY DEPENDENT UPON OUR INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS We have manufacturing and/or sales and service facilities and personnel in, amongst others, the Netherlands, Austria, Germany, Hungary, Malaysia, Korea, Hong Kong, Singapore, Japan, China, Philippines and the United States and our products are marketed, sold and serviced worldwide. Our operations are subject to risks inherent in international business activities, including, in particular: - - general economic and political conditions in each country; - - the overlap of different tax structures; - - management of an organization spread over various countries; - - currency fluctuations, which could result in increased operating expenses and reduced revenues; - - greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; - - unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; and - - import and export licensing requirements, trade restrictions and changes in tariff and freight rates. In addition, each region in the global semiconductor equipment market exhibits unique characteristics that can cause capital equipment investment patterns to vary significantly from period to period. WE ARE DEPENDENT ON NET SALES FROM CUSTOMERS IN VARIOUS PACIFIC RIM COUNTRIES WHO HAVE EXPERIENCED ECONOMIC DIFFICULTIES IN THE PAST A substantial portion of our net sales are derived from customers in various Pacific Rim countries. Many Pacific Rim countries experienced banking and currency difficulties that have led to economic recessions at times in the recent past. Specifically, fluctuations in the value of Korean and Southeast Asian currencies, together with difficulties in obtaining credit, has resulted periodically in a decline in the purchasing power of our Korean and Southeast Asian customers and has resulted in the cancellation or delay of orders for our products from Korean and Southeast Asian customers. In addition, if Japan's economy were to weaken again, investments by Japanese customers may be negatively affected with potential negative implications for the economies of other Pacific Rim countries. 7 OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS HAVE IN THE PAST AND COULD IN THE FUTURE BE AFFECTED BY CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATE FLUCTUATIONS For the year ended December 31, 2005, the percentage of our consolidated net sales denominated in euro was approximately 47% whereas the percentage of our consolidated net sales represented by U.S. dollars or U.S. dollar-linked currencies was approximately 53%. Approximately 75% of our costs and expenses were denominated in euro for such period. As a result, our results of operations could be adversely affected by fluctuations in the value of the euro against the U.S. dollar. In recent periods, the value of the U.S. dollar has declined significantly in comparison with the euro. We seek to manage our exposure to such fluctuations in part by hedging firmly committed sales contracts denominated in U.S. dollars. While management will continue to monitor our exposure to currency fluctuations and may use financial hedging instruments to minimize the effect of these fluctuations, we cannot assure you that exchange rate fluctuations will not have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. IF WE FAIL TO CONTINUE TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN QUALIFIED PERSONNEL, OUR BUSINESS MAY BE HARMED Our future operating results depend in significant part upon the continued contribution of our senior executive officers and key employees, including a number of specialists with advanced university qualifications in engineering, electronics and computing. In addition, our business and future operating results depend in part upon our ability to attract and retain other qualified management, technical, sales and support personnel for operations. We believe that our ability to increase the manufacturing capacity of our subsidiaries has from time to time been constrained by the limited number of such skilled personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we may not be able to continue to attract and retain such personnel. The loss of any key executive or employee or the inability to attract and retain skilled executives and employees as needed could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS, WHICH COULD MAKE US LESS COMPETITIVE AND CAUSE US TO LOSE MARKET SHARE Although we seek to protect our intellectual property rights through patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and other measures, we cannot assure you that we will be able to protect our technology adequately, that our competitors will not be able to develop similar technology independently, that any of our pending patent applications will be issued, or that intellectual property laws will protect our intellectual property rights. In addition, we operate internationally and intellectual property protection varies among the jurisdictions in which we conduct business. Litigation may be necessary in order to enforce our patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement. Litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. In addition, third parties may seek to challenge, invalidate or circumvent any patent issued to us, the rights granted under any patent issued to us may not provide competitive advantages and third parties may assert that our products infringe patent, copyright or trade secrets of such parties. Furthermore, third parties may independently develop similar products or duplicate our products. If any party is able to successfully claim that our creation or use of proprietary technology infringes upon their intellectual property rights, we may be forced to pay damages. In addition to any damages we may have to pay, a court could require us to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license which may not be available on terms which are favorable to us or may not be available at all. WE ARE SUBJECT TO ENVIRONMENTAL RULES AND REGULATIONS IN A VARIETY OF JURISDICTIONS We are subject to a variety of governmental regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of chemical by-products of, and water used in, our manufacturing processes. Environmental claims or the failure to comply with any present or future regulations could result in the assessment of damages or imposition of fines against us, suspension of production or a cessation of operations. New regulations could require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses. Any failure by us to control the use or adequately restrict the discharge of hazardous substances could subject us to future liabilities. WE MAY ACQUIRE OR MAKE INVESTMENTS IN COMPANIES OR TECHNOLOGIES, ANY OF WHICH COULD DISRUPT OUR ONGOING BUSINESS, DISTRACT OUR MANAGEMENT AND EMPLOYEES, INCREASE OUR EXPENSES AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS As part of our future growth strategy, we may from time-to-time acquire or make investments in companies and technologies. We could face difficulties in integrating personnel and operations from the acquired businesses and in retaining and motivating key personnel from these businesses. In addition, these acquisitions may disrupt our ongoing operations, divert management resources and attention from day-to-day activities, increase our expenses and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, these types of transactions often result in charges to earnings for items such as the amortization of intangible assets or 8 in-process research and development expenses. Any future acquisitions or investments in companies or technologies could involve other risks, including the assumption of additional liabilities, dilutive issuances of equity securities, the utilization of our cash and the incurrence of debt. WE ARE SUBJECT TO PROVISIONS OF DUTCH LAW, WHICH MAY RESTRICT THE ABILITY OF OUR SHAREHOLDERS TO PARTICIPATE IN SOME DECISIONS We are subject to provisions of Dutch law applicable to large companies that, together with some provisions of our Articles of Association, have the effect of concentrating control over significant corporate decisions and transactions in the hands of the Supervisory Board. Under this regime, the Supervisory Board has the power to appoint and dismiss the members of the Board of Management. The members of the Supervisory Board are appointed by the General Meeting of Shareholders, but the Supervisory Board may provide binding nominations for the majority of the members to be appointed. Consequently, this regime may have the effect of delaying or preventing a takeover attempt, including a takeover attempt that might result in a premium over the market price for our ordinary shares. ANTI-TAKEOVER PROVISIONS COULD DELAY OR PREVENT A CHANGE OF CONTROL, INCLUDING A TAKEOVER ATTEMPT THAT MIGHT RESULT IN A PREMIUM OVER THE MARKET PRICE FOR OUR ORDINARY SHARES Our Articles of Association provide for the possible issuance of preference shares. Such shares may be issued pursuant to a resolution of the General Meeting of Shareholders. The General Meeting of Shareholders granted the Board of Management the right to issue preference shares. In April 2000, we established the foundation "Stichting Continuiteit BE Semiconductor Industries", which we refer to as the Foundation, whose board consists of five members, four of whom are independent of BE Semiconductor Industries N.V. We have granted the Foundation a call option pursuant to which the Foundation may purchase up to 55,000,000 preference shares. If the Foundation were to exercise the call option, it may result in delaying or preventing a takeover attempt, including a takeover attempt that might result in a premium over the market price for our ordinary shares. WE MAY IN THE FUTURE BE CONSIDERED A PASSIVE FOREIGN INVESTMENT COMPANY The U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, contains special rules relating to passive foreign investment companies, or PFICs. A U.S. holder who owns stock in a PFIC generally is subject to adverse tax consequences under these rules. These rules do not apply to non-U.S. holders. A company is treated as a PFIC if at least 75% of its gross income for a taxable year consists of "passive income", defined generally as income from passive investments, as opposed to operating income. A company is also treated as a PFIC if the average percentage of the value of its assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income, including cash balances, is at least 50%. There can be no assurance that we will in future years have sufficient revenues from product sales or sufficient non-passive assets to avoid becoming a PFIC. If we were classified as a PFIC, unless a U.S. holder made a timely specific election, a special tax regime would apply to any "excess distribution", which would be the U.S. holder's share of distributions in any year that are greater than 125% of the average annual distributions received by the U.S. holder in the three preceding years or the U.S. holder's holding period, if shorter, and any gain realized on the sale or other disposition of the ordinary shares. Under this regime, any excess distribution and realized gain would be treated as ordinary income and would be subject to tax as if the excess distribution or gain had been realized ratably over the U.S. holder's holding period for the ordinary shares. A U.S. holder will generally be required to pay taxes on the amount allocated to a year at the highest marginal tax rate and pay interest on the prior year's taxes. A U.S. holder may be able to ameliorate the tax consequences somewhat by making a mark-to-market election, or QEF election, that is, an election to have us treated as a qualified electing fund for U.S. federal income tax purposes. You should consult your tax advisor regarding the tax consequences of our classification as a PFIC. PRICE VOLATILITY OF THE ORDINARY SHARES The current market price of our ordinary shares may not be indicative of prices that will prevail in the trading market in the future. In particular, since our initial public offering in December 1995, the market price of our ordinary shares has experienced significant appreciation and, more recently, significant depreciation, as have price levels for equity securities generally and price levels for equity securities of companies associated with the semiconductor industry and other high-technology fields. In addition, since our initial public offering, the market price of the ordinary shares has experienced significant fluctuations, including fluctuations that are unrelated to our performance. We expect that market price fluctuations will continue in the future. 9 