ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business The building products industry is experiencing a severe downturn that may continue for an indefinite period into the future. Because the markets for our building products are heavily dependent on the residential construction and remodeling market, our revenues could decrease as a result of events outside our control that impact home construction and home improvement activity, including economic factors specific to the building products industry. There has been a severe slowing in 2007 and 2008 of new housing starts and in home sales generally. Bank foreclosures have put a large number of homes into the market for sale, effectively limiting some of the incentives to build new homes. The homebuilding industry continued to experience a significant and sustained decrease in demand for new homes and an oversupply of new and existing homes available for sale during 2007 and 2008. While our residential building products business relies upon the home improvement and remodeling markets as well as new construction, we have experienced a slow down in sales activity in 2008. Interest rate increases, limits on credit availability, further foreclosures, home price depreciation, and an oversupply of homes for sale in the market may adversely affect homeowners’ ability or desire to engage in construction or remodeling, resulting in a continued or further slowdown in new construction or remodeling and repair activities. We, like many others in the building products industry, experienced a large drop in orders and a reduction in our margins in 2008 relative to prior years. For the past two years, we have recorded significant goodwill impairments associated with our building products business. If the demand for our building products continues to decrease, we may be required to record additional impairments of our goodwill, which would increase our expenses and reduce our earnings. We can provide no assurances that the building products market will improve in the near future. We expect weakness to continue through 2009 and have an adverse affect on our business and our results of operations. 17 Table of Contents The construction markets are seasonal. The majority of our building products sales are in the residential construction market, which tends to slow down in the winter months. If there is more severe weather than normal, or other events outside of our control, there may be a negative effect on our revenues if we are not able to increase market share. The recent financial crisis could negatively affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Market conditions in the mortgage lending and mortgage finance industries deteriorated significantly in 2008, which adversely affected the availability of credit for home purchasers and remodelers. The recent financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets and the going concern threats to banks and other financial institutions have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, including mortgages and home equity loans, and extreme volatility in credit and equity markets. Further tightening of mortgage lending or mortgage financing requirements could adversely affect the availability of credit for purchasers of our products and thereby reduce our sales. There could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on our business, including the inability of prospective homebuyers or remodelers to obtain credit for finance the purchase of our building products. These and other similar factors could: • cause delay or decisions to not undertake new home construction or improvement projects, • cause our customers to delay or decide not to purchase our building products, • lead to a decline in customer transactions and our financial performance. Our building products business has been strengthened by the sales growth of new products. If we are unable to continue to successfully expand our new product sales, our revenue growth may be adversely affected. Our growth strategy includes the introduction of new building products into HBP’s sales, marketing, and distribution systems. Part of our revenues has come from sales in new product categories. New products require capital for development, manufacturing, and acquisition activities. If we are unable to sustain new product sales growth, whether for lack of access to adequate capital or for other reasons, sales will follow the general industry slow down in new residential construction and remodeling activity, which will negatively affect our revenue and growth. Demand for our building products may decrease because of changes in customer preferences or because competing products gain price advantages. If demand for our products decline, our revenues will decrease. Our building products are subject to reductions in customer demand for reasons such as changes in preferred home styles and appearances. Many of our resin-based accessory products are complementary to an owner’s choice of vinyl as a siding material. If sales of vinyl siding decrease, sale of our accessories will also decrease. Similarly, sales of our architectural stone products are dependent on the continuing popularity of stone finishes. Demand for our building products can also go down if competing products become relatively less expensive. For example, if costs of petroleum based resins that are used to make vinyl siding and accessories increase faster than the costs of stucco, then stucco products, which we do not sell, will become more attractive from a price standpoint, and our vinyl siding and accessory sales will be decreased. If demand for our building products declines because of changes in the popularity or price advantages of our products, our revenues will be adversely affected. A significant increase in the price of materials used in the production of our building products that cannot be passed on to customers could have a significant adverse effect on our net income. Furthermore, we depend 18 Table of Contents upon limited sources for certain key production materials, the interruption of which would materially disrupt our ability to manufacture and supply products, resulting in lost revenues and the potential loss of customers. Our architectural stone manufacturing processes require key production materials including cement, oxides, packaging materials, and certain types of rubber-based products. The suppliers of these materials may experience capacity or supply constraints in meeting market demand that limit our ability to obtain needed production materials on a timely basis or at expected prices. We have no long-term contracts with such suppliers. We do not currently maintain large inventories of production materials and alternative sources meeting our requirements could be difficult to arrange in the short term. A significant increase in the price of these materials that cannot be passed on to customers could have a significant adverse effect on our net income. Additionally, our manufacturing and ability to provide products to its customers could be materially disrupted if this supply of materials was interrupted for any reason. Such an interruption and the resulting inability to supply our architectural stone customers with products could adversely impact our revenues and our relationships with our customers. Certain of our home accessory products are manufactured from polypropylene, which material is sold to us by a single supplier. The price of polypropylene is primarily a function of manufacturing capacity, demand and the prices of petrochemical feedstocks, crude oil and natural gas liquids. Historically, the market price of polypropylene has fluctuated, and significantly increased in 2008. A significant increase in the price of polypropylene that cannot be passed on to customers could have a significant adverse effect on our net income. There is no long-term contract with our polypropylene supplier. We do not maintain large inventories of polypropylene and alternative sources meeting our requirements could be difficult to arrange in the short term. Therefore, our manufacturing and ability to provide products to our customers could be materially disrupted if this supply of polypropylene was interrupted for any reason. Such an interruption and the resulting inability to supply our resin-based accessory customers with products could adversely impact our revenues and potentially our relationships with our customers. Interruption of Tapco’s ability to immediately ship individual or custom product orders could harm Tapco’s reputation and result in lost revenues if customers turn to other sources for products. Tapco’s building products business is highly dependent upon rapid shipments to contractors and distributors throughout the United States of individual orders, a large portion of which orders are manufactured upon demand to meet customer specifications. If there is significant interruption of business at any of Tapco’s manufacturing plants or with Tapco’s computer systems that track customer orders and production, Tapco is at risk of harming its reputation for speed and reliability with important customers and losing short-term and long-term revenues if these customers turn to other sources. HBP’s revenues would be materially adversely affected if it lost one or more of its three major customers. Three customers of our resin-based accessory products together accounted for approximately 29% of its revenues for such products in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2008. There are no long-term contracts in place with these customers. Accordingly, a loss of or significant decrease in demand from these customers would have a material adverse effect on our business. If HRI’s coal-fueled electric utility industry suppliers fail to provide HRI with high-value CCPs because of environmental regulations or otherwise, HRI’s costs could increase and supply could decrease, hindering growth or decreasing our revenue. HRI relies on the production of CCPs by coal-fueled electric utilities. HRI has occasionally experienced delays and other problems in obtaining high-value CCPs from its suppliers and may in the future be unable to obtain high-value CCPs on the scale and within the time frames required by HRI to meet customers’ needs. Until the Supreme Court appeal of the Clean Air Mercury Rule, implemented under the 1990 Clean Air Act 19 Table of Contents Amendments, is finally resolved, we will not know whether additional technologies at power plants will be required to reduce mercury emissions that could negatively affect fly ash quality. For example, future regulations could require activated carbon to be injected into power plant exhaust gases to capture mercury. This process may increase the carbon collected with the fly ash and may make the fly ash undesirable for concrete. Carbon removal processes are technically challenging and expensive. In addition, increasing concerns about greenhouse gas or other emissions from burning coal at electricity generation plants could lead to federal or state regulations that encourage or require utilities to burn less or eliminate coal in the production of electricity. EPA’s recently released ANPR Regulating Greenhouse Gas Emissions Under the Clean Air Act signals the start of regulatory and/or legislative efforts to reduce greenhouse gases under the forthcoming Obama administration. Such regulations could reduce the supply of fly ash and other CCPs. If HRI is unable to obtain CCPs or if it experiences a delay in the delivery of high-value or quality CCPs, HRI will have a reduced supply of CCPs to sell or may be forced to incur significant unanticipated expenses to secure alternative sources or to otherwise maintain supply to customers. Moreover, revenues could be adversely affected if CCP sales volumes cannot be maintained or if customers choose to find alternatives to HRI’s products. HRI primarily sells fly ash for use in concrete; if use of fly ash does not increase, HRI may not grow. HRI’s growth has been and continues to be dependent upon the increased use of fly ash in the production of concrete. HRI’s marketing initiatives emphasize the environmental, cost and performance advantages of replacing portland cement with fly ash in the production of concrete. If HRI’s marketing initiatives are not successful, HRI may not be able to sustain its growth. If portland cement or competing replacement products are available at lower prices than fly ash, our sales of fly ash as a replacement for portland cement in concrete products could suffer, causing a decline in HRI’s revenues and net income. An estimated 76% of HRI’s revenues for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2008 were derived from the sale of fly ash as a replacement for portland cement in concrete products. At times, there may be an overcapacity of cement in regional markets, causing potential price decreases. The markets for HRI’s products are regional, in part because of the costs of transporting CCPs, and HRI’s business is affected by the availability and cost of competing products in the specific regions where it conducts business. If competing products become available at prices equal to or less than fly ash, HRI’s revenues and net income could decrease. Because demand for CCPs sold by HRI is affected by fluctuations in weather and construction cycles, HRI’s revenues and net income could decrease significantly as a result of unexpected or severe weather or slowdowns in the construction industry. HRI manages and markets CCPs and uses CCPs to produce building products. Utilities produce CCPs year-round. In comparison, sales of CCPs are generally keyed to construction market demands that tend to follow national trends in construction with predictable increases during temperate seasons and decreases during periods of severe weather. HRI’s CCP sales have historically reflected these seasonal trends, with the largest percentage of total annual revenues being realized in the quarters ended June 30 and September 30. Low seasonal demand normally results in reduced shipments and revenues in the quarters ended December 31 and March 31. The CCP industry is cyclical because of its dependence on building construction and highway construction, including infrastructure repair, and is also affected by changes in general and local economic conditions. State construction budgets are affected adversely by economic downturns. HRI’s sales could significantly decrease as a result of a downturn in the economy in one or more markets that it serves. The profitability of HES depends upon the operational success of a new business. Because of the end of HES’s legacy alternative fuel licensing and chemical reagent sales business as of December 31, 2007, HES began development of its new coal cleaning business. During FY 2008, HES 20 Table of Contents completed construction on eight coal cleaning facilities and began operations. Three additional facilities are expected to be operational by the end of calendar year 2008. To successfully operate its facilities, HES must produce and market a quality fuel, addressing operational issues including feedstock availability and cost, construction and operability of equipment, successful separation of minerals including ash, sulfur, and mercury, product moisture and Btu content, overall costs of operations, as well as marketing and sales of the finished product, which is generally of smaller particle size (called fines) and which may be more difficult to sell than run-of-mine coal. This is a new business for HES, and to date, production and sales of cleaned coal have improved quarter over quarter. The profitability of HES depends on the ability of HES to increase production and sales of cleaned coal. If these facilities operate at low production levels or cannot produce fuel satisfactory to customers, revenues will be materially adversely affected. Regulatory changes could reduce the demand for coal which may decrease the price for which HES can sell its clean coal product. In addition, a slowing economy may reduce demand for coal, adversely affecting our revenues. Our clean coal revenues are dependent upon the demand for coal, particularly as a fuel for the production of electricity. Increasing concerns about greenhouse gas or other emissions from burning coal at power generation plants could lead to federal or state regulations that encourage or require utilities to burn less or eliminate coal in the production of electricity. Such regulations could reduce the demand for coal, which would adversely affect the prices at which HES could sell its clean coal product and decrease our revenues. Coal is a commodity that can be produced and shipped worldwide. As the U.S. and worldwide economies slow, demand for coal as an energy source may decrease. In addition, some of our clean coal revenues come from the sale of metallurgical grade coal used in steel making. As economic growth slows, so will the demand for steel. Slower economic growth can therefore reduce the overall demand for coal, including metallurgical grade coal. This could reduce the prices for which we can sell clean coal, adversely affecting our revenues. HES may not qualify for tax credits under Section 45 which will adversely affect our profitability. Section 45 provides a tax credit for the production and sale of refined coal. To date, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has issued very little public guidance about how this tax credit program will be administered and the restrictions on the availability of such credits. Based on the language of Section 45, HES believes that the coal cleaning facilities are eligible for Section 45 refined coal tax credits. However, the ability to claim tax credits is dependent upon a number of conditions, including, but not limited to: • Placing facilities in service on or before December 31, 2008; • Producing a fuel from coal that is lower in NOx and either SOx or mercury emissions by the specified amount as compared to the emissions of the feedstock; • Producing a fuel at least 50% more valuable than the feedstock; and • Sale of the fuel to a third-party for the purpose of producing steam. The IRS may challenge Section 45 tax credits claimed by HES based on any one of these or other conditions. In addition, Congress may modify or repeal Section 45 so that these tax credits may not be available in the future. If HES is not successful in claiming Section 45 credits from our coal cleaning facilities, our profitability will be materially adversely affected. If the IRS is successful in its challenges of Section 45K tax credits claimed by us, we may be subject to increased tax liabilities which will materially adversely affect our income. The IRS is challenging by audit whether HES satisfied the requirements of Section 45K, including placed-in-service requirements, and is seeking to disallow Section 45K tax credits claimed by us. The outcome of 21 Table of Contents such audits, appeals, and any tax litigation is uncertain. In the event that the IRS is ultimately successful in sustaining its challenge to tax credits claimed by us, we will have an increased tax liability which will materially adversely affect our income. The availability and price of corn purchased by Blue Flint Ethanol, LLC (BFE) can be affected by weather, disease, demand from other users of corn, government programs and other factors beyond BFE’s control. In addition, fluctuations in ethanol prices could adversely affect BFE’s ethanol revenues. The availability and price of corn, the primary feedstock for BFE’s ethanol production, is subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, crop disease, demand for corn from other users, government farm programs and policies, changes in demand resulting from population growth, and production of similar and competitive crops. There were wide fluctuations in the pricing of ethanol and corn in 2008. Ethanol pricing currently tracks corn pricing which tends to limit the upside price potential of ethanol. Increased demand and/or reduced supply of corn adversely affects our profitability by increasing the cost of raw materials used in BFE’s operations. The ethanol and biodiesel industry in the U.S. has grown rapidly and our success will depend on whether demand for ethanol increases proportionately or if the increased production results in excess capacity. As of the end of 2008, it appears that the ethanol industry is producing product in excess of the market’s ability to blend, store, transport, sell and deliver ethanol-based fuels. This excess supply is putting downward pressure on the sales prices for ethanol to producers, and could adversely affect BFE’s revenues and operating results. Our senior secured credit facility contains financial covenants which we may not meet with our future financial results. In addition, covenant restrictions under our senior secured credit facility may limit our ability to operate our business in a manner required to sustain profitability and generate growth. If we breach any of our covenants, our senior secured lenders could call our debt and foreclose on our assets. Our senior secured credit facilities set forth covenants requiring us to maintain specified financial ratios and to satisfy certain financial condition tests. See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements for a description of these covenants. The results of our future operations may not allow us to meet these covenants, or may require that we take action to reduce our debt or to act in a manner contrary to our business objectives. In addition, our senior secured credit facilities, contain, among other things, covenants that may restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs, to acquire additional businesses or to engage in other business activities. The senior secured credit facilities impose specified limitations on joint venture investments and new acquisitions. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our senior secured credit facilities, in which event our lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable. If we are not able to repay our obligations when they become due or they are accelerated, the lenders could foreclose on our assets, and the value of our stock could be severely reduced or eliminated. In the past, we have from time to time obtained credit agreement amendments from our lenders to address covenant restrictions. We may not be able to obtain amendments or waivers in the future. Our new businesses, processes and technologies may not be successfully developed, operated and marketed, which could affect our future profitability. Although we have developed or acquired many new businesses, processes and technologies (e.g., ethanol, heavy oil upgrading and coal cleaning), commercialization of these businesses and technologies are in early stages. Commercial success of these new businesses and technologies will depend on our ability to enter into agreements with customers, licensees and/or joint venturers to further develop and provide adequate funding to commercialize the new businesses and technologies, as well as to develop markets for the products and 22 Table of Contents technologies. We may not be able to enter into these agreements and adequate funding may not be available to fully develop and successfully commercialize our new businesses and technologies. Further, we may not be able to profitably operate our new businesses or market our technologies or products produced from them. Our growth requires continued investment of capital. If we cannot invest additional capital into new and existing businesses, we may not be able to sustain or increase our growth. Our operations require both maintenance and growth capital. A key part of our business strategy has been to expand through complementary acquisitions, which has required significant capital. In addition, commercialization of our energy technologies, such as coal cleaning and heavy oil upgrading, has required and will require significant debt and equity commitments. In 2008, we made significant investments in coal cleaning facilities and to secure coal feedstocks, financed with equity, debt, and other arrangements, and we expect to make additional such investments in 2009 and in future years. If we do not have sufficient capital to make equity investments in new projects and/or cannot find acceptable sources of debt financing, our growth may suffer. Our building products and CCP businesses also require significant capital expenditures. Our senior secured credit facilities limit capital expenditures for all of Headwaters to $100.0 million. We believe that we will need substantially all of this capital expenditure limitation in fiscal year 2009 for maintenance, growth of existing businesses and new growth initiatives. We are conducting business in China and other foreign countries, where intellectual property and other laws, as well as business conditions, may leave our intellectual property, products and technologies vulnerable to duplication by competitors and create uncertainties as to our legal rights against such competitors’ actions. We have and expect to continue to license or otherwise make our technology, including our nanotechnology, heavy oil upgrading and coal liquefaction technology, available to entities in China and other foreign countries. There is a risk that foreign intellectual property laws will not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as under United States laws, leaving us vulnerable to competitors who may attempt to copy our products, processes or technologies. Further, the legal system of China is based on statutory law. Under this system, prior court decisions may be cited as persuasive authority but do not have binding precedential effect. Since 1979, the Chinese government has been developing a comprehensive system of commercial laws and considerable progress has been made in the promulgation of laws and regulations dealing with economic matters, such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. As these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively new and because of the limited volume of published case law and judicial interpretations and the non-binding nature of prior court decisions, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws, regulations and legal requirements involve some uncertainty. These uncertainties could limit the legal protection or recourse available to us. In addition, dependence on foreign licenses and conducting foreign operations may subject us to increased risk from political change, ownership issues or repatriation or currency exchange concerns. Significant increases in energy and transportation costs that cannot be passed on to customers could have a significant adverse effect on net income. We purchase a significant amount of energy from various sources to conduct our operations, including fossil fuels and electricity for production of building products and diesel fuel for distribution of our products and for production-related vehicles. In addition, fuel cost increases have increased truck and rail carrier transportation costs for our products. Fuel cost increases have in the past and may in the future adversely affect the results of our operations and our financial condition. Prices and availability of all petroleum products are subject to political, economic and market factors that are generally outside of our control. 23 Table of Contents We operate in industries subject to significant environmental regulation, and compliance with and changes in regulation could add significantly to the costs of conducting business. The coal-based operations of HES and the CCP operations of HRI and their respective customers and licensees, together with projects such as the ethanol plant and the operations of a hydrogen peroxide plant in Korea, are subject to federal, state, local and international environmental regulations that impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the air and water and establish standards for the treatment, storage and disposal of waste products, which add to the costs of doing business and expose us to potential fines for non-compliance. If the costs of environmental compliance increase for any reason, we may not be able to pass on these costs to customers. In order to establish and operate the alternative fuel plants, coal cleaning plants, power plants and operations to collect and transport CCPs and bottom ash, we and our customers have obtained various state and local permits and must comply with processes and procedures that have been approved by regulatory authorities. Any failure to comply could result in the issuance of substantial fines and penalties and cause us to incur environmental liabilities. Certain HBP manufacturing operations are also subject to environmental regulations and permit requirements. If HBP and its subsidiaries and affiliates cannot obtain or maintain required environmental permits for their existing and planned manufacturing facilities in a timely manner or at all, they may be subject to additional costs and/or fines. The ethanol industry sector manufactures ethanol, principally from industrial corn. Ethanol production facilities can emit volatile organic compounds and carbon monoxide into the air. In 2002, EPA began investigating a suspected pattern of noncompliance with the Prevention of Significant Deterioration/New Source Review (PSD/NSR) requirements of the Clean Air Act within the ethanol industry. The Clean Air Act’s NSR program requires a source to install pollution controls and undertake other preconstruction obligations to control air pollution emissions. Subsequent investigations of several companies in the ethanol industry found them to be in violation for failure to obtain either PSD or minor source permits for new construction and/or modifications made at their facilities. EPA has negotiated consent decrees with several companies to bring their ethanol plants into compliance with the air pollution requirements. Our ethanol production facility located at the GRE Coal Creek pulverized coal electric power station near Underwood, North Dakota, is subject to air pollution permitting and emission control regulatory requirements. If this facility cannot maintain required environmental permits or maintain compliance with environmental regulations, it may be subject to additional costs and/or fines. HTI’s ordinary course of business requires using its facilities to perform research and development activities involving coal, oil, chemicals and energy technologies, including liquefaction of coal. As a result, petroleum and other hazardous materials have been and are present in and on HTI’s properties. Regulatory noncompliance or accidental discharges, fires, or explosions, in spite of safeguards, could create environmental or safety liabilities. Therefore, our operations entail risk of environmental damage and injury to people, and we could incur liabilities in the future arising from the discharge of pollutants into the environment, waste disposal practices, or accidents. We are involved in litigation and claims for which we incur significant costs and are exposed to significant liability. We are a party to some significant legal proceedings and are subject to potential claims regarding operation of our business. These proceedings will require that we incur substantial costs, including attorneys’ fees, managerial time and other personnel resources and costs in pursuing resolution, and adverse resolution of these proceedings could hurt our reputation. With respect to the cases referred to in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements, the following amount of damages is being sought by the counter parties: Boynton: Boynton seeks declaratory relief as well as compensatory damages in the approximate amount of $45.0 million plus punitive damages. Ecologica Carmelo: Carmelo seeks compensatory damages in the approximate amount of $12.3 million. 24 Table of Contents Mainland Laboratory: Mainland seeks compensatory damages in the approximate amount of $23.0 million, as well as an enhancement of any damages award based on the alleged willful infringement by HRI of its patent. We have ongoing litigation and claims incurred during the normal course of business, including the items referred to above. We intend to vigorously defend and/or pursue our rights in these actions. We do not currently believe that the outcome of these actions will have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows or financial position; however, it is possible that a change in the estimates of probable liability could occur, and the change could be significant. We have significant competition in our industries which may cause demand for our products and services to decrease. We experience significant competition in all of our segments and geographic regions. A failure to compete effectively or increased competition could lead to price cuts, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, which could decrease our profitability. Many of our competitors have greater financial, management and other resources than us and may be able to take advantage of acquisitions and other opportunities more readily. In certain instances we must compete on the basis of superior products and services rather than price, thereby increasing the costs of marketing our services to remain competitive. See ITEM 1, “Business—Competition,” for more information on the competition faced by us in all of our segments. Our business strategy to diversify and grow through acquisitions may result in integration costs, poor performance and dilution to existing stockholders. An important aspect of our business strategy has been and continues to be diversification and growth through acquisitions. Our ability to successfully implement our strategy is subject to a number of risks, including difficulties in identifying acceptable acquisition candidates, consummating acquisitions on favorable terms and obtaining adequate financing, which may adversely affect our ability to develop new products and services and to compete in our markets. In addition, if we consummate acquisitions through an exchange of our securities, our existing stockholders could suffer dilution. If we do not successfully integrate newly acquired businesses with our existing businesses, we may not realize the expected benefits of the acquisitions, and the resources and attention required for successful integration may interrupt the business activities of acquired businesses and our existing businesses. Successful management and integration of acquisitions are subject to a number of risks, including difficulties in assimilating acquired operations, loss of key employees, diversion of management’s attention from core business operations, assumption of contingent liabilities, incurrence of potentially significant write-offs, and various employee issues, such as issues related to human resource benefit plans, and an increase in employment and discrimination claims and claims for workers’ compensation. Each business acquisition also requires us to expand our operational and financial systems, which increases the complexity of our information technology systems. Implementation of controls, systems and procedures may be costly and time-consuming and may not be effective. This strategy may not improve our operating results and acquisitions may have a dilutive effect on existing stockholders. If our internal controls over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act are not adequate, our reputation could be harmed and we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal penalties or stockholder litigation. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we evaluate and report on our system of internal controls. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal penalties or stockholder litigation. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports could harm our business. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act also requires that our independent auditors report on our system of internal controls. We have documented and tested our system of internal controls to 25 Table of Contents provide the basis for our report for the year ended September 30, 2008. The growth and diversification of our business through acquisitions complicates the process of developing, documenting, maintaining and testing internal controls. No assurance can be given that in the future there may not be significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that would be required to be reported. If we are unable to manage the growth of our business successfully, our revenues and business prospects could suffer. We have experienced significant growth recently, both internally and through acquisitions. We may not be able to successfully manage the increased scope of our operations or a significantly larger and more geographically diverse workforce as we expand. Any failure to successfully manage growth could harm our business and financial results. Additionally, growth increases the demands on our management, our internal systems, procedures and controls. To successfully manage growth, we must add administrative staff and periodically update and strengthen our operating, financial and other systems, procedures and controls, which will increase our costs and may reduce our profitability. We may be unable to successfully implement improvements to our information and control systems in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing or future systems and controls. Unauthorized use of or infringement claims regarding our proprietary intellectual property could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. We rely primarily on a combination of trade secrets, patents, copyright and trademark laws and confidentiality procedures to protect our intellectual property. Despite these precautions, unauthorized third parties may misappropriate, infringe upon, copy or reverse engineer portions of our technology or products. We do not know if current or future patent applications will be issued with the scope of the claims sought, if at all, or whether any patents issued will be challenged or invalidated. Our business could be harmed if we infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. As described in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements, we have been, and may be in the future, notified that we may be infringing intellectual property rights possessed by third parties. If any such claims are asserted against us, we may seek to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements. There is a risk in these situations that no license will be available or that a license will not be available on reasonable terms, precluding our use of the applicable technology. Alternatively, we may decide to litigate such claims or attempt to design around the patented technology. To date, while no single patent or trademark is material to our business and the issues described in this paragraph have not resulted in significant cost or had an adverse impact on our business, future actions could be costly and would divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. Our capital structure affects our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions and results in high interest costs. As of September 30, 2008, we had approximately $532.5 million of total debt outstanding, including $200.0 million of senior indebtedness under our senior secured credit facilities and $332.5 million of our 2.875% and 2.50% convertible senior subordinated notes (the Convertible Notes). Subject to restrictions in our senior secured credit facility, we may also incur significant amounts of additional debt for working capital, capital expenditures and other purposes. Our combined debt total could have important consequences, including the following: • we may have difficulty borrowing money for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes because of our existing debt load and because our borrowings are secured by all of our assets; • we will need to use a large portion of our cash flow to pay interest and the required principal payments on our debt, which will reduce the amount of money available to finance our operations, capital expenditures and other activities; and • our senior secured credit facility has a variable rate of interest, which exposes us to the risk of increased interest rates 26 Table of Contents Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness depends on our future performance, which to a certain extent is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not continue to generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt and make necessary capital expenditures. If unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Future lack of availability of debt or equity financing alternatives may limit our ability to enter into strategic transactions or to make important changes to our capital structure. Recent months have seen a near collapse of markets in which we can obtain debt or equity financing. It is uncertain when these markets might recover and again be available to us. The lack of financing alternatives has reduced our ability to pursue and finance attractive acquisitions and investments, refinance existing debt, and change the mix and type of debt and equity in our capital structure. This lack of financing alternatives may continue to slow our growth and prohibit recapitalization well into the future. Fluctuations in the value of currency can negatively affect our revenue and earnings. Doing business internationally exposes us to risks related to the value of one currency compared to another. For example, some of our revenues are generated by sales of goods produced in the U.S. to buyers in foreign countries. If the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to the currency of foreign purchasers, the relative cost of our goods to such purchasers will go up, and the demand for our products will decrease, reducing our revenues. Also, in cases where our debt or other obligations are in currencies different than the currency in which we earn revenue, we can lose money as a result of fluctuations in the exchange rates, decreasing our earnings. Risks Related to our Common Stock The price of our common stock historically has been volatile. This volatility may affect the price at which you could sell your common stock, and the sale of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect the price of our common stock. The market price for our common stock has varied between a high of $16.40 in August 2008 and a low of $7.09 in October 2008 in the twelve month period ended October 31, 2008. This volatility may affect the price at which you could sell your common stock, and the sale of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our stock price is likely to continue to be volatile and subject to significant price and volume fluctuations in response to market and other factors, including the other factors discussed in “Risks Relating to Our Business;” variations in our quarterly operating results from our expectations or those of securities analysts or investors; downward revisions in securities analysts’ estimates; and announcement by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of their stock, many companies have been the subject of securities class action litigation. If we became involved in securities class action litigation in the future, it could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management’s attention and resources and could harm our stock price, business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the broader stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations in recent months and years. This volatility has affected the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance and may adversely affect the price of our common stock. In addition, our announcements of our quarterly operating results, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets and other developments affecting us, our affiliates or our competitors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. 27 Table of Contents In addition, the sale of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely impact our stock price. As of September 30, 2008, we had outstanding approximately 42.0 million shares of our common stock and options to purchase approximately 2.1 million shares of our common stock (of which approximately 2.0 million were exercisable as of that date). We also had outstanding approximately 1.3 million stock appreciation rights as of September 30, 2008, of which approximately 0.4 million were exercisable. The sale or the availability for sale of a large number of shares of our common stock in the public market could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Conversion of the 2.875% Convertible Notes may cause volatility in our stock price and will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders. Although our diluted earnings per share calculation treats the 2.875% Convertible Notes as if they were already converted into common stock, sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. Anticipated conversion of the notes into shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the Convertible Notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the notes could be used to satisfy short positions. Conversion of the Convertible Notes will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders, including holders who had previously converted their notes. We have never paid dividends and do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the future, so any short-term return on your investment will depend on the market price of our capital stock. We currently intend to retain any earnings to finance our operations and growth. The terms and conditions of our senior secured credit facility restrict and limit payments or distributions in respect of our capital stock. Delaware law and our charter documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could cause the market price of our shares to decline. We are a Delaware corporation, and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our board of directors has the power, without stockholder approval, to designate the terms of one or more series of preferred stock and issue shares of preferred stock, including the adoption of a “poison pill,” which could be used defensively if a takeover is threatened. The ability of our board of directors to create and issue a new series of preferred stock and certain provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 