Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Holding our shares involves various risks and uncertainties. The risks described in this section are among those that have had or could in the future have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, as well as on the value of our common shares. Risks Related to Our Business There is substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Although the Company has been able to extend, restructure and obtain forbearance agreements on various debt and interest rate swap agreements, these extensions, restructurings and forbearance agreements are generally short-term in nature and do not by themselves provide a viable long-term solution to the Company’s liquidity issues. If the Company is not able to negotiate other arrangements, the Company will not be able to pay the interest on certain of its subordinate debt following the rate increases that are scheduled to occur in April and May of 2012. The Company’s future cash flows are not expected to be sufficient to satisfy the overall debt service required under the subordinate debt following such increases, and the Company would be unable to repay the indebtedness if the subordinate debt were accelerated. See “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Note 1, Description of the Business and Basis of Presentation” and “Note 8 – Debt” for further information. In the event management is not successful in restructuring or settling its remaining non-bond related debt, or if the bond portfolio net interest income and the common equity distributions the Company receives from its subsidiaries are substantially reduced, the Company may have to consider seeking relief through reorganization under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. The difficulty in managing these issues raises substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. We have certain debt obligations that are past their maturities, we have certain debt obligations with maturing forbearance agreements and the majority of our debt obligations have collateral posting requirements which could be increased. At December 31, 2011, we were in default on $32.7 million of debt that had previously come due. We have forbearance agreements in place pursuant to which our lenders have agreed not to exercise remedies with respect to their debt if we meet various performance criteria. We have obtained regular extensions of these forbearance agreements, the most recent of which are currently scheduled to expire on June 30, 2013. If we do not perform or the lenders do not renew, the lenders could demand payment in full and we would not be able to make that payment. We had $166.7 million of subordinate debt obligations at December 31, 2011 that were subject to a reduced interest rate of 0.75%. In January 2012, the Company repurchased $20.0 million of this debt for $5.0 million and extended the period during which interest is payable on $38.4 million of this debt at the existing rate of 0.75% to February 2014. The 0.75% rate on the remaining $108.3 million of this subordinate debt will reset to approximately 7.9% in April and May of 2012. We are currently in negotiations with these subordinate lenders to extend the existing concessions; however, we can provide no assurance that we will be successful. Currently, we do not have the liquidity to meet the increased payments on all of our subordinate debt once the existing concessions expire. As long as certain senior debt obligations that have come due remain payable, we do not believe the subordinate debt holders can pursue any remedies against us if we were unable to pay them. We are subject to the constant possibility that one or more of our secured lenders will assert that the current market value of the assets that secure their loans (which in most instances our lenders determine) has fallen below required levels and that we must either post additional collateral or pay down debt, which we likely would be unable to do. The value of our bond portfolio and the cash flow available to us to pay our debt and operate our business is dependent upon real estate and the risks related to real estate. Because many of our assets are secured by real estate, or consist of investments in entities that own real estate, the value of our assets is subject to the risks associated with investments in real estate. Most of our investments derive their value from the cash flows generated by tenant leases. If, because of general economic conditions, local market conditions or property specific conditions, the tenants move out or cannot pay the rents charged on the specific units they lease, the owners (our borrowers) may not be able to lease the units to replacement tenants at full rent (or at all), in which case the cash flows from the properties may not be sufficient to pay interest on our bonds or loans and the value of our investments may decline. Real estate may also decline in value because of market conditions, environmental problems, casualty losses for which insurance proceeds are not sufficient to cover the loss, or condemnation proceedings. The value of our assets and our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by changes in local or national laws or regulatory conditions that affect significant segments of the real estate market, especially the multifamily housing market, including environmental, land use and other laws and regulations that affect the cost of maintaining and operating the properties that secure our debt. 8 We have been, and may continue to be, directly and indirectly affected by disruptions in credit markets. Our business was significantly affected by the disruptions in the credit markets over the past several years. Among other things, disruptions in credit markets have in the past and may in the future cause deterioration in the market for tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds and other instruments that are a major part of our assets, and that deterioration could be significant. This has in the past and may in the future result in our having to reduce the carrying value of the bonds and taxable loans we hold. In addition, while we are not directly exposed to the credit disruptions in the Eurozone, we could be negatively affected by any adverse impact these conditions might have on our economy or our capital partners. If we were forced to sell a significant amount of our pledged assets, the total sales price might not be sufficient to enable us to repay all our borrowings. While market conditions have improved since the low point of the financial crisis, there is a significant possibility that if our lenders forced us to sell assets we have pledged as collateral into the current market, the total sale proceeds realized in such a distressed sale would likely be less than the assets’ estimated fair market value. If that occurred, we might not be able to repay all of our secured borrowings, in which case we would not be able to repay any of our unsecured borrowings. Our bonds are all in securitization trusts or serve as collateral for securitization trusts and could be the subject of a forced sale. At December 31, 2011, substantially all of the Company’s bond investments were either in securitization trusts or pledged as collateral for securitization programs, notes payable or other debt. In the event a securitization trust cannot meet its obligations, all or a portion of the bonds held by or pledged to the trust may be sold to satisfy the obligations to the holders of the senior interests. In the event bonds are liquidated, no payment will be made to the Company except to the extent that the sales price received for the bond exceeds the amounts due on the senior obligations of the trust. In addition, if the value of the bond investments within the securitization trusts or pledged as additional collateral decreases, the Company may be required to post cash or additional investments as collateral for such programs. In the event the Company has insufficient liquidity or unencumbered investments to satisfy these collateral requirements, certain bonds within the securitization trusts may be liquidated by the third-party credit enhancer to reduce the collateral requirement. In such cases, the Company would lose the cash flow from the bonds and its ownership interest in them. If a significant number of bonds were liquidated, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Certain of our bonds are on non-accrual and others are at risk of non-accrual. We hold various types of debt instruments. Our largest holding is of tax-exempt bonds relating to affordable housing developments. We also hold other types of tax-exempt bonds. The unpaid principal balance of bonds on non-accrual at December 31, 2011, was $95.9 million, or 8.9% of our total bond portfolio’s unpaid principal balance. We have reduced the carrying value of our defaulted bonds, but the values realized could be even less if foreclosures were required or if our borrowers filed for bankruptcy protection. Additionally, although certain bonds in our portfolio have operated with debt service coverage ratios (the trailing 12-month property level net operating income divided by annual property level debt service) below 1.0x for extended periods of time without defaulting, approximately $258.4 million (unpaid principal balance), or 29.9%, of the performing mortgage revenue bond portfolio had a debt service coverage ratio of less than 1.0x at December 31, 2011, of which approximately $114.6 million (unpaid principal balance), or 13.3%, was below a 0.9x debt service coverage ratio. Although we have guarantees that back some of our bonds and loans, some of our guarantors have had, and may in the future have, financial problems that cast doubt on their ability to fulfill their guarantees. Changes in interest rates and credit spreads may adversely affect the value of our bonds, increase our borrowing costs and adversely affect the value of our remaining swaps. The Company has exposure to changes in interest rates and credit spreads because all of its investments in bonds pay a fixed rate of interest, while substantially all of the Company’s bond related debt is variable rate. A significant portion of the Company’s variable rate exposure is not hedged by interest rate swaps or caps and the Company does not have the credit standing to enter into any new interest rate swaps and has limited liquidity to purchase any new interest rate caps. A rise in interest rates or an increase in credit spreads could cause the value of certain bond investments to decline, increase the Company’s borrowing costs and make it ineffective for the Company to securitize its bonds. If interest rates decline, our net swap expense will increase because we are in an overall net swap pay position and the value of our remaining swaps will decline, which could cause the Company to have to post additional collateral; however, rising short-term interest rates would have an even greater adverse impact on our cash flows. 9 We do not, and cannot, fully hedge against interest rate risks. The hedges we hold normally have significantly shorter lives than the interest rate sensitive instruments in which we invest. Further, we do not, and frequently cannot, hedge against all the interest rate risks that may affect us. Also, hedges do not always work as we expect them to. We do not have the credit standing to enter into any new interest rate swaps and we have limited liquidity to purchase any new interest rate caps. As a result, we may not be able to obtain such hedges even if they are generally available in the marketplace. Thus, we expect to have ongoing exposure to the effects of interest rate changes on the value of our assets and our borrowing costs. Our bonds are illiquid and may be difficult to sell at fair value. Substantially all of the Company’s bond investments are illiquid, which could prevent sales at favorable terms and make it difficult to value the bond portfolio. Our bond investments are unrated and generally unenhanced and, as a consequence, the purchasers of the Company’s bonds are generally limited to accredited investors and qualified institutional buyers, which results in a limited trading market. This lack of liquidity complicates how the Company determines the fair value of its bonds as there is limited information on trades of comparable bonds. Therefore, there is a risk that if the Company needs to sell bonds, the price it is able to realize may be lower than the carrying value (i.e., estimated fair value) of such bonds. Such differences could be material to our results of operations and financial condition. We depend on the availability of renewable credit enhancement and liquidity facilities for our securitization trusts. A substantial portion of our bond related debt is subject to third party credit enhancement agreements and liquidity facilities that mature prior to the time that the underlying bonds in the trusts mature or are expected to be redeemed. If the Company were unable to renew or replace its third party credit enhancement and liquidity facilities, the Company might not be able to extend or refinance its bond related debt. In this instance, an investor holding the debt issued by the securitization trust could tender its investment to the third party liquidity provider who in turn could liquidate both the bonds within the securitization trust and the bonds pledged as collateral to the securitization trust in order to satisfy the outstanding debt balance. If the Company were able to extend or replace the third party credit enhancement and liquidity facilities or if the Company were able to remarket the debt without the benefit of third party credit enhancement and liquidity facilities, the Company could experience higher bond related debt costs. If a significant number of bonds were liquidated or if bond financing costs increased significantly, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The Company’s senior interests in and debt owed to securitization trust balance was $649.0 million at December 31, 2011, of which $84.1 million has annually renewing credit enhancement and/or liquidity facilities, $540.8 million has credit enhancement and liquidity facilities that mature on March 31, 2013, and $24.1 million have liquidity facilities that mature in 2016 and beyond. There are restrictions on the ability of our primary bond subsidiary to make distributions to us. Substantially all of the Company’s bond investments are held by MuniMae TE Bond Subsidiary, LLC (“TEB”). The Company owns TEB’s common stock, whereas TEB’s preferred stock is owned by third party investors. Under TEB’s operating agreement with its preferred shareholders, there are covenants related to the type of assets in which TEB can invest, the incurrence of leverage, limitations on issuance of additional preferred equity interests, limitations on cash distributions to MuniMae and certain requirements in the event of merger, sale or consolidation. Pursuant to TEB’s operating agreement, distribution of assets from TEB to MuniMae can be made in the form of Distributable Cash Flows (TEB’s net income adjusted to exclude the impact of non-cash items) or a distribution other than Distributable Cash Flows (“Restricted Payments”). TEB is not permitted to redeem common stock or to distribute Restricted Payments to MuniMae if after such Restricted Payment is made TEB’s leverage ratio would be above the incurrence limit of 60% or TEB’s liquidation preferences ratios are not at amounts that would allow it to raise additional preferred equity senior to or on parity with the existing Series A, B, C and D preferred shares outstanding. TEB was below its maximum incurrence leverage and liquidation preference ratios at December 31, 2011. Our common stock in TEB is pledged as collateral and we are subject to restrictions governing how we use our subsidiary’s cash flow. All of TEB’s common stock is pledged to a creditor to support the Company’s collateral requirements related to certain debt and derivative agreements. The Company entered into a forbearance agreement with this creditor (“Counterparty”) in December 2009, which restricted the Company’s ability to utilize common distributions from TEB. On February 2, 2012, the Company entered into a further forbearance agreement with the Counterparty, which provides forbearance from a minimum net asset value requirement and a related certification requirement contained in the Company’s interest rate swap agreements until the earlier of June 30, 2013 or the date on which the Company satisfies the forbearance release terms. See “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Note 1, Description of the Business and Basis of Presentation” and Note 7, “Derivative Financial Instruments.” 10 As part of the forbearance agreement and until satisfaction of the forbearance release terms, the Company cannot permit TEB to declare or make a permitted Restricted Payment distribution to the Company without prior written consent of the Counterparty. We have been unable to successfully remarket TEB’s preferred shares, which reduces its cash flows available for distribution. Beginning in June 2009, TEB has been unable to conduct successful remarketings of its mandatorily redeemable and perpetual preferred shares. This has caused the distributions owed to the TEB preferred shareholders to increase, which has resulted in a reduction to the amount of TEB income that can be distributed to the Company. If TEB continues to be unsuccessful with future remarketings, TEB could experience additional increases in payments to its preferred shareholders, which would result in further reductions to its common distributions to the Company and those changes could be material. The value of our tax-exempt investments could be adversely affected by changes in government tax incentive programs. There can be no assurance that the government will not pass legislation that could adversely affect the value of our tax-exempt bonds. The government could make changes in tax or other laws, such as incentive programs, that while not directly affecting our tax-exempt bonds, could make them less valuable to investors. For example, if the federal government were to lower marginal federal income tax rates, our bonds would likely decline in value. Congress could also pass laws that make competing investments more attractive than tax-exempt bonds, which would also make our bonds less valuable. We must be careful not to become subject to the Investment Company Act of 1940 because if we were subject to that Act, we could be required to sell substantial portions of our assets at a time when we might not otherwise want to do so, and we could incur significant losses as a result. We continuously monitor our activities to be sure we do not become subject to regulation as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. We are exempt from the Investment Company Act because of an exemption for companies that are “primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate.” Because of changes in the nature and number of companies relying on this exemption and because most of the guidance surrounding this exemption comes from “no action” letters issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) staff, the SEC on August 31, 2011 issued a request for comment directed to the scope and use of this exemption. We do not know what action the SEC may take in response to the comments it receives. If we were regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we would be subject to extensive regulation and restrictions relating to capital structure, dividends and a number of other matters. Among other things, we would not be able to incur borrowings. Therefore, if due to a change in our assets, a change in the value of particular assets, or a change in the statute or the SEC’s interpretation of the statute, we were to become subject to the Investment Company Act, either we would have to restructure our assets so we would not be subject to that Act or we would have to change materially the way we do business. Any of those changes could require us to sell substantial portions of our assets at a time when we might not otherwise want to do so, and we could incur significant losses of value as a result. In the past, we have had material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting which substantially increased the cost of preparing financial statements. A material weakness in internal control over financial reporting means that there are deficiencies that present a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of a company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Because there have been material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the past, we have had to use means other than reliance on our internal control over financial reporting to prevent material misstatements in our financial statements. These alternative means have been very labor intensive and have increased the cost we incurred in preparing our financial statements. While we believe there were not any material weaknesses at December 31, 2011, there is risk that we may not have fully remediated our material weaknesses. If we have not fully remediated our material weaknesses, we may have material weaknesses in the future, which could increase our costs among other things. The SEC could take actions which might adversely impact the trading or value of our shares. After we announced in September 2006 that we would be restating our financial statements for 2005 and prior years, the SEC initiated an informal inquiry and requested the voluntary production of documents and information concerning, among other things, the reasons for that restatement and for our prior restatement. We cooperated fully. As a result of the restatement, we were delinquent in our required filings with the SEC for an extended period. In 2009 the SEC notified us that due to the Company’s delinquent status, the SEC could bring an administrative proceeding to revoke the Exchange Act registration of our common shares or could order the suspension of trading in our common shares. The SEC staff has not taken any further action. Although we have completed our restatement and are current in our filings with the SEC, we cannot provide any assurance that the SEC will not take any action in light of our restatement, our past filing delinquencies and deficiencies, or management not completing its assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for prior periods. Any substantial action against us by the SEC could adversely affect our business. 11 If the registration of our common shares were revoked or if trading were suspended, the public trading of our common shares would effectively terminate, investors would find it difficult, if not impossible, to buy or sell common shares, and the price of our shares would likely decline. We have provided guarantees with respect to certain of the tax credit equity funds that we sponsored, and if we were to become obligated to perform on those guarantees our financial condition and results of operation could suffer. Although we sold our low income housing tax credit business, we retained our general partner interest in certain LIHTC Funds for which we have guaranteed the availability of tax benefits and minimum returns on investment to the LIHTC Funds’ investors. In some cases we sold our interest in LIHTC Funds where we made other types of guarantees and we have indemnified the purchaser from investor claims related to those guarantees. We continue to be obligated on our guarantees to the investors (or purchasers) in these funds and we could be required to make substantial payments with regard to these guarantees. The ability of investors in tax credit equity funds to benefit from low income housing tax credits requires that the partnerships in which those funds invest operate affordable housing properties in compliance with a number of requirements in the Code and the regulations under it. Failure to comply continuously with these requirements throughout a 15-year recapture period could result in loss of the right to those low income housing tax credits, including recapture of credits that were already taken, potentially creating liability under our guarantees. If we were to become obligated to perform on these guarantees our financial condition and results of operation would suffer. In the sale of our Agency Lending business, we agreed to share losses (up to specified levels) on loans that we underwrote and sold to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Prior to the sale of our Agency Lending business, we participated in the Fannie Mae DUS and Freddie Mac Program Plus programs. The terms of our participation required that we assume responsibility for a portion of any loss that may result from borrower defaults including foreclosure, based on Fannie Mae’s and Freddie Mac's loss sharing formulas. Under the Fannie Mae DUS program, we were generally responsible for the first 5% of the unpaid principal balance and 25% of any additional losses with a maximum cap of 20% of the original principal balance. Certain loans have a maximum cap of 30% and 40% and different loss sharing percentages. Under the Freddie Mac Program Plus program, we were generally responsible for the first 8% of the unpaid principal balance. Under the agreement by which we sold this business we agreed to reimburse the purchaser up to $30 million for loss sharing losses on loans acquired from us for the first four years after the sale until May 2013. Losses under this agreement are to be paid by reducing the par amount of preferred shares we received as part of the sale price of the business. At December 31, 2011, reductions totaled $3.0 million. Although we expect our future loss sharing losses to be minimal, if the losses are higher than expected, it would have a negative impact on our financial condition or results of operations. The value of our investment in and cash flow from overseas operations could fluctuate with changes in the relative value of the dollar, euro and South African rand. The net assets and operations of IHS are denominated in euro and rand. In addition, our co-investment in the SA Fund is denominated in rand. We do not hedge these exposures and may experience losses as the value of our holdings in IHS and the SA Fund fluctuate with changes in foreign exchange rates of both the euro and the rand relative to the dollar. Lastly, our SA Fund borrows money in U.S. dollars from the Overseas Private Investment Corporation and the SA Fund itself therefore has dollar to rand currency risk and even though this risk is currently being hedged by the SA Fund with foreign currency derivatives, these borrowings or hedges could adversely impact the SA Fund’s results and the value of our investment. Our international operations have foreign government risk. Foreign governments have different laws and policies than the U.S. government. They may change their laws and policies in ways which harm or limit our operations. They may compete directly with us. They may nationalize our operations without fair compensation to us. They may enact laws that make it more difficult for foreign companies to do business, thereby giving local competitors an advantage. South Africa and other countries impose exchange controls that regulate how money enters and leaves the country. These laws could be changed in ways that are adverse to us. We are very limited in our ability to anticipate, control or counteract these risks. The application of international tax regimes could substantially affect our after tax results of operations from international operations. The taxation of income we earn abroad is subject to an entirely different set of tax risks than income we earn domestically. We are subject to the laws of the various jurisdictions in which we earn income, or through which our income must move in order for us to receive it in the United States. These tax consequences are also governed by international treaties. If any of these laws or treaties change, it could impact our projected after tax results and the impact could be substantial. 12 Our South African operations are subject to different real estate risks than our operations in the United States, including laws and customs related to real estate ownership and finance. Our SA Fund invests in real estate in South Africa. While many of the risks are similar to investing in U.S. real estate, there are legal differences and market differences that may adversely impact our operations and our results. The SA Fund investments include for-sale units. If purchasers have difficulty obtaining mortgage or other financing, unit sales and therefore the value of our interest in the SA Fund could be adversely affected. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Shares Our Board can issue an unlimited number of common or preferred shares, which could reduce our book value per common share and earnings per common share and the cash or other assets available for distribution per common share upon liquidation or otherwise. Under our Operating Agreement, our Board of Directors can authorize, without any requirement of shareholder approval, the issuance of an unlimited number of common shares. Although New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) rules previously imposed some limitations on our ability to issue shares without shareholder approval, our shares are not currently listed on the NYSE. Issuances of common shares could dilute the book value or the net income per common share or the cash per share available for distribution to common shareholders. Our Board can also authorize, without any requirement of shareholder approval, the issuance of an unlimited number of shares with preferences over the common shares as to dividends, distributions on liquidation and other matters, other than voting. This could reduce the book value and net earnings that would be allocable to our common shares and the cash or other assets that are available for distribution to our common shareholders either periodically or upon our liquidation. Our shareholders may be taxed on their respective shares of our taxable income, even if we do not make distributions to them. We are a limited liability company, not a corporation, and we have elected to be taxed as though we were a partnership. Because of that, our taxable income and loss, and our other tax attributes (including the tax-exempt nature of some of the interest we receive) are treated, at least for federal income tax purposes, as the taxable income or loss and other tax attributes, of our shareholders. That avoids the double tax to which corporations and their shareholders usually are subject, and enables our shareholders to benefit from the fact that a portion of our income is exempt from federal income tax. However, because we pay no dividends and have no present plan to pay any, if we have taxable income, our shareholders will be taxed on sums they do not receive, since under the rules of partnership taxation our shareholders are taxed based on our taxable income and not on our distributions. In addition, much of our tax-exempt income is subject to the AMT for federal income tax purposes and shareholders who are subject to the AMT could be subject to tax on such income even if we do not distribute it. While we may at times pass through taxable losses, we consistently pass through to our shareholders for tax purposes our tax-exempt interest income and some taxable interest income. In addition, as a result of the rules applicable to partnership taxation, shareholders who have a low basis in our shares may have capital gains allocated to them even when the Company itself had a capital loss. One of our shareholders has the right to designate one, and in some circumstances two, of our directors, which is a right that is not available to any other of our shareholders. Under our organizational documents (since our inception), Shelter Development Holdings, Inc., which is controlled by Mark Joseph, the Chairman of our Board, or its successor has the right to appoint one of our directors, or, if we have more than 10 directors, it has the right to appoint two of our directors. This right is not available to any other of our shareholders. These provisions were originally included in our operating agreement for tax reasons that are no longer relevant. Accordingly, in the Proxy Statement for our 2012 annual meeting we are asking our shareholders to approve the deletion of these provisions. Deleting these provisions will mean our shareholders will have the power to elect all Board members. Provisions of our Operating Agreement may discourage attempts to acquire us. Our Operating Agreement contains at least three groups of provisions that could have the effect of discouraging people from trying to acquire control of us. Those provisions are: ·If any person or group, other than Shelter Development Holdings, Inc., SCA Tax-Exempt Fund, MME I Corporation, MME II Corporation or their affiliates, acquires 10% or more of our shares, that person or group cannot, with a very limited exception, (1) engage in a business combination with us (including an acquisition from us of more than 10% of our assets or more than 5% of our shares) within five years after the person or group acquires the 10% or greater interest, unless our Board of Directors approved the business combination or approved the acquisition of a 10% or greater interest in us before it took place, or the business combination is approved by two-thirds of the members of our Board and holders of two-thirds of the shares that are not owned by the person or group that owns the 10% or greater interest; or (2) engage in a business combination with us until more than five years after the person or group acquires the 10% or greater interest, unless the business combination is recommended by our Board of Directors and approved by holders of 80% of our shares or of two-thirds of the shares that are not owned by the person or group that owns the 10% or greater interest. 13 ·If any person or group makes an acquisition of our shares that causes the person or group to be able to exercise between one-fifth and one-third of all voting power of our shares, between one-third and a majority of all voting power of our shares, or a majority or more of all voting power of our shares, the acquired shares will lose their voting power, except to the extent approved at a meeting by the vote of two-thirds of the shares not owned by the person or group, and we will have the right to redeem, for their fair market value, any of the acquired shares for which the shareholders do not approve voting rights. ·One third of our directors (except one, or in some circumstances two, directors designated by Shelter Development Holdings, Inc.) are elected each year to three-year terms. That could delay the time when someone who acquires voting control of us could elect a majority of our directors. The above provisions could deprive our shareholders of opportunities that might be attractive to many of them. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 