Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company’s business involves risk. The following information about these risks should be considered carefully together with other information contained in this report. The risks described below are not the only risks the Company faces. Additional risks not currently known, deemed immaterial or that could apply to any issuer may also result in adverse results for the Company’s business. As a global company, we are subject to currency fluctuations and any significant movement between the U.S. Dollar and the Euro, in particular, could have an adverse effect on our profitability. Although the Company’s financial results are reported in U.S. Dollars, a significant portion of our sales and operating costs are realized in Euros and other foreign currencies. The Company’s profitability is affected by movements of the U.S. Dollar against the Euro and the other currencies in which we generate revenues and incur expenses. Significant long-term fluctuations in relative currency values, in particular a significant change in the relative values of the U.S. Dollar or Euro, could have an adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition. Certain of the Company’s products are directly or indirectly used in oil exploration and oil drilling, and are thus dependent upon the strength of those markets and oil prices. In recent years, the Company has seen a significant growth in the sales of its products that are used in oil and energy related markets. The growth in these markets has been spurred by the rise in oil prices and the global demand for oil. In addition, there has been a substantial increase in capital investment by companies in these markets. In fiscal 2009, a significant decrease in oil prices, the demand for oil and capital investment in the oil and energy markets had an adverse effect on the sales of these products and ultimately on the Company’s profitability. While this market has recovered to historically high levels in fiscal 2011, the cyclical nature of the global oil and gas market presents the ongoing possibility of a severe cutback in demand, which would create a significant adverse effect on the sales of these products and ultimately on the Company’s profitability. Many of the Company’s product markets are cyclical in nature or are otherwise sensitive to volatile or variable factors. A downturn or weakness in overall economic activity or fluctuations in those other factors can have a material adverse effect on the Company’s overall financial performance. Historically, sales of many of the products that the Company manufactures and sells have been subject to cyclical variations caused by changes in general economic conditions and other factors. In particular, the Company sells its products to customers primarily in the pleasure craft, commercial and military marine markets, as well as in the energy and natural resources, government and industrial markets. The demand for the products may be impacted by the strength of the economy generally, governmental spending and appropriations, including security and defense outlays, fuel prices, interest rates, as well as many other factors. Adverse economic and other conditions may cause the Company's customers to forego or otherwise postpone purchases in favor of repairing existing equipment. In the event of an increase in the global demand for steel, the Company could be adversely affected if it experiences shortages of raw castings and forgings used in the manufacturing of its products. With the continued development of certain developing economies, in particular China and India, the global demand for steel has risen significantly in recent years. The Company selects its suppliers based on a number of criteria, and we expect that they will be able to support our growing needs. However, there can be no assurance that a significant increase in demand, capacity constraints or other issues experienced by the Company’s suppliers will not result in shortages or delays in their supply of raw materials to the Company. If the Company were to experience a significant or prolonged shortage of critical components from any of its suppliers, particularly those who are sole sources, and could not procure the components from other sources, the Company would be unable to meet its production schedules for some of its key products and would miss product delivery dates which would adversely affect our sales, profitability and relationships with our customers. If the Company were to lose business with any key customers, the Company’s business would be adversely affected. Although there were no customers that accounted for 10% or more of consolidated net sales in fiscal 2011, deterioration of a business relationship with one or more of the Company’s significant customers would cause its sales and profitability to be adversely affected. The Company continues to face the prospect of increasing commodity costs, including steel, other raw materials and energy that could have an adverse effect on future profitability. To date, the Company has been successful with offsetting the effects of increased commodity costs through cost reduction programs and pricing actions. However, if material prices were to continue to increase at a rate that could not be recouped through product pricing, it could potentially have an adverse effect on our future profitability. The termination of relationships with the Company’s suppliers, or the inability of such suppliers to perform, could disrupt its business and have an adverse effect on its ability to manufacture and deliver products. The Company relies on raw materials, component parts, and services supplied by outside third parties. If a supplier of significant raw materials, component parts or services were to terminate its relationship with the Company, or otherwise cease supplying raw materials, component parts, or services consistent with past practice, the Company’s ability to meet its obligations to its customers may be affected. Such a disruption with respect to numerous products, or with respect to a few significant products, could have an adverse effect on the Company’s profitability and financial condition. A significant design, manufacturing or supplier quality issue could result in recalls or other actions by the Company that could adversely affect profitability. As a manufacturer of highly engineered products, the performance, reliability and productivity of the Company’s products is one of its competitive advantages. While the Company prides itself on putting in place procedures to ensure the quality and performance of its products and suppliers, a significant quality or product issue, whether due to design, performance, manufacturing or supplier quality issue, could lead to warranty actions, scrapping of raw materials, finished goods or returned products, the deterioration in a customer relation, or other action that could adversely affect warranty and quality costs, future sales and profitability. The Company faces risks associated with its international sales and operations that could adversely affect its business, results of operations or financial condition. Sales to customers outside the United States approximated 59% of our consolidated net sales for fiscal 2011. We have international manufacturing operations in Belgium, Italy and Switzerland. In addition, we have international distribution operations in Singapore, China, Australia, Japan, Italy and Canada. Our international sales and operations are subject to a number of risks, including: Þ currency exchange rate fluctuations Þ export and import duties, changes to import and export regulations, and restrictions on the transfer of funds Þ problems with the transportation or delivery of our products Þ issues arising from cultural or language differences and labor unrest Þ longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivables Þ compliance with trade and other laws in a variety of jurisdictions Þ changes in tax law These factors could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. A material disruption at the Company’s manufacturing facilities in Racine, Wisconsin could adversely affect its ability to generate sales and meet customer demand. The majority of the Company’s manufacturing, based on fiscal 2011’s sales, came from its two facilities in Racine, Wisconsin. If operations at these facilities were to be disrupted as a result of significant equipment failures, natural disasters, power outages, fires, explosions, adverse weather conditions or other reasons, the Company’s business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Interruptions in production would increase costs and reduce sales. Any interruption in production capability could require the Company to make substantial capital expenditures to remedy the situation, which could negatively affect its profitability and financial condition. The Company maintains property damage insurance which it believes to be adequate to provide for reconstruction of its facilities and equipment, as well as business interruption insurance to mitigate losses resulting from any production interruption or shutdown caused by an insured loss. However, any recovery under this insurance policy may not offset the lost sales or increased costs that may be experienced during the disruption of operations. Lost sales may not be recoverable under the policy and long-term business disruptions could result in a loss of customers. If this were to occur, future sales levels and costs of doing business, and therefore profitability, could be adversely affected. Any failure to meet our debt obligations and satisfy financial covenants could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Beginning in 2008 and continuing into 2010, general worldwide economic conditions experienced a downturn due to the combined effects of the subprime lending crisis, general credit market crisis, collateral effects on the finance and banking industries, slower economic activity, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns. While some recovery has been seen in 2011, these conditions made it difficult for customers, vendors and the Company to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and cause U.S. and foreign businesses to slow spending on products, which delay and lengthen sales cycles. These conditions led to declining revenues in several of the Company’s divisions in fiscal 2009 and 2010. The Company’s amended revolving credit facility and senior notes agreements require it to maintain specified quarterly financial covenants such as a minimum consolidated net worth amount, a minimum EBITDA, as defined, for the most recent four fiscal quarters of $11,000,000 and a funded debt to EBITDA ratio of 3.0 or less. At June 30, 2011, the Company was in compliance with these financial covenants. Based on its annual financial plan, the Company believes that it will generate sufficient EBITDA levels throughout fiscal 2012 in order to maintain compliance with its financial covenants. However, as with all forward-looking information, there can be no assurance that the Company will achieve the planned results in future periods especially due to the significant uncertainties flowing from the current economic environment. If the Company is not able to achieve these objectives and to meet the required covenants under the agreements, the Company may require forbearance from its existing lenders in the form of waivers and/or amendments of its credit facilities or be required to arrange alternative financing. Failure to obtain relief from covenant violations or to obtain alternative financing, if necessary, would have a material adverse impact on the Company. The Company may experience negative or unforeseen tax consequences. The Company reviews the probability of the realization of our net deferred tax assets each period based on forecasts of taxable income in both the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. This review uses historical results, projected future operating results based upon approved business plans, eligible carryforward periods, tax planning opportunities and other relevant considerations. Adverse changes in the profitability and financial outlook in the U.S. or foreign jurisdictions may require the creation of a valuation allowance to reduce our net deferred tax assets. Such changes could result in material non-cash expenses in the period in which the changes are made and could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 