Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Associated with Endocare’s Business We have a limited operating history with significant losses and can give no assurances when or whether we will ever be profitable or have capital sufficient to sustain our operations. We have yet to establish any history of profitable operations. We have incurred losses from operations of $8.6 million, $9.3 million, and $15.4 million, respectively, during the fiscal years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006. As a result, at December 31, 2008 and 2007 we had an accumulated deficit of $198.2 million and $189.8 million, respectively. We have incurred net losses from continuing operations of $8.4 million, $8.9 million, and $11.1 million respectively, during the fiscal years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. We had an operating cash flow deficit of $8.1 million, $4.6 million, and $13.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006. As of December 31, 2008, we had cash and cash equivalents of $2.7 million. To date, our revenues have not been sufficient to sustain our operations. We expect that our revenues as a standalone company will not be sufficient to sustain our operations for the foreseeable future. We can give no assurances when or whether we will ever be profitable. As a result of our recurring losses from operations and limited capital resources, our independent registered public accounting firm’s report on our financial statements as of and for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 includes an explanatory paragraph expressing substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have historically financed our operations and growth through borrowings and equity financings. In the short term, we expect to use existing cash reserves and working capital through the sale of our products, and if the Merger and Financing are consummated, the proceeds of the Financing, to finance our projected operating and cash flow needs. However, our cash needs are not entirely predictable, and additional cash may be required, including from our bank credit facility. Furthermore, inclusion of a “going concern qualification” in the report of our independent registered public accountants may have a negative impact on our ability to raise additional capital and may adversely impact our stock price. The credit facility is currently scheduled to expire on May 27, 2009. Upon termination of the credit facility, we may not be able to renew our credit facility or replace the funds that are available under the credit facility. Our credit facility contains a minimum tangible net worth covenant measured on a monthly basis. We were not in compliance with this covenant as of December 31, 2008 and January 31, 2009. In connection with the extension we executed on February 26, 2009, the bank granted us a waiver of the noncompliance, redefined the tangible net worth requirement and established a new lower tangible net worth covenant for the months from February through April 2009. We are in discussions with the lender to obtain more permanent long-term financing although such financing may not be available or available on terms acceptable to us. We may not have sufficient capital to fund our ongoing operations. In addition, in the event that our available cash drops below $1.0 million for more than ten business days, Galil has the right to terminate the Merger Agreement. Our business may be materially and adversely impacted by the loss of our largest customer or the reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from this customer; in addition, our business may be materially and adversely impacted if this customer delays payment or fails to pay for products. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, our largest customer accounted for 37% of our revenues, and as of December 31, 2008 this customer accounted for 40.4% of our accounts receivable. Our sales to this customer may 15 Table of Contents be materially and adversely impacted by various factors relating to this customer’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially and adversely impacted by the loss of this customer, or the reduction, delay or cancellation of orders by this customer. In addition, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially and adversely impacted if this customer delays payment or fails to pay for products sold. This customer is not obligated to purchase a specific quantity of our products or provide binding forecasts of purchases for any period. We may be required to make tax payments that exceed our settlement estimates, which may result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As of December 31, 2006, 2007, and 2008 we estimated that we owed $2.8 million, $2.2 million, and $2.2 million, respectively, as of each balance sheet date in state and local taxes, primarily sales and use taxes, in various jurisdictions in the United States. We are in the process of negotiating resolutions of the past due tax obligations with the applicable tax authorities. While we hope that these obligations can be settled for less than the amounts accrued, we cannot predict whether we will obtain favorable settlement terms from the various tax authorities, or that after settling, we will satisfy the conditions necessary to avoid violating the settlements. Our failure to obtain favorable settlement terms or to satisfy the settlement conditions may result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our facilities and systems are vulnerable to natural disasters or other catastrophic events, which could interrupt our operations for an extended period of time, and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our headquarters, cryoablation products manufacturing facilities, research facilities and much of our infrastructure, including computer servers, are located in California, an area that is susceptible to earthquakes, fires and other natural disasters. A natural disaster or other catastrophic event, such as an earthquake, fire, flood, severe storm, break-in, terrorist attack or other comparable problems could cause interruptions or delays in our business and loss of data or render us unable to accept and fulfill customer orders in a timely manner, or at all. We have no formal disaster recovery plan and our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur. In the event that an earthquake, or other natural disaster or other catastrophic event were to destroy any part of our facilities or interrupt our operations for any extended period of time, or if harsh weather conditions prevent us from delivering products in a timely manner, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Associated with an Investment in Endocare’s Common Stock The market price of our common stock is highly volatile. The market price of our common stock has been and is expected to continue to be highly volatile in the future. This volatility is in response to a number of factors, including: • announcements of technological innovations by us or other companies; • regulatory matters; • new or existing products or procedures; • concerns about our financial position and operating results; • litigation developments; • government regulation; • developments or disputes relating to agreements, patents or proprietary rights; • differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors and analysts; • fluctuations in our results of operations; • changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections; 16 Table of Contents • changes in general valuations for medical device companies; • changes in general economic or market conditions; and • broad market fluctuations. As a result of any of these factors the market price of our common stock may fall abruptly and significantly. Moreover, recently the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons often unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating results. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on your investment in our common stock. As a result, you could lose some or all of your investment. Historically our common stock has a low trading volume and any sale of a significant number of shares is likely to depress the trading price. Our common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. Traditionally, the trading volume of our common stock has fluctuated significantly. Because of this periodic and limited trading volume, our stockholders may not be able to sell quickly any significant number of shares of our common stock, and any attempted sale of a large number of our shares may have a material adverse impact on the price of our common stock. In addition, the price per share is subject to volatility and may continue to be subject to rapid and significant price swings in the future. Future sales of shares of our common stock, or the perception of significant future sales, may negatively affect our stock price. We had an aggregate of [ • ] shares of common stock outstanding as of [ • ], 2009. After the Merger and the Financing are consummated, we expect to have an aggregate of [ • ] shares of our common stock outstanding, including the Escrow Shares. The 16,250,000 shares of our common stock expected to be issued in the Financing will initially be subject to restrictions on transfer. Future sales of our common stock, including shares issued in the Financing, shares issues upon the exercise of outstanding options and warrants, sales of equity related securities, or hedging or other derivative transactions with respect to our common stock, could have a significant negative effect on the market price of our common stock. These sales, or anticipated sales, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we would deem appropriate or necessary. Investors in our financing consummated in March 2005 received warrants to purchase an aggregate of 657,446 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $10.50 per share and 657,446 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $12.00 per share. These warrants have an anti-dilution clause that in certain circumstances reduces the effective exercise price of the warrants and proportionately increases the number of shares underlying the warrants. As a result of our issuance of shares of common stock in the Financing and prior issuances, the exercise price of the Series A Warrants will be decreased to $5.41 and provide holders the right to purchase an additional 618,130 shares and the exercise price of the Series B Warrants will be decreased to $6.07 and provide holders the right to purchase an additional 642,834 shares. We entered into registration rights agreements in connection with other recent financings, and will enter into a registration rights agreement in connection with the Financing, in each case pursuant to which we agreed or will agree to register for resale by the investors the shares of common stock issued. The sale or anticipated sale of shares covered by these registration statements could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our shares. If Endocare fails to meet all applicable continued listing requirements of the NASDAQ Capital Market and NASDAQ determines to delist Endocare’s common stock, the market liquidity and market price of Endocare’s common stock could decline. Our common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. In order to maintain that listing, Endocare must satisfy minimum financial and other listing requirements. In addition, the issuance of Endocare common stock in the Merger and the Financing may constitute a “change of control” for purposes of NASDAQ 17 Table of Contents Marketplace Rule 4340(a). Whether a “change of control” exists under NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4340(a) is a facts and circumstances determination that is currently being undertaken by NASDAQ based on an evaluation of certain factors, such as changes in Endocare’s management, board of directors, voting power, ownership and financial structure as a result of the Merger and the Financing. If NASDAQ determines that the Merger and the Financing constitute a change of control of Endocare, Endocare will be required to submit a new original listing application with NASDAQ and comply with the NASDAQ Capital Market initial listing requirements, including a $4.00 minimum bid price, in order for Endocare’s common stock to continue to be listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market after consummation of the Merger and the Financing. In addition, NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(4) sets a minimum per share price of $1.00 for continued listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market. Endocare’s common stock has traded below $4.00 since July 21, 2008, and below $1.00 since November 29, 2008. The closing price of Endocare’s common stock as of [ • ], 2009 was $[ • ]. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that Endocare will be able to retain its listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market if NASDAQ determines that the Merger and the Financing constitute a “change of control” or determines to delist Endocare for failure to meet the $1.00 minimum bid price for continued listing. If Endocare fails to meet all applicable listing requirements of the NASDAQ Capital Market at any time and NASDAQ determines to delist its common stock, an active trading market for Endocare’s common stock may not be sustained and the market price of Endocare’s common stock could decline. If an active trading market for Endocare’s common stock is not sustained, it will be difficult for Endocare’s stockholders to sell shares of Endocare’s common stock without further depressing the market price of such common stock, if at all. A delisting of Endocare’s common stock also could make it more difficult for Endocare to obtain financing for the continuation of operations and could result in the loss of confidence by investors, suppliers and employees. The anti-takeover provisions in our charter, our stockholder rights plan and certain provisions of Delaware law could prevent a third party from acquiring us or limit the price that investors may be willing to pay for shares of our common stock. Provisions of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended and our amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of Endocare. Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. Depending on the rights and terms of any series of preferred stock created, and the reaction of the market to the series, the rights or the value of your Endocare common stock could be negatively affected. For example, subject to applicable law, the board of directors could create a series of preferred stock with preferential rights to dividends or assets upon liquidation, or with superior voting rights to the existing common stock. In addition, we have adopted a stockholder rights plan in which preferred stock purchase rights were distributed as a dividend. The stockholder rights plan is currently scheduled to terminate on April 15, 2009. These provisions may prevent or delay a third party from acquiring us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. We are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Subject to specified exceptions, this section provides that a corporation may not engage in any business combination with any interested stockholder during the three-year period following the time that such stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. This provision could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of Endocare. The foregoing factors could reduce the price that investors or an acquirer might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Our board of directors has taken all action necessary to exempt Galil’s shareholders and the purchasers in the Financing from the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law as it relates to shares of Endocare common stock acquired in the Merger and the Financing. The issuance of common stock in the Merger and the Financing will trigger an ownership change that will negatively impact our ability to utilize net operating loss and capital loss deferred tax assets in the future. As of December 31, 2008, we had a domestic federal net operating loss carryforward of approximately $131.1 million. Companies are subject to a change of ownership test under Section 382 of the Code that, if met, can 18 Table of Contents limit the annual utilization of the carryforward. We believe such test will be met as a result of the issuance of common stock in the Merger and Financing. Generally, under that section, the yearly limitation on our ability to utilize such deductions will be equal to the product of the applicable long term tax exempt rate (presently 5.49 percent) and the value of our common stock immediately before the ownership change. Our ability to utilize depreciation deductions during the five-year period following the ownership change would also be limited under Section 382, together with NOLs, to the extent that such deductions reflect a net loss that was “built-in” to our assets immediately prior to the ownership change. Similar rules under Section 383 of the Code will also limit our ability to utilize capital loss carryforwards. As of December 31, 2008, we had domestic federal capital loss carryforwards of approximately $39.6 million. Because an ownership change will be triggered as a result of the issuance of common stock in the Merger and the Financing, our ability to use the net operating loss carryforward and capital loss carryforwards to offset future income will be substantially limited. Therefore, we may suffer higher-than-anticipated tax expense, and consequently lower net income, in those future years. Risks Related to the Merger If the proposed Merger with Galil is consummated, Endocare’s business could suffer materially and Endocare’s stock price could decline. Subject to receipt of regulatory approvals, including the closing of the pending investigation by the FTC, and approvals by Endocare stockholders and Galil shareholders, Endocare is seeking to close the transactions in the second quarter of 2009. If the proposed Merger is consummated, Endocare may be subject to a number of material risks, and its business could be adversely affected, including the following: • some of Endocare’s suppliers, distributors and other business partners may seek to adversely change or terminate their relationships with Endocare as a result of the consummation of the Merger; • as a result of the consummation of the Merger, current and prospective employees could experience uncertainty about their future roles within the combined company, and this uncertainty may adversely affect Endocare’s ability to retain its key employees, who may seek other employment opportunities; • as a result of the Merger, Endocare may assume significant known and unknown liabilities of Galil, including liabilities with respect to taxes; and • Endocare’s management team may be distracted from day to day operations as a result of the consummation of the Merger and the required integration processes. We can give no assurance that we will be able to successfully complete and integrate the acquisition of Galil. In addition, the market price of Endocare’s common stock after the Merger may decline for a number of other reasons, including if: • the combined company does not achieve the perceived benefits of the Merger as rapidly or to the extent anticipated, if at all, by the combined company or financial or industry analysts; • the dilution of Endocare’s outstanding common stock as a result of the issuance of shares of common stock in the Merger and the Financing may negatively affect the trading price of Endocare’s common stock; or • the effect of the Merger on the combined company’s business and prospects is not consistent with the expectations of financial or industry analysts. The Merger may be completed even though material adverse changes may result from the announcement of the Merger, industry-wide changes and other causes. In general, either party can refuse to complete the Merger if there is a material adverse change affecting the other party between the date of the Merger Agreement and the closing. However, some types of changes do not 19 Table of Contents permit either party to refuse to complete the Merger, even if such changes would have a material adverse effect on Endocare or Galil, including the following: • changes or proposed changes in law or accounting standards or interpretations thereof applicable to Endocare or Galil; provided that such changes do not have a materially disproportionate effect on Endocare or Galil, as the case may be, relative to other companies operating in their industry; • changes in global, national or regional economic or political conditions (including acts of war (whether or not declared), armed hostilities, sabotage, military actions or the escalation thereof (whether underway on the date of execution of the Merger Agreement or thereafter commenced), and terrorism) or in general financial, credit, business, or securities market conditions, including changes in interest rates or the availability of credit financing; provided that such changes do not have a materially disproportionate effect on Endocare or Galil, as the case may be, relative to other companies operating in their industry; • changes generally applicable in the industries in which Endocare and Galil operate; • any failure of Endocare or Galil, as the case may be, to meet internal or analysts’ estimates, projections or forecasts of revenues, earnings or other financial or business metrics (it being understood that the cause of any such failure may be taken into consideration when determining whether a material adverse change has occurred or would be reasonably likely to occur); or • a decline in the market price, or a change in the trading volume, of the capital stock of Endocare (it being understood that the cause of any such decline or change may be taken into consideration when determining whether a material adverse change has occurred or would be reasonably likely to occur). If adverse changes occur but Endocare and Galil must still complete the Merger, the combined company’s operating results and financial condition may be materially and adversely impacted and Endocare’s stock price may suffer. Ownership of Endocare’s common stock may be highly concentrated after consummation of the Merger and the Financing. After consummation of the Merger and the Financing, certain stockholders will have beneficial ownership of significant blocks of Endocare’s outstanding common stock. Such stockholders, acting individually or as a group, will have substantial influence over the outcome of a corporate action of Endocare requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any approval of a merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of Endocare’s assets or any other significant corporate transaction, even if the outcome sought by such stockholders is not in the interest of Endocare’s other stockholders. These stockholders, acting as a group, may also delay or prevent a change in control of Endocare, even if such change in control would benefit the other stockholders of Endocare. In addition, pursuant to the Stock Purchase Agreement, if a purchaser defaults on its obligation to purchase shares in the Financing, the other parties to the Stock Purchase Agreement may acquire the defaulting party’s shares up to a maximum of 35% of the then outstanding shares of Endocare common stock after the Merger and the Financing. This could result in one or more stockholders owning more shares of Endocare’s outstanding common stock than currently expected. The significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the value of Endocare’s common stock due to investors’ perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. The required repayment of pre-merger bridge financing of Galil will decrease the funds available to Endocare after consummation of the Merger and the Financing. Galil’s revenues have not been sufficient to sustain its operations, and Galil has secured additional required funds through bridge loans from certain current shareholders of Galil, which will be repaid out of the proceeds of the Financing. As of March 4, 2009, the amount of such bridge financing is $1.4 million. Galil may be required to seek additional external funding from such date until the closing of the Merger through one or more additional bridge loans. It is expected that such loans would also be repaid out of the proceeds of the Financing, which would reduce the amount of funds available to Endocare after consummation of the Merger and the Financing. The amounts to be repaid will include interest, which accrues at 18% per annum compounding monthly. 20 Table of Contents Antitrust authorities may attempt to delay or prevent consummation of the Merger. Although Endocare is not required to make a pre-merger filing under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 (the “HSR Act”) with the FTC and Antitrust Division of the United States Department of Justice (the “DOJ”), the FTC has opened an investigation into whether the proposed Merger violates Section 7 of the Clayton Act, as amended, 15 U.S.C. §18, or Section 5 of the FTC Act, as amended, 15 U.S.C. §48. The parties are cooperating fully with the FTC’s investigation and are in the process of providing the FTC with information and materials. Endocare cannot provide any assurance that the FTC or DOJ will not place restrictions on the Merger or that there will not be any adverse consequences to the business of Endocare or Galil resulting from conditions that could be imposed in connection with any actions taken by the FTC or DOJ, including required licensing, divestitures or operating restrictions upon Endocare or the combined company. In addition, Endocare cannot provide any assurance that the FTC’s investigation will not delay or prevent consummation of the Merger. The Merger is conditioned upon (i) the lack of any governmental authority being in the process of investigating or conducting proceedings regarding the Merger, the Merger Agreement or transactions contemplated thereby that upon reasonable determination by Endocare or Galil would lead to the consummation of the Merger being enjoined and (ii) no court or other authority prohibiting the consummation of the Merger. Endocare may assume significant tax liabilities of Galil with respect to which it may be dependent on third parties for indemnification or for which it may not be entitled to indemnification at all. Endocare may assume significant potential tax liabilities of Galil in connection with the Merger, which, if adversely determined, could be substantial. While certain major shareholders of Galil have agreed to indemnify Endocare for any losses incurred by Endocare arising from certain specified tax liabilities assumed in the Merger in excess of $2 million, Endocare is not entitled to indemnification for the amount of any such tax liability incurred in an amount less than $2 million, except to the extent of the value of the Escrow Shares remaining in the indemnity escrow fund pursuant to the Merger Agreement, at the time a claim for indemnification is made. In addition, Endocare cannot be assured that the Galil shareholders that have agreed to indemnify Endocare for such tax liabilities will have the resources to pay it in such event, or that Endocare will be able to recover such amounts. Endocare’s stockholders and Galil’s shareholders may not realize a benefit from the Merger commensurate with the ownership dilution they will experience in connection with the Merger and the Financing. If the combined company is unable to realize the strategic and financial benefits currently anticipated from the Merger, Endocare’s stockholders and Galil’s shareholders will have experienced substantial dilution of their ownership interest in connection with the Merger and the Financing without receiving any commensurate benefit. During the pendency of the Merger, Endocare may not be able to implement desirable business decisions or enter into a business combination with another party because of restrictions in the Merger Agreement. Covenants in the Merger Agreement impede the ability of Endocare to take any actions that are not in the ordinary course of business pending completion of the Merger. As a result, whether or not the Merger is completed, Endocare may be at a disadvantage to its competitors. In addition, while the Merger Agreement is in effect, and subject to limited exceptions, Endocare is prohibited from soliciting, initiating, encouraging or taking actions designed to facilitate any inquiries or the making of any proposal or offer that could lead to entering into certain extraordinary transactions with any third party, such as a sale of assets, an acquisition of Endocare’s common stock, a tender offer for Endocare’s common stock, or a merger or other business combination outside the ordinary course of business, whether or not any such transactions are favorable to Endocare’s stockholders. The lack of a public market for Galil’s shares makes it difficult to evaluate the fairness of the Merger consideration payable to the Galil shareholders, and the Galil shareholders may receive consideration in the Merger that is greater than the fair market value of Galil’s shares. The outstanding capital stock of Galil is privately held and is not traded in any public market. The lack of a public market makes it extremely difficult to determine the fair market value of Galil. Since the percentage of 21 Table of Contents Endocare’s equity to be issued to Galil’s shareholders was determined based on negotiations between the parties, it is possible that the value of Endocare’s common stock to be issued in connection with the Merger will be greater than the fair market value of Galil. If any of the events described in “Risks Associated with Endocare’s Business,” “Risks Related to Galil” or “Risks Related to Endocare and the Combined Company and the Industry in Which They Will Operate” occur, those events could cause the potential benefits of the Merger not to be realized. Following the effective time of the Merger, the combined company will be susceptible to many of the risks described in the sections herein entitled “Risks Associated with Endocare’s Business,” “Risks Related to Galil” and “Risks Related to Endocare and the Combined Company and the Industry in Which They Will Operate.” To the extent any of the events in the risks described in those sections occur, those events could cause the potential benefits of the Merger not to be realized and the market price of the combined company’s common stock to decline. If the proposed Merger with Galil is not consummated, Endocare’s business could suffer materially and Endocare’s stock price could decline. The consummation of the proposed Merger with Galil is subject to a number of closing conditions. Subject to receipt of regulatory approvals, including the closing of the pending investigation by the FTC, and approvals by Endocare stockholders and Galil shareholders, Endocare is seeking to close the transaction in the second quarter of 2009. If the Merger is not consummated, Endocare may be subject to a number of material risks, and its business and stock price could be adversely affected, as follows: • Endocare has incurred and expects to continue to incur significant expenses related to the proposed Merger with Galil even if the Merger is not ultimately consummated; • The Merger Agreement contains covenants relating to Endocare’s solicitation of competing acquisition proposals and the conduct of Endocare’s business between the date of signing the Merger Agreement and the closing of the Merger. As a result, significant business decisions and transactions outside of the ordinary course of business before the closing of the Merger require the consent of Galil. Accordingly, Endocare may be unable to pursue business opportunities that would otherwise be in its best interest as a standalone company; • if the Merger Agreement is terminated after Endocare has invested significant time and resources in the transaction process, Endocare will have a limited ability to continue its current operations without obtaining additional financing to fund its operations; • The Financing is conditioned upon the consummation of the Merger and, thus, if the Merger is not consummated, Endocare may be forced to seek financing on less favorable terms or may not be able to secure financing at all, which may require Endocare to reduce or terminate operations; • Endocare could be obligated to pay Galil a $900,000 termination fee and to reimburse Galil for its expenses incurred in connection with the Merger and the Financing up to $850,000, as a result of the termination of the Merger Agreement, depending on the reason for the termination; and • Endocare’s customers, prospective customers, employees and other business partners, and investors in general, may view the failure to consummate the Merger as a poor reflection on Endocare’s business or prospects. Risks Related to Galil Galil is incorporated under the laws of, and its principal offices are located in, the State of Israel and therefore its business operations may be harmed by adverse political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel. Galil is incorporated under the laws of, and its principal executive offices and research and development facilities are located in, the State of Israel. In addition, some of its subcontractors are located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel may directly affect its business. The Israeli economy has 22 Table of Contents suffered in the past and may suffer in the future from instability, which may adversely affect Galil’s financial condition and results of operations. Following the recession and the instability that characterized the Israeli economy during the years 2001 and 2003, the Israeli economy showed signs of improvement during 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007. The Israeli economy has also been subject to significant changes, as a result of implementation of new economic policies and privatization. If the results of these changes are unsuccessful or the economic situation in Israel deteriorates, it may also adversely affect Galil’s financial conditions, its results of operations and its ability to obtain financing from Israeli banks. In addition, since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have occurred between Israel and its Arab neighbors. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could affect adversely Galil’s operations. Since October 2000, terrorist violence in Israel has increased significantly, primarily in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, and Israel has experienced terrorist incidents within its borders. Recently, there has been a further escalation in violence among Israel, Hamas, the Palestinian Authority and other groups. In addition, since July 2006, there have been extensive hostilities along Israel’s northern border with Lebanon and in the Gaza Strip. Since June 2007, the Hamas militant group has taken over the Gaza Strip from the Palestinian Authority, and the hostilities along Israel’s border with the Gaza Strip have increased. Beginning in late December of 2008, open hostilities between Israel and Hamas in the Gaza Strip have intensified significantly. Ongoing and increased hostilities or other Israeli political or economic factors could harm Galil’s operations and product development and cause its sales to decrease. Furthermore, several countries still restrict business with Israel and Israeli companies. These restrictive laws and policies may seriously limit Galil’s ability, and that of the combined company, to sell its products in these countries. Galil has a limited operating history with significant losses. Galil has yet to establish any history of profitable operations. Galil has incurred losses from operations of $30.1 million, $9.9 million, $1.9 million, respectively, during the fiscal years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. The loss of $30.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 includes a one-time non-cash charge of $16.8 million relating to goodwill impairment. As a result, at December 31, 2008, Galil had an accumulated deficit of $76.2 million. Galil has incurred net losses of $30.4 million, $9.5 million and $13.0 million, respectively, during the fiscal years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006. Galil had an operating cash flow deficit of $11.3 million, $3.8 million and $0.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. As of December 31, 2008, Galil had cash and cash equivalents of $2.5 million. As a result of Galil’s recurring operating losses and negative cash flows from operating activities, among other matters, Galil’s independent registered public accounting firm’s report on its financial statements as of and for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 includes an explanatory paragraph expressing substantial doubt about Galil’s ability to continue as a going concern. To date, Galil’s revenues have not been sufficient to sustain Galil’s operations. Galil expects that its revenues as a standalone company will not be sufficient to sustain its operations for the foreseeable future. There can be no assurances as to when or whether Galil will ever be profitable. Tax benefits Galil receives through operating in Israel may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase Galil’s costs. If Galil generates income, it may be able to take advantage of tax exemptions and reductions resulting from the “Approved Enterprise” and “Benefited Enterprise” status of Galil’s facilities in Israel. To remain eligible for these tax benefits, Galil must continue to meet certain conditions, including making specified investments in property and equipment. If Galil fails to meet these conditions in the future, the tax benefits would be canceled. In addition, these tax benefits may not be continued in the future at their current levels or at any level. The termination or reduction of these tax benefits may increase Galil’s expenses in the future, which would reduce its expected profits or increase its losses. Additionally, if Galil increases its activities outside of Israel, the increased activities generally will not be eligible for inclusion in Israeli tax benefit programs. Under the original approved plan, Galil enjoyed a tax holiday for the years 2001 through 2003. On January 1, 2004 the plan was cancelled. A base turnover was determined at 23 Table of Contents $2.5 million dollars. Galil received the Investment Center’s approval for its second plan and will be entitled to a tax holiday for 10 years commencing on the first year of taxable income (but not later than the year 2016). On September 2007, Galil applied to the Israeli tax authority for approval of a new “Benefited Enterprise” status and requested the year 2007 to be the year of election. Galil expects to receive the taxation decision soon. The Israeli government grants Galil has received for research and development expenditures restrict its ability to manufacture products and transfer technologies outside of Israel and require it to satisfy specified conditions. Until 2003, Galil received grants totaling $2.3 million from the government of Israel through the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor (“OCS”), including the Magnet Division, for the financing of a portion of its research and development expenditures for its cryoablation products. Under Israeli law, Galil is prohibited from manufacturing products incorporating know-how developed with grants from the OCS outside of Israel, unless prior approval of a governmental committee is obtained. Even if Galil receives approval to manufacture its products outside of Israel, it may be required to pay an increased total amount of royalties, which may be up to 300% of the aggregate grants amount plus interest (less royalties which have been paid to date), depending on the manufacturing volume that is performed outside of Israel. These restrictions may impair its ability to outsource manufacturing or engage in similar arrangements for those products or technologies. In addition, Galil is prohibited from transferring to third parties the technology developed with these grants without the prior approval of a governmental committee and, possibly, the payment of a fee. Galil’s operations may be disrupted by the obligation of its personnel to perform military service. Some of Galil’s officers and employees in Israel are obligated to perform annual military reserve duty in the Israeli Defense Forces and may be called to active duty under emergency circumstances at any time. If a military conflict or war arises, these individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. Galil’s operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of its officers or key employees or a significant number of its other employees due to reserve duty. Any such disruption in Galil’s operations may harm its business. Galil is subject to risks arising from currency exchange rates, which could increase its costs and may have a negative effect on its results of operations. A majority of Galil’s revenues and a substantial portion of its expenses are denominated in U.S. dollars. However, a small portion of its revenues and a portion of its costs, including manufacturing and research and development, are incurred in New Israeli Shekels and Euro. Inflation in Israel or Europe or a weakening of the U.S. dollar against other currencies may have the effect of increasing the U.S. dollar cost of Galil’s operations in that jurisdiction, which may have a material adverse impact on its results of operations. During 2007, the New Israeli Shekel appreciated against the U.S. dollar by approximately 9%, which contributed to a significant increase in the U.S. dollar cost of Galil’s operations in Israel. In addition, during 2007, the Euro appreciated against the U.S. dollar by approximately 11.7%, which contributed to a significant increase in the U.S. dollar cost of Galil’s operations in Europe. During 2008 the New Israeli Shekel appreciated against the U.S. dollar by approximately 2%, and the Euro depreciated against the U.S. dollar by approximately 5%. If the U.S. dollar continues to decline in value in relation to one or more of these currencies, it will become more expensive for Galil to fund its operations in the jurisdictions that use those other currencies. Although Galil may use hedging techniques to reduce the risk associated with fluctuations in currency exchange rates, it may not be able to eliminate the effects of currency fluctuations. Thus, exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse impact on Galil’s results of operations. 24 Table of Contents Risks Related to Endocare and the Combined Company and the Industry in Which They Will Operate We may require additional financing in the future to sustain our operations and without it we may not be able to continue operations. Endocare and Galil have each historically incurred losses from operations and experienced negative cash flows. As of December 31, 2008, Endocare and Galil had combined cash and cash equivalents of $5.1 million. We currently anticipate that the cash proceeds from the Financing will provide the combined company sufficient cash to enable it to reach positive adjusted EBITDA. However, we can give no assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate the acquisition of Galil and achieve positive adjusted EBITDA, or that this will be done without the need for additional capital. In addition, as a result of each of Endocare’s and Galil’s historical operating losses, among other matters, the reports of each company’s respective independent registered public accountant on the companies’ financial statements as of and for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 included an explanatory paragraph expressing substantial doubt about each company’s ability to continue as a going concern. As a result, we may be required to seek additional capital, whether from sales of equity or by borrowing money, to fund our operations. The availability of additional capital, whether from private capital sources (including banks) or the public capital markets, fluctuates as market conditions change. There may be times when the private capital markets and the public debt or equity markets lack sufficient liquidity or when our securities cannot be sold at attractive prices, in which case we would not be able to access capital from these sources. In addition, a weakening of our financial condition or strength could adversely affect our ability to obtain necessary funds. Even if available, additional financing could be costly or have adverse consequences. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of stock, dilution to stockholders will result. In addition, our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, also authorizes our board of directors to issue “blank check” preferred stock without stockholder approval. If any such series of preferred stock was created, depending on the rights and terms of any new series created, and the reaction of the market to the series, the rights or the value of our common stock could be negatively affected. If additional funds are raised through the incurrence of debt, we will incur increased debt servicing costs and may become subject to additional restrictive financial and other covenants. We can give no assurance as to the terms or availability of additional capital. In addition, under our current credit agreement with Silicon Valley Bank, which expires on May 27, 2009, funds available for borrowing under this facility are based on eligible trade receivables and inventory as defined therein. The credit agreement contains a subjective acceleration clause and a requirement to maintain a lockbox with the lender to which all receivable collections are deposited. Under the subjective acceleration clause, the lender may accelerate repayment of amounts borrowed and/or cease making advances to us if it determines that a material adverse change has occurred in our business or our ability to meet our obligations under the credit agreement. In addition, the proceeds from the lockbox will be applied to reduce the outstanding borrowings upon an event of default (including the occurrence of a material adverse change) or if trigger events occur. Our ability to access funds under the credit agreement is subject to our ability to meet all restrictive covenants and comply with all representations and warranties. Our success is reliant on the acceptance by doctors and patients of our cryoablation systems as a preferred treatment for tumor ablation. Cryoablation has existed for many years, but has not been widely accepted primarily due to concerns regarding safety and efficacy and widespread use of alternative therapies. Because the technology previously lacked precise monitoring capabilities, prostate cryoablation procedures performed in the 1970’s resulted in high cancer recurrence and negative side effects, such as rectal fistulae and incontinence, and gave cryoablation treatment negative publicity. To overcome these negative side effects, we have developed ultrasound guidance and temperature sensing to enable more precise monitoring in our cryoablation systems. Nevertheless, we need to overcome the earlier negative publicity associated with cryoablation in order to obtain market acceptance for our products. In addition, use of our cryoablation systems requires significant physician education and training. As a result, we may have difficulty obtaining adoption of the technology and recommendations and endorsements of physicians and patients 25 Table of Contents for our cryoablation systems. We may also have difficulty raising the brand awareness necessary to generate interest in our cryoablation systems. Any adverse side effects, including impotence or incontinence, recurrence of cancer or future reported adverse events or other unfavorable publicity involving patient outcomes from the use of cryoablation, whether from our products or the products of our competitors, could adversely affect acceptance of cryoablation. In addition, emerging new technologies and procedures to treat prostate cancer may negatively affect the market acceptance of cryoablation. If our cryoablation systems do not achieve broad market acceptance, we will likely remain unprofitable. If we are unable to continue to enhance our cryoablation systems, our business will suffer. Our growth depends in part on continued ability to successfully develop, manufacture and commercialize enhancements to our cryoablation systems. We may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, manufacturing and commercialization of these products. As a result of our financial condition, we have had to forgo making investments in research and development expenditures, and in some cases have had to eliminate projects and reduce spending. Our products in development may not prove safe and effective in clinical trials. Clinical trials may identify significant technical or other obstacles that must be overcome before obtaining necessary regulatory or reimbursement approvals. In addition, our competitors may succeed in developing commercially viable products or alternative technologies that render our products obsolete or less attractive. Failure to successfully develop, manufacture and commercialize new products and enhancements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our intangible assets could become impaired. Intangible assets acquired in a purchase, such as intellectual property or developed technology, are generally amortized over various periods depending on their anticipated economic benefits or useful lives. Long-lived assets, including amortizable intangibles, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to undiscounted future net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. Following a review, if such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying value of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets. Any impairment could have a material adverse effect on our financial conditions and results of operations. Significant estimates, including assumptions regarding future events and circumstances that cannot be easily predicted, are required to perform an analysis of the value of intangible assets. These estimates and assumptions may differ materially from actual outcomes and occurrences. We are faced with intense competition and rapid technological and industry change, which may make it more difficult for us to achieve significant market penetration. The medical device industry generally, and the cancer treatment market in particular, are characterized by rapid technological change, changing customer needs and frequent new product introductions. If our competitors’ existing products or new products are more effective than or considered superior to our products, the commercial opportunity for our products will be reduced or eliminated. We face intense competition from companies offering other treatment options, including radical prostatectomy, radiation therapy and hormone therapy. If we are successful in penetrating the market for treatment of prostate cancer with our cryoablation treatment, other medical device companies may be attracted to the marketplace. Many of our competitors and potential competitors are significantly larger than we are and have greater financial, technical, research, marketing, sales, distribution and other resources than we do. We believe there will be intense price competition for products developed to treat cancer. Our competitors may develop or market technologies and products that are more effective or commercially attractive than any that we are developing or marketing. Our competitors may obtain regulatory approval and introduce and commercialize products before we do. These developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Even if we are able to compete successfully, we may not be able to do so in a profitable manner. 26 Table of Contents There is uncertainty relating to third-party reimbursement, which is critical to market acceptance of our products. Hospitals and other health care providers in the United States generally rely on third-party payers, principally federal Medicare, state Medicaid and private health insurance plans, to reimburse all or part of the cost of medical procedures involving our products. While private health insurers in some areas of the United States provide reimbursement for procedures in which our products are used, we can provide no assurance that private insurance reimbursement will be adopted nationally or by additional insurers. Furthermore, those private insurance companies currently paying for procedures in which our products are used may terminate such coverage. If reimbursement levels from Medicare, Medicaid, other governmental health care programs or private insurers are not sufficient, physicians may choose not to recommend, and patients may not choose, procedures using our products. International market acceptance of our products may depend, in part, upon the availability of reimbursement within prevailing health care payment systems. Reimbursement and health care payment systems in international markets vary significantly by country, and include both government sponsored health care and private insurance. We may not obtain international reimbursement approvals in a timely manner, if at all, and international reimbursement approvals, once obtained, may be subsequently withdrawn or reduced. Our failure to receive and maintain international reimbursement approvals may negatively impact market acceptance of our products in the international markets in which those approvals are sought. From time to time significant attention has been focused on reforming the health care system in the United States and other countries. Any changes in Medicare, Medicaid or third-party medical expense reimbursement, which may arise from health care reform, may have a material adverse effect on reimbursement for our products or procedures in which our products are used and may reduce the price we are able to charge for our products. In addition, changes to the health care system may also affect the commercial acceptance of products we are currently developing and products we may develop in the future. Potential changes that have been considered include controls on health care spending and price controls. Several proposals have been made in the United States Congress and various state legislatures recently that, if adopted, would potentially reduce health care spending, which may result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitors may take advantage of our ideas and compete directly against us. Our success will depend to a significant degree on our ability to secure and protect intellectual property rights and to enforce patent and trademark protections relating to our technology. From time to time, litigation may be advisable to protect our intellectual property position. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. Any litigation in this regard could be costly, and it is possible that we will not have sufficient resources to fully pursue litigation or to protect our other intellectual property rights. Litigation could result in the rejection or invalidation of our existing and future patents. Any adverse outcome in litigation relating to the validity of our patents, or any failure to pursue litigation or otherwise to protect our patent position, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Also, even if we prevail in litigation, the litigation would be costly in terms of management distraction as well as in terms of cash resources. In addition, confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, customers, and key vendors may not prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technology. It is possible that these agreements could be breached or that they might not be enforceable in every instance, and that we might not have adequate remedies for any such breach. Enforcement of these agreements may be costly and time consuming. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Because the medical device industry is litigious, we may be sued for allegedly violating the intellectual property rights of others. The medical technology industry has in the past been characterized by a substantial amount of litigation and related administrative proceedings regarding patents and intellectual property rights. In addition, major medical 27 Table of Contents device companies have used litigation against emerging growth companies as a means of gaining or preserving a competitive advantage. Should third parties file patent applications or be issued patents claiming technology also claimed by us in pending applications, we may be required to participate in interference proceedings in the United States Patent and Trademark Office to determine the relative priorities of our inventions and the third parties’ inventions. We could also be required to participate in interference proceedings involving our issued patents and pending applications of another entity. An adverse outcome in an interference proceeding could require us to cease using the technology or to license rights from prevailing third parties. If we are required to license rights from a third party, such license may be expensive and on terms that are unacceptable to us. Third parties may claim we are using their patented inventions and may go to court to stop us from engaging in our normal operations and activities. These lawsuits are expensive to defend and conduct and would also consume and divert the time and attention of our management. A court may decide that we are infringing a third party’s patents and may order us to cease the infringing activity. A court could also order us to pay damages for the infringement. These damages could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we are unable to obtain any necessary license following an adverse determination in litigation or in interference or other administrative proceedings, we would have to redesign our products to avoid infringing a third party’s patent and could temporarily or permanently have to discontinue manufacturing and selling some or all of our products. If this were to occur, it would negatively impact future sales and, in turn, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our ability to conduct medical research and receive medical information may be hampered by the privacy regulations developed under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, referred to as “HIPAA.” The privacy regulations of HIPAA place limitations on a “covered entity’s” use and disclosure of identifiable patient information, including research data. While Endocare is not a “covered entity” under HIPAA, Endocare’s relationships with covered entities, such as hospitals and physicians, sometimes implicate HIPAA. We believe that we have implemented appropriate measures to ensure that our relationships with covered entities are appropriate and consistent with HIPAA. However, there are many uncertainties remaining about how HIPAA applies to medical device companies, and no assurance can be given that HIPAA will not be interpreted in a manner that will hamper our ability to conduct medical research and receive medical information for other purposes as well. If we fail to obtain or maintain necessary regulatory clearances or approvals for products, or if approvals are delayed or withdrawn, we will be unable to commercially distribute and market our products or any product modifications. Government regulation has a significant impact on our business. Government regulation in the United States and other countries is a significant factor affecting the research and development, manufacture and marketing of our products. In the United States, the Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”) has broad authority under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (the “FD&C Act”) to regulate the development, distribution, manufacture and sale of medical devices. Foreign sales of drugs and medical devices are subject to foreign governmental regulation and restrictions, which vary from country to country. The process of obtaining FDA and other required regulatory clearances and approvals (collectively, “regulatory approvals”) is lengthy and expensive. We may not be able to obtain or maintain necessary regulatory approvals for clinical testing or for the manufacturing or marketing of our products. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory approvals can, among other things, result in fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. In addition, new or additional governmental regulations may be established which could prevent, delay, modify or rescind regulatory approval of our products. Any of these actions by the FDA or foreign regulatory authority, or change in FDA regulations or those of a foreign regulatory authority, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 28 Table of Contents Regulatory approvals, if granted, may include significant limitations on the indicated uses for which our products may be marketed. In addition, to obtain such regulatory approvals, the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities may impose numerous other requirements on us. FDA enforcement policy prohibits the marketing of approved medical devices for unapproved uses. In addition, regulatory approvals can be withdrawn for failure to comply with regulatory standards or as a result of unforeseen problems following initial marketing. We may not be able to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals for our products on a timely basis, or at all, and delays in receipt of or failure to receive such regulatory approvals, the loss of previously obtained regulatory approvals or failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may be required to modify our agreements, operations, marketing and expansion strategies in response to changes in the statutory and regulatory environment. We regularly monitor developments in statutes and regulations relating to our business. However, we may be required to modify our agreements, operations, marketing and expansion strategies from time to time in response to changes in the statutory and regulatory environment. We plan to structure all of our agreements, operations, marketing and strategies in accordance with applicable law, although we can provide no assurance that our arrangements will not be challenged successfully or that required changes may not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our products may be subject to product recalls even after receiving FDA clearance or approval, which would harm our reputation and our business. The FDA and similar governmental authorities in other countries have the authority to request and, in some cases, require the recall or similar actions for our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design, manufacture or labeling or in the event of patient injury. A governmental mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors or design defects. Any recall of product would divert managerial and financial resources and harm our reputation with customers and our business, impact our ability to distribute the recalled product in the future, require costly redesign or manufacturing changes and leave Endocare vulnerable to additional regulatory sanctions and product liability litigation. We are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. The conduct of our business internationally is subject to certain risks inherent in international business, many of which are beyond our control. These risks include, among other things: • adverse changes in tariff and trade protection measures; • changes in foreign regulatory requirements; • potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws; • differing labor regulations; • differing product liability regimes; • changing economic conditions in countries where our products are sold or manufactured or in other countries; • differing local product preferences and product requirements, including regulatory requirements; • exchange rate risks; • restrictions on the repatriation of funds; • political unrest and hostilities; • differing degrees of protection for intellectual property; and • difficulties in coordinating and managing foreign operations. 29 Table of Contents In addition, foreign sales subject us to numerous stringent United States and foreign laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), and comparable foreign laws and regulations which prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by United States and other business entities for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. As we expand our international operations, there is some risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors, which could constitute a violation by us of various laws including the FCPA, even though such parties are not always subject to our control. Safeguards that we implement to discourage these practices may prove to be less than effective and violations of the FCPA and other laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, or other liabilities or proceedings against us, including class action lawsuits and enforcement actions from the SEC, Department of Justice and overseas regulators, which could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. Any of these factors, or any other international factors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that we can successfully manage these risks or avoid their effects. We could be negatively impacted by future interpretation or implementation of the federal anti-kickback and Stark Laws and other federal and state anti-self-referral and anti-kickback laws. The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (“CMS”) recently issued a final rule which includes amendments to the regulations that implement the physician self-referral law (Section 1877 of the Social Security Act), popularly known as the “Stark Law.” Certain elements of the final rule that will be effective October 1, 2009 likely will require restructuring of our contracts with physician-owned entities that provide equipment and services in connection with our arrangements to furnish equipment, products and services to hospitals. CMS is prohibiting “per-click” lease arrangements in which a physician-owned entity is the lessor and receives a “per-click” payment, either directly or indirectly, from a provider of “designated health services” (“DHS”) such as a hospital for space or equipment used by the hospital in the provision of services to patients who were referred by the lessor to the lessee. These arrangements where we hold the hospital contract and subcontract with a physician-owned entity constitute less than 20% of our urology business, and we are actively pursuing various restructuring options. At this time, we are unable to predict whether, and to what the extent, such restructuring will affect our business or future business arrangements, but there is no guarantee that it will not have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, for the same reasons as noted above, by October 1, 2009, physician-owned entities that purchase our equipment and disposables and then furnish the equipment, disposables, and technical support services to hospitals on a “per click” basis will be required to restructure their “per click” contracts with the hospital or potentially divest the physician-owners. Although there is a reasonable position at this time that these entities can avoid divesture of their physician-owners, these entities will likely have to be restructured to address the Stark Law rule change effective October 1, 2009. A significant percentage of the urology cases using our equipment in hospitals involves the aforementioned “per-click” arrangement. We understand that these entities are also actively pursuing potential restructuring options. We expect that our arrangements and those of our customers involved in furnishing our products will be fully compliant with the new regulatory requirements before the October 1, 2009 deadline. Although too early to assess, it is possible that such restructuring will have an adverse effect on our business. Interventional radiology services outside of the urology business that involve use of our products generally do not involve physician-owned businesses, and therefore will not be affected by the new rule. The new rules also may make physician investment in mobile service providers and other ventures that purchase our equipment and products and furnish them to hospitals potentially less attractive. At this time, we are unable to predict whether, and to what extent, implementation of the changes made necessary by the new rules will affect our business or future business arrangements. If we become subject to product liability claims, we may be required to pay damages that exceed our insurance coverage. Our business exposes us to potential product liability claims that are inherent in the testing, production, marketing and sale of medical devices. While we believe that we are reasonably insured against these risks, we may 30 Table of Contents not maintain insurance in amounts or scope sufficient to provide us with adequate coverage. A claim in excess of our insurance coverage or not covered by our insurance carriers would have to be paid out of our cash reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, any product liability claim could harm our reputation in the industry and our business. If our products are not accepted by the medical community, or if our products are replaced by new technologies, our business may suffer. The success of our existing products depends on acceptance of these products by the medical community, which acceptance levels we cannot predict. The success of any products we develop in the future will depend on their adoption by our targeted markets. We cannot predict how quickly, if at all, the medical community will accept our future products, or the extent to which those products will be used. If we encounter difficulties introducing future products into our targeted markets, our operating results and business may be substantially impaired. In addition, new technologies and techniques or improvements on such technologies or techniques may be developed which may render obsolete our current products, along with those under development. Our future growth is dependent upon the development of new products, which requires significant investment in research and development and clinical trials, and may not result in commercially viable products. Our future growth is dependent upon the development of new products, which requires that significant resources be devoted to research and development activities and clinical trials. In order to develop new products and improve current product offerings, we focus our research and development programs largely on the development of next-generation and new technology offerings. If we are unable to develop and launch new products as anticipated or if our R&D efforts do not achieve products with technical feasibility, or take longer than anticipated, our ability to maintain or expand our market position may be adversely impacted. As a result of our financial condition, we have had to forgo making investments in research and development expenditures, and in some cases, have had to eliminate projects and reduce spending. Our success will depend on our ability to attract and retain key skilled personnel and if we are not successful, our business will be adversely affected. In order to execute our business plan, we need to attract, retain and motivate a significant number of highly qualified managerial, technical, financial and sales personnel. If we fail to attract and retain skilled scientific and sales personnel, our research and development and sales and marketing efforts will be hindered. Our future success depends to a significant degree upon the continued services of key management personnel. None of our key management personnel is covered by an insurance policy of which we are the beneficiary. Endocare and the combined company will be subject to each of the risks described in the sections above entitled “Risks Associated with Endocare’s Business” and “Risks Related to Galil.” If any of those risks occur, it may have a negative effect on our results of operations and our stock price could decline. Following the effective time of the Merger, Endocare and the combined company will be subject to each of the risks described in the sections above entitled “Risks Associated with Endocare’s Business” and “Risks Related to Galil.” If any of those risks occur, it may have a negative effect on our results of operations and our stock price could decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable 