Item 1A Risk Factors,” such pipeline products are too early in the development process to be considered significant at this point in time. 15 Table of Contents Regulation The manufacturing and distribution of pharmaceutical products are subject to extensive regulation by the federal government, primarily through the FDA and the Drug Enforcement Administration (“DEA”), and to a lesser extent by state and local governments. The Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, Controlled Substances Act and other federal statutes and regulations govern or influence the manufacture, labeling, testing, storage, record keeping, approval, advertising and promotion of our products. Facilities used in the manufacture, packaging, labeling and repackaging of pharmaceutical products must be registered with the FDA and are subject to FDA inspection to ensure that drug products are manufactured in accordance with current Good Manufacturing Practices. Noncompliance with applicable requirements can result in product recalls, seizure of products, injunctions, suspension of production, refusal of the government to enter into supply contracts or to approve drug applications, civil penalties and criminal fines, and disgorgement of profits. FDA approval is required before any “new drug” may be marketed, including new formulations, strengths, dosage forms and generic versions of previously approved drugs. Generally, the following two types of applications are used to obtain FDA approval of a “new drug.” New Drug Application (“NDA”). For a drug product containing an active ingredient not previously approved by the FDA, a prospective manufacturer must submit a complete application containing the results of clinical studies supporting the drug product’s safety and efficacy. An Investigational New Drug application must be submitted before the clinical studies may begin, and the required clinical studies can take two to five years or more to complete. An NDA is also required for a drug with a previously approved active ingredient if the drug will be used to treat an indication for which the drug was not previously approved or if the dosage form, strength or method of delivery is changed. Abbreviated New Drug Application (“ANDA”). For a generic version of an approved drug — a drug product that contains the same active ingredient as a drug previously approved by the FDA and is in the same dosage form and strength, utilizes the same method of delivery and will be used to treat the same indications as the approved product — the FDA ordinarily requires only an abbreviated application that need not include clinical studies demonstrating safety and efficacy. An ANDA requires only bioavailability data demonstrating that the generic formulation is bioequivalent to the previously approved “reference listed drug,” indicating that the rate of absorption and levels of concentration of the generic drug in the body do not show a significant difference from those of the reference listed drug. The FDA currently takes an average of approximately 27 months, to approve an ANDA. Under the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, commonly known as the “Hatch-Waxman Act”, which established the procedures for obtaining approval of generic drugs, an ANDA filer must make certain patent certifications that can result in significant delays in obtaining FDA approval. If the applicant intends to challenge the validity or enforceability of an existing patent covering the reference listed drug or asserts that its drug does not infringe such patent, the applicant files a so called “Paragraph IV” certification and notifies the patent holder that it has done so, explaining the basis for its belief that the patent is not infringed or is invalid or unenforceable. If the patent holder initiates a patent infringement suit within 45 days after receipt of the Paragraph IV Certification, the FDA is automatically prevented from approving an ANDA until the earlier of 30 months after the date the Paragraph IV Certification is given to the patent holder, expiration of the patents involved in the certification, or when the infringement case is decided in the ANDA applicant’s favor. In addition, the first company to file an ANDA for a given drug containing a Paragraph IV certification can be awarded 180 days of market exclusivity following approval of its ANDA, during which the FDA may not approve any other ANDAs for that drug product. During any period in which the FDA is required to withhold its approval of an ANDA due to a statutorily imposed non-approval period, the FDA may grant tentative approval to an applicant’s ANDA. A tentative approval reflects the FDA’s preliminary determination that a generic product satisfies the substantive requirements for approval, subject to the expiration of all statutorily imposed non-approval periods. A tentative approval does not allow the applicant to market the generic drug product. The Hatch-Waxman Act contains additional provisions that can delay the launch of generic products. A five year marketing exclusivity period is provided for new chemical compounds, and a three year marketing exclusivity period is provided for approved applications containing new clinical investigations essential to an approval, such as a new indication for use, or new delivery technologies, or new dosage forms. The three year marketing exclusivity period applies to, among other things, the development of a novel drug delivery system, as well as a new use. In addition, companies can obtain six additional months of exclusivity if they perform pediatric studies of a reference listed drug product. The marketing exclusivity provisions apply to both patented and non-patented drug products. The Act also provides for patent term extensions to compensate for patent protection lost due to time taken in conducting FDA required clinical studies and during FDA review of NDAs. 16 Table of Contents The Generic Drug Enforcement Act of 1992 establishes penalties for wrongdoing in connection with the development or submission of an ANDA. In general, the FDA is authorized to temporarily bar companies, or temporarily or permanently bar individuals, from submitting or assisting in the submission of an ANDA, and to temporarily deny approval and suspend applications to market generic drugs under certain circumstances. In addition to debarment, the FDA has numerous discretionary disciplinary powers, including the authority to withdraw approval of an ANDA or to approve an ANDA under certain circumstances and to suspend the distribution of all drugs approved or developed in connection with certain wrongful conduct. We are subject to the Maximum Allowable Cost Regulations, which limit reimbursements for certain generic prescription drugs under Medicare, Medicaid, and other programs to the lowest price at which these drugs are generally available. In many instances, only generic prescription drugs fall within the regulations’ limits. Generally, the pricing and promotion of, method of reimbursement and fixing of reimbursement levels for, and the reporting to federal and state agencies relating to drug products is under active review by federal, state and local governmental entities, as well as by private third-party reimbursers and individuals under whistleblower statutes. At present, the Justice Department and U.S. Attorneys Offices and State Attorneys General have initiated investigations, reviews, and litigation into industry-wide pharmaceutical pricing and promotional practices, and whistleblowers have filed qui tam suits. We cannot predict the results of those reviews, investigations, and litigation, or their impact on our business. Virtually every state, as well as the District of Columbia, has enacted legislation permitting the substitution of equivalent generic prescription drugs for brand-name drugs where authorized or not prohibited by the prescribing physician, and some states mandate generic substitution in Medicaid programs. In addition, numerous state and federal requirements exist for a variety of controlled substances, such as narcotics, that may be part of our product formulations. The DEA, which has authority similar to the FDA’s and may also pursue monetary penalties, and other federal and state regulatory agencies have far reaching authority. The State of California requires that any manufacturer, wholesaler, retailer or other entity in California that sells, transfers, or otherwise furnishes certain so called precursor substances must have a permit issued by the California Department of Justice, Bureau of Narcotic Enforcement. The substances covered by this requirement include ephedrine, pseudoephedrine, norpseudoephedrine, and phenylpropanolamine, among others. The Bureau has authority to issue, suspend and revoke precursor permits, and a permit may be denied, revoked or suspended for various reasons, including (i) failure to maintain effective controls against diversion of precursors to unauthorized persons or entities; (ii) failure to comply with the Health and Safety Code provisions relating to precursor substances, or any regulations adopted thereunder; (iii) commission of any act which would demonstrate actual or potential unfitness to hold a permit in light of the public safety and welfare, which act is substantially related to the qualifications, functions or duties of the permit holder; or (iv) if any individual owner, manager, agent, representative or employee of the permit applicant/permit holder willfully violates any federal, state or local criminal statute, rule, or ordinance relating to the manufacture, maintenance, disposal, sale, transfer or furnishing of any precursor substances. 17 Table of Contents Patents, Trademarks and Licenses We own or license a number of patents in the U.S. and other countries covering certain products and have also developed brand names and trademarks for other products. Generally, the brand pharmaceutical business relies upon patent protection to ensure market exclusivity for the life of the patent. We consider the overall protection of our patents, trademarks and license rights to be of material value and act to protect these rights from infringement. However, our business is not dependent upon any single patent, trademark or license. In the branded pharmaceutical industry, the majority of an innovative product’s commercial value is usually realized during the period in which the product has market exclusivity. In the U.S. and some other countries, when market exclusivity expires and generic versions of a product are approved and marketed, there can often be very substantial and rapid declines in the branded product’s sales. The rate of this decline varies by country and by therapeutic category; however, following patent expiration, branded products often continue to have market viability based upon the goodwill of the product name, which typically benefits from trademark protection. An innovator product’s market exclusivity is generally determined by two forms of intellectual property: patent rights held by the innovator company and any regulatory forms of exclusivity to which the innovator is entitled. Patents are a key determinant of market exclusivity for most branded pharmaceuticals. Patents provide the innovator with the right to exclude others from practicing an invention related to the medicine. Patents may cover, among other things, the active ingredient(s), various uses of a drug product, pharmaceutical formulations, drug delivery mechanisms and processes for (or intermediates useful in) the manufacture of products. Protection for individual products extends for varying periods in accordance with the expiration dates of patents in the various countries. The protection afforded, which may also vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, its scope of coverage and the availability of meaningful legal remedies in the country. Market exclusivity is also sometimes influenced by regulatory intellectual property rights. Many developed countries provide certain non-patent incentives for the development of medicines. For example, the U.S., the EU and Japan each provide for a minimum period of time after the approval of a new drug during which the regulatory agency may not rely upon the innovator’s data to approve a competitor’s generic copy. Regulatory intellectual property rights are also available in certain markets as incentives for research on new indications, on orphan drugs and on medicines useful in treating pediatric patients. Regulatory intellectual property rights are independent of any patent rights and can be particularly important when a drug lacks broad patent protection. However, most regulatory forms of exclusivity do not prevent a competitor from gaining regulatory approval prior to the expiration of regulatory data exclusivity on the basis of the competitor’s own safety and efficacy data on its drug, even when that drug is identical to that marketed by the innovator. We estimate the likely market exclusivity period for each of our branded products on a case-by-case basis. It is not possible to predict the length of market exclusivity for any of our branded products with certainty because of the complex interaction between patent and regulatory forms of exclusivity, and inherent uncertainties concerning patent litigation. There can be no assurance that a particular product will enjoy market exclusivity for the full period of time that we currently estimate or that the exclusivity will be limited to the estimate. In addition to patents and regulatory forms of exclusivity, we also market products with trademarks. Trademarks have no effect on market exclusivity for a product, but are considered to have marketing value. Trademark protection continues in some countries as long as used; in other countries, as long as registered. Registration is for fixed terms and may be renewed indefinitely. 18 Table of Contents Environmental Laws We are subject to comprehensive federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern, among other things, air polluting emissions, waste water discharges, solid and hazardous waste disposal, and the remediation of contamination associated with current or past generation handling and disposal activities. We are subject periodically to environmental compliance reviews by various environmental regulatory agencies. While it is impossible to predict accurately the future costs associated with environmental compliance and potential remediation activities, compliance with environmental laws is not expected to require significant capital expenditures and has not had, and is not expected to have, a material adverse effect on our business, operations or financial condition. Available Information We maintain an Internet website at the following address: www.impaxlabs.com. We make available on or through our Internet website certain reports and amendments to those reports, as applicable, that we file with or furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). These include our Annual Report on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and our Current Reports on Form 8-K. Our website also includes our Code of Conduct of Senior Officers and the charters of our Audit Committee, Nominating Committee and Compensation Committee of our board of directors. We make this information available on our website free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the information with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The contents of our website are not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and shall not be deemed “filed” under the Exchange Act. Corporate and Other Information We were incorporated in the State of Delaware in 1995. Our corporate headquarters are located at 30831 Huntwood Avenue, Hayward, California, 94544. We were formerly known as Global Pharmaceutical Corporation until December 14, 1999, when Impax Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a privately held drug delivery company, merged into Global Pharmaceutical Corporation and the name of the resulting entity was changed to Impax Laboratories, Inc. Unless otherwise indicated, all product sales data and U.S. market size data in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are based on information obtained from Wolters Kluwer Health, an unrelated third-party provider of prescription market data. We did not independently engage Wolters Kluwer Health to provide this information. Employees As of December 31, 2011, we had 1,002 full-time employees, of which 500 were in operations, 183 in research and development, 189 in the quality area, 96 in legal and administration, and 34 in sales and marketing. None of our employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements with labor unions, and we believe our employee relations are good. 19 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. In deciding whether to invest in our common stock, you should consider carefully the following risk factors, as well as the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The materialization of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from the results discussed in the forward looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed in this “Risk Factors” section. See “Forward-Looking Statements” on page 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Unstable economic conditions may adversely affect our industry, business, financial position and results of operations. The global economy has undergone a period of significant volatility which has led to diminished credit availability, declines in consumer confidence and increases in unemployment rates. There remains caution about the stability of the U.S. economy due to the global financial crisis, and we cannot assure that further deterioration in the financial markets will not occur. These economic conditions have resulted in, and could lead to further, reduced consumer spending related to healthcare in general and pharmaceutical products in particular. In addition, we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, including our partners under our alliance and collaboration agreements, suppliers of raw chemical materials, drug wholesalers and other customers that may be affected by an unstable economic environment. Any economic instability may affect these parties’ ability to fulfill their respective contractual obligations to us or cause them to limit or place burdensome conditions upon future transactions with us which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial position. Furthermore, the capital and credit markets have experienced extreme volatility. Disruptions in the credit markets make it harder and more expensive to obtain funding. In the event current resources do not satisfy our needs, we may have to seek additional financing. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions and the general availability of credit. Future debt financing may not be available to us when required or may not be available on acceptable terms, and as a result we may be unable to grow our business, take advantage of business opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures. 20 Table of Contents Our revenues and operating income could fluctuate significantly. Our revenues and operating results may vary significantly from year-to-year and quarter to quarter as well as in comparison to the corresponding quarter of the preceding year. Variations may result from, among other factors: • the timing of FDA approvals we receive; • the timing of process validation for particular drug products; • the timing of product launches, and market acceptance of such products launched; • changes in the amount we spend to research, develop, acquire, license or promote new products; • the outcome of our clinical trial programs; • serious or unexpected health or safety concerns with our products, the brand products we have genericized, or our product candidates; • the introduction of new products by others that render our products obsolete or noncompetitive; • the ability to maintain selling prices and gross margins on our products; • the outcome of our patent infringement litigation, and other litigation matters, and expenditures as a result of such litigation; • the ability to comply with complex governmental regulations which deal with many aspects of our business; • changes in coverage and reimbursement policies of health plans and other health insurers, including changes to Medicare, Medicaid and similar state programs; • increases in the cost of raw materials used to manufacture our products; • manufacturing and supply interruptions, including failure to comply with manufacturing specifications; • the ability of our brand license partner(s) to secure regulatory approval, gain market share, sales volume, and sales milestone levels; • timing of revenue recognition related to our alliance and collaboration agreements; • the ability to protect our intellectual property and avoid infringing the intellectual property of others; and • the addition or loss of customers. As an illustration, we earned significant revenues and gross profit from sales of our tamsulosin, an authorized generic of Adderall XR®, and fenofibrate products during the year ended December 31, 2010. With respect to our authorized generic of Adderall XR® products, we are dependent on another unrelated third-party pharmaceutical company to supply us with such products we market and sell through our Global Division. Any delay or interruption in the supply of our authorized generic of Adderall XR® products from the unrelated third-party pharmaceutical company could curtail or delay our product shipments and adversely affect our revenues, as well as jeopardize our relationships with our customers. Any significant diminution of our authorized generic of Adderrall XR® and fenofibrate product sales revenue and /or gross profit due to competition and /or product supply or any other reasons in future periods may materially and adversely affect our results of operations in such periods. We commenced sales of our tamsulosin product on March 2, 2010 and had contractual market exclusivity for this generic product for the succeeding eight week period, during which we were able to achieve high market-share penetration. Our tamsulosin product sales, however, did not remain at this level, as additional competing generic versions of the product entered the market in late April 2010, at the conclusion of our contractual exclusivity period, and have resulted in both price erosion and reduction of our market share. 21 Table of Contents Our continued growth is dependent on our ability to continue to successfully introduce new products to the market. Sales of a limited number of our products often represent a significant portion of our revenues in a given period. Revenue from newly launched products that we are the first to market is typically relatively high during the period immediately following launch and can be expected generally to decline over time. Revenue from generic drugs in general can also be expected to decline over time. Our continued growth is therefore dependent upon our ability to continue to successfully introduce new products. As of February 3, 2012, we had 45 applications pending at the FDA for generic versions of brand-name pharmaceuticals. The FDA and the regulatory authorities may not approve our products submitted to them or our other products under development. Additionally, we may not successfully complete our development efforts. Even if the FDA approves our products, we may not be able to market them if we do not prevail in the patent infringement litigation in which we are involved. Our future results of operations will depend significantly upon our ability to develop, receive FDA approval for, and market new pharmaceutical products or otherwise acquire new products. A substantial portion of our total revenues is derived from sales to a limited number of customers. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from sales to a limited number of customers. In 2011, our five major customers, Cardinal Health, Amerisource-Bergen, McKesson Corporation, Walgreens and Medco accounted for 20%, 19%, 16%, 12% and 3%, or an aggregate of 70%, of our gross revenue. A reduction in, or loss of business with, any one of these customers, or any failure of a customer to pay us on a timely basis, would adversely affect our business. A substantial portion of our total revenues is derived from sales of a limited number of products. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from sales of a limited number of products. In 2011 our top five products, accounted for 17%, 15%, 10%, 7% and 7%, or an aggregate of 56%, of Global products sales, net. The sale of our products can be significantly influenced by market conditions, as well as regulatory actions. We may experience decreases in the sale of our products in the future as a result of actions taken by our competitors, such as price reductions, or as a result of regulatory actions related to our products or to competing products, which could have a material impact on our results of operations. Actions which could be taken by our competitors, which may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, may include, without limitation, pricing changes and entering or exiting the market for specific products. Sales of our products may be adversely affected by the continuing consolidation of our customer base. A significant proportion of our sales is made to relatively few retail drug chains, wholesalers, and managed care purchasing organizations. These customers are continuing to undergo significant consolidation. Such consolidation has provided and may continue to provide them with additional purchasing leverage, and consequently may increase the pricing pressures that we face. Additionally, the emergence of large buying groups representing independent retail pharmacies, and the prevalence and influence of managed care organizations and similar institutions, enable those groups to extract price discounts on our products. Our net sales and quarterly growth comparisons may also be affected by fluctuations in the buying patterns of retail chains, major distributors and other trade buyers, whether resulting from seasonality, pricing, wholesaler buying decisions or other factors. In addition, since such a significant portion of our revenues is derived from relatively few customers, any financial difficulties experienced by a single customer, or any delay in receiving payments from a single customer, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 22 Table of Contents We face intense competition from both brand-name and generic manufacturers. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and many of our competitors have longer operating histories and substantially greater financial, research and development, marketing, and other resources than we have. In addition, pharmaceutical manufacturers’ customer base consists of an increasingly limited number of large pharmaceutical wholesalers, chain drug stores that warehouse products, mass merchandisers, mail order pharmacies. Our competitors may be able to develop products and delivery technologies competitive with or more effective or less expensive than our own for many reasons, including that they may have: • proprietary processes or delivery systems; • larger research and development and marketing staffs; • larger production capabilities in a particular therapeutic area; • more experience in preclinical testing and human clinical trials; • more experience in obtaining required regulatory approvals, including FDA approval; • more products; or • more experience in developing new drugs and financial resources, particularly with regard to brand manufacturers. The FDA approval process often results in the FDA granting final approval to a number of ANDAs for a given product at the time a patent claim for a corresponding brand product or other market exclusivity expires. This often forces us to face immediate competition when we introduce a generic product into the market. As competition from other manufacturers intensifies, selling prices and gross profit margins often decline, which has been our experience with our existing products. Moreover, with respect to products for which we file a Paragraph IV certification, if we are not the first ANDA filer challenging a listed patent for a product, we are at a significant disadvantage to the competitor that first filed an ANDA for that product containing such a challenge, which is awarded 180 days of market exclusivity for the product. With respect to our 29 disclosed products pending FDA approval for which we have filed Paragraph IV certifications, we believe: (i) unrelated third parties are the first to file with respect to products with which 22 of our products can be expected to compete; (ii) we are the first to file for 6 products; and (iii) we share first to file status with other filers for one product. Accordingly, the level of market share, revenue and gross profit attributable to a particular generic product that we develop is generally related to the number of competitors in that product’s market and the timing of that product’s regulatory approval and launch, in relation to competing approvals and launches. Although we cannot assure, we strive to develop and introduce new products in a timely and cost effective manner to be competitive in our industry (see “Item 1 Business — Regulation”). Additionally, ANDA approvals often continue to be granted for a given product subsequent to the initial launch of the generic product. These circumstances generally result in significantly lower prices and reduced margins for generic products compared to brand products. New generic market entrants generally cause continued price and margin erosion over the generic product life cycle. In addition to the competition we face from other generic manufacturers, we face competition from brand-name manufacturers related to our generic products. Branded pharmaceutical companies often sell their branded products as “authorized generics” (an industry term that describes instances when a brand-name manufacturer licenses a generic manufacturer to market the brand product under the licensee’s name and registration at typical generic discounts). Further, branded pharmaceutical companies may seek to delay FDA approval of our ANDAs or reduce generic competition by, for example obtaining new patents on drugs whose original patent protection is about to expire, filing patent infringement suits that automatically delay FDA approval of generics, filing “citizen petitions” contesting FDA approvals of generics on alleged health and safety grounds, developing “next generation” versions of products that reduce demand for generic versions we are developing, changing product claims and labeling, and marketing as OTC branded products. Our principal competitors are Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Limited, Mylan Inc., Lannett Company, Inc., Zydus Pharmaceuticals USA Inc., Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Actavis, Inc. and Sandoz, Inc. In the brand-name pharmaceutical market, we market one product pursuant to a license agreement and may in-license additional products. We are not currently marketing our internally developed products, however, with respect to either in-licensed or internally developed products we expect that we will face increased competition from large pharmaceutical companies, other drug delivery companies, and other specialty pharmaceutical companies that have focused on CNS disorders. 23 Table of Contents We have experienced operating losses and negative cash flow from operations in the past, and our future profitability is uncertain. Although 2007 was our first profitable year, and we continued to record net income through and including 2011, we do not know whether our business will continue to be profitable or generate positive cash flow, and our ability to remain profitable or obtain positive cash flow is uncertain. To remain operational, we must, among other things: • obtain FDA approval of our products; • successfully launch new products; • prevail in patent infringement litigation in which we are involved; • continue to generate or obtain sufficient capital on acceptable terms to fund our operations; and • comply with the many complex governmental regulations that deal with virtually every aspect of our business activities. Any delays or unanticipated expenses in connection with the operation of our Taiwan facility could have a material adverse effect on our results of business operations and financial condition. We completed construction of a new manufacturing facility in Taiwan, installed equipment, and received FDA approval during 2009 at an aggregate cost of approximately $ 24.5 million. We initiated commercial manufacturing operations in 2010, and produced approximately 50 million and 115 million tablets and capsules in 2010 and 2011 respectively, for sale in the United States. We plan to continue to increase the aggregate total tablet and capsule production, as well as the number of different products manufactured, at our facility in Taiwan during 2012. We initiated construction of an expansion to our manufacturing facility in Taiwan during 2009 and will expand the Taiwan manufacturing facility in stages. The first phase of the expansion of the Taiwan manufacturing facility was completed in 2009 and the second phase of the expansion is currently expected to be completed in late 2012. After the completion of the second phase of the expansion, we expect the Taiwan facility to have an annual production capacity of approximately 2 billion doses. A major portion of the second phase of the expansion is dedicated to the production of our one branded pharmaceutical product candidate, IPX066, for which the NDA was accepted for filing by the FDA in February 2012. While we have thus far not suffered any material delays, increases in estimated expenses or other material setbacks associated with the construction and operation of the manufacturing facility in Taiwan, we cannot assure that we will be able to successfully manufacture process validation batches, or that costs of production will be within our projections. During any potential delays in scale-up of commercial operations, changing market conditions could render projections relating to our investment in the new facility inaccurate or unreliable. While the facility was approved by the FDA in 2009, we cannot assure that the facility will continue to receive FDA approval in future inspections. In addition, we cannot assure that the planned expansion of the facility will become operational as anticipated or will ultimately result in profitable operations. If the completion of the second phase of our planned expansion of the Taiwan facility is significantly delayed beyond late 2012, we will, based upon current projections, reach full production capacity at our Taiwan manufacturing facility and may have inadequate capacity to meet our production requirements for IPX066. If our manufacturing capacity were to be exceeded by our production requirements, we could lose customers and market share to competing products, and otherwise materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 24 Table of Contents Our business is subject to the economic, political, legal and other risks of maintaining facilities and conducting clinical trials in foreign countries. In 2010, we commenced shipment of commercial product from our new manufacturing facility in Taiwan, and we plan to increase our commercial manufacturing operations in Taiwan in the future. In addition, certain clinical trials for our product candidates are conducted at multiple sites in Europe. These foreign operations are subject to risks inherent in maintaining operations and doing business abroad, such as economic and political destabilization, international conflicts, restrictive actions by foreign governments, expropriation or nationalization of property, changes in laws and regulations, changes in regulatory requirements, the difficulty of effectively managing diverse global operations, adverse foreign tax or tariff laws, more limited intellectual property protection in certain foreign jurisdictions, and the threat posed by potential international disease pandemics in countries that do not have the resources necessary to deal with such outbreaks. Further, as our global operations require compliance with a complex set of foreign and U.S. laws and regulations, including data privacy requirements, labor relations laws, tax laws, anti-competition regulations, import and trade restrictions, and export requirements, U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, and local laws which also prohibit corrupt payments to governmental officials or certain payments or remunerations to customers, there is a risk that some provisions may be inadvertently breached. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business. These foreign economic, political, legal and other risks could impact our operations and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are routinely subject to patent litigation that can delay or prevent our commercialization of products, force us to incur substantial expense to defend, and expose us to substantial liability. Brand-name pharmaceutical manufacturers routinely bring patent infringement litigation against ANDA applicants seeking FDA approval to manufacture and market generic forms of their branded products. Likewise, patent holders may bring patent infringement suits against companies that are currently marketing and selling their approved generic products. Patent infringement litigation involves many complex technical and legal issues and its outcome is often difficult to predict, and the risk involved in doing so can be substantial, because the remedies available to the owner of a patent in the event of an unfavorable outcome include damages measured by the profits lost by the patent owner rather than the profits earned by the infringer. Such litigation usually involves significant expense and can delay or prevent introduction or sale of our products. As of February 3, 2012, we were involved in patent infringement suits involving the following 15 products: (i) Tolterodine Tartrate ER Capsules, 2 mg and 4 mg (generic to Detrol LA®); (ii) Doxycycline Hyclate DR Tablets 75 mg, 100 mg and 150 mg (generic to Doryx®); (iii) Sevelamer Hydrochloride Tablets, 400 mg and 800 mg (generic to Renagel®); (iv) Sevelamer Carbonate Tablets, 800 mg (generic to Renvela®); (v) Doxycycline Monohydrate DR Capsules, 40 mg (generic to Oracea®); (vi) Sevelamer Carbonate Powder, 0.8 g/packets and 2.4 g/packets (generic to Renvela® powder); (vii) Ezetimibe-Simvistatin Tablets, 10/80 mg (generic to Vytorin®); (viii) Niacin-Simvastatin Tablets, 1000/20mg (generic to Simcor®); (ix) Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Tablets, 54 mg (generic to Concerta®); (x) Guanfacine Hydrochloride Tablets 1 mg, 2 mg, 3 mg, and 4 mg (generic to Intuniv®); (xi) Dexlansoprazole Delayed Release Capsules, 30 mg and 60 mg (generic to Dexilant®); (xii) Oxycodone Hydrochloride, Controlled Release Tablets, 10 mg, 15 mg, 20 mg, 30 mg, 40 mg, 60 mg and 80 mg (generic to Oxycontin®); (xiii) Dextromethorphan/Quinidine Capsules, 20mg/10mg (generic of Nuedexta®); (xiv) Dutasteride/Tamsulosin Capsules, 0.5 mg/0.4 mg (generic of Jalyn®); and (xv) Fentanyl Buccal Tablets, 100 mcg, 200 mcg, 400 mcg, 600 mcg and 800 mcg (generic of Fentora®). For the year ended December 31, 2011, we incurred costs of approximately $ 7.5 million in connection with our participation in these matters, which are in varying stages of litigation, as well as for other matters that were resolved in 2011. If any of these patent litigation matters are resolved unfavorably, we or any alliance or collaboration partners may be enjoined from manufacturing or selling the product that is the subject of such litigation without a license from the other party. In addition, if we decide to market and sell products prior to the resolution of patent infringement suits, we could be held liable for lost profits if we are found to have infringed a valid patent, or liable for treble damages if we are found to have willfully infringed a valid patent. As a result, any patent litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, although it is not possible to quantify the liability we could incur if any of these suits are decided against us. 25 Table of Contents Our agreements with brand pharmaceutical companies, which are important to our business, are facing increased government scrutiny in the U.S. We are involved in numerous patent litigations in which we challenge the validity or enforceability of innovator companies’ listed patents and/or their applicability to our products and therefore settling patent litigations has been and is likely to continue to be an important part of our business. Parties to such settlement agreements in the U.S., including us, are required by law to file them with the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) and the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice for review. The FTC has publicly stated that, in its view, some of the brand—generic settlement agreements violate the antitrust laws and has brought actions against some brand and generic companies that have entered into such agreements. Accordingly, we may receive formal or informal requests from the FTC for information about a particular settlement agreement, and there is a risk that the FTC may commence an action against us alleging violation of the antitrust laws. Our ability to develop or license, or otherwise acquire, and introduce new products on a timely basis in relation to our competitors’ product introductions involves inherent risks and uncertainties. Product development is inherently risky, especially for new drugs for which safety and efficacy have not been established and the market is not yet proven. Likewise, product licensing involves inherent risks including uncertainties due to matters that may affect the achievement of milestones, as well as the possibility of contractual disagreements with regard to terms such as license scope or termination rights. The development and commercialization process, particularly with regard to new drugs, also requires substantial time, effort and financial resources. The process of obtaining FDA approval to manufacture and market new and generic pharmaceutical products is rigorous, time consuming, costly and largely unpredictable. We, or a partner, may not be successful in obtaining FDA approval or in commercializing any of the products that we are developing or licensing. Our approved products may not achieve expected levels of market acceptance. Even if we are able to obtain regulatory approvals for our new products, the success of those products is dependent upon market acceptance. Levels of market acceptance for our new products could be affected by several factors, including: • the availability of alternative products from our competitors; • the prices of our products relative to those of our competitors; • the timing of our market entry; • the ability to market our products effectively at the retail level; • the perception of patients and the healthcare community, including third-party payers, regarding the safety, efficacy and benefits of our drug products compared to those of competing products; and • the acceptance of our products by government and private formularies. Some of these factors are not within our control, and our products may not achieve expected levels of market acceptance. Additionally, continuing and increasingly sophisticated studies of the proper utilization, safety and efficacy of pharmaceutical products are being conducted by the industry, government agencies and others which can call into question the utilization, safety and efficacy of previously marketed products. In some cases, studies have resulted, and may in the future result, in the discontinuance of product marketing or other risk management programs such as the need for a patient registry. 26 Table of Contents We expend a significant amount of resources on research and development efforts that may not lead to successful product introductions or the recovery of our research and development expenditures. We conduct research and development primarily to enable us to manufacture and market pharmaceuticals in accordance with FDA regulations. We spent approximately $ 82.7 million, $ 86.2 million and $ 63.3 million on research and development activities during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. We are required to obtain FDA approval before marketing our drug products. The FDA approval process is costly and time consuming. Typically, research expenses related to the development of innovative compounds and the filing of NDAs are significantly greater than those expenses associated with ANDAs. As we continue to develop new products, our research expenses will likely increase. Because of the inherent risk associated with research and development efforts in our industry, particularly with respect to new drugs, our research and development expenditures may not result in the successful introduction of FDA approved pharmaceuticals. Our bioequivalence studies, other clinical studies and/or other data may not result in FDA approval to market our new drug products. While we believe that the FDA’s ANDA procedures will apply to our bioequivalent versions of controlled-release drugs, these drugs may not be suitable for, or approved as part of, these abbreviated applications. In addition, even if our drug products are suitable for FDA approval by filing an ANDA, the abbreviated applications are costly and time consuming to complete. After we submit an NDA or ANDA, the FDA may require that we conduct additional studies, and as a result, we may be unable to reasonably determine the total research and development costs to develop a particular product. Also, for products pending approval, we may obtain raw materials or produce batches of inventory to be used in anticipation of the product’s launch. In the event that FDA approval is denied or delayed, we could be exposed to the risk of this inventory becoming obsolete. Finally, we cannot be certain that any investment made in developing products or product-delivery technologies will be recovered, even if we are successful in commercialization. To the extent that we expend significant resources on research and development efforts and are not able, ultimately, to introduce successful new products or new delivery technologies as a result of those efforts, we will be unable to recover those expenditures. The time necessary to develop generic drugs may adversely affect whether, and the extent to which, we receive a return on our capital. We generally begin our development activities for a new generic drug product several years in advance of the patent expiration date of the brand-name drug equivalent. The development process, including drug formulation, testing, and FDA review and approval, often takes three or more years. This process requires that we expend considerable capital to pursue activities that do not yield an immediate or near-term return. Also, because of the significant time necessary to develop a product, the actual market for a product at the time it is available for sale may be significantly less than the originally projected market for the product. If this were to occur, our potential return on our investment in developing the product, if approved for marketing by the FDA, would be adversely affected and we may never receive a return on our investment in the product. It is also possible for the manufacturer of the brand-name product for which we are developing a generic drug to obtain approvals from the FDA to switch the brand-name drug from the prescription market to the OTC market. If this were to occur, we would be prohibited from marketing our product other than as an OTC drug, in which case revenues could be substantially less than we anticipated. Approvals for our new generic drug products may be delayed or become more difficult to obtain if the FDA institutes changes to its approval requirements. Some abbreviated application procedures for controlled-release drugs and other products, including those related to our ANDA filings, are or may become the subject of petitions filed by brand-name drug manufacturers seeking changes from the FDA in the approval requirements for particular drugs, which can delay or make development of generic drugs more difficult. We cannot predict whether the FDA will make any changes to its abbreviated application requirements as a result of these petitions, or the effect that any changes may have on us. Any changes in FDA regulations may make it more difficult for us to file ANDAs or obtain approval of our ANDAs and generate revenues and thus may materially harm our business and financial results. 27 Table of Contents Our inexperience in conducting clinical trials and submitting NDAs could result in delays or failure in development and commercialization of our own branded products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, and financial condition. With respect to products that we develop that are not generic equivalents of existing brand-name drugs and thus do not qualify for the FDA’s abbreviated application procedures, we must demonstrate through clinical trials that these products are safe and effective for use. We have only limited experience in conducting and supervising clinical trials. The process of completing clinical trials and preparing an NDA may take several years and requires substantial resources. Our studies and filings may not result in FDA approval to market our new drug products and, if the FDA grants approval, we cannot predict the timing of any approval. There are substantial filing fees for NDAs that are not refundable if FDA approval is not obtained. We cannot assure that our expenses related to NDAs and clinical trials will lead to the development of brand-name drugs that will generate revenues in the near future. Delays or failure in the development and commercialization of our own branded products could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The risks and uncertainties inherent in conducting clinical trials could delay or prevent the development and commercialization of our own branded products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, financial condition, and growth prospects. There are a number of risks and uncertainties associated with clinical trials. The results of clinical trials may not be indicative of results that would be obtained from large scale testing. Clinical trials are often conducted with patients having advanced stages of disease and, as a result, during the course of treatment these patients can die or suffer adverse medical effects for reasons that may not be related to the pharmaceutical agents being tested, but which nevertheless affect the clinical trial results. In addition, side effects experienced by the patients may cause delay of approval or limited profile of an approved product. Moreover, our clinical trials may not demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to obtain FDA approval. Failure can occur at any time during the clinical trial process and, in addition, the results from early clinical trials may not be predictive of results obtained in later and larger clinical trials, and product candidates in later clinical trials may fail to show the desired safety or efficacy despite having progressed successfully through earlier clinical testing. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including us, have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, even in advanced clinical trials after showing positive results in earlier clinical trials. For example, we had previously sought to develop an earlier product formulation containing carbidopa/levodopa for the treatment of Parkinson’s disease. Following completion of the clinical trials and submission of the NDA, the NDA was not approved due to the FDA’s concerns over product nomenclature and the potential for medication errors. In the future, the completion of clinical trials for our product candidates may be delayed or halted for many reasons, including: • delays in patient enrollment, and variability in the number and types of patients available for clinical trials; • regulators or institutional review boards may not allow us to commence or continue a clinical trial; • our inability, or the inability of our partners, to manufacture or obtain from third parties materials sufficient to complete our clinical trials; • delays or failure in reaching agreement on acceptable clinical trial contracts or clinical trial protocols with prospective clinical trial sites; • risks associated with trial design, which may result in a failure of the trial to show statistically significant results even if the product candidate is effective; • difficulty in maintaining contact with patients after treatment commences, resulting in incomplete data; • poor effectiveness of product candidates during clinical trials; • safety issues, including adverse events associated with product candidates; • the failure of patients to complete clinical trials due to adverse side effects, dissatisfaction with the product candidate, or other reasons; • governmental or regulatory delays or changes in regulatory requirements, policy and guidelines; and • varying interpretation of data by the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies. 28 Table of Contents In addition, our product candidates could be subject to competition for clinical study sites and patients from other therapies under development which may delay the enrollment in or initiation of our clinical trials. The FDA or foreign regulatory authorities may require us to conduct unanticipated additional clinical trials, which could result in additional expense and delays in bringing our product candidates to market. Any failure or delay in completing clinical trials for our product candidates would prevent or delay the commercialization of our product candidates. We cannot assure that our expenses related to clinical trials will lead to the development of brand-name drugs which will generate revenues in the near future. Delays or failure in the development and commercialization of our own branded products could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, financial condition, and our growth prospects. We rely on our license partner for regulatory filing and commercialization of IPX066 outside of the United States and Taiwan. Glaxo Group Limited, under the terms of our license, development and commercialization agreement, is responsible for certain regulatory activities outside the United States and Taiwan that are essential for the commercialization of IPX066. If Glaxo Group Limited is not successful in its performance of, or fails to perform, their regulatory obligations with respect to IPX066, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for IPX066 in certain jurisdictions outside of the United States and Taiwan, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We rely on third parties to conduct clinical trials and testing for our product candidates, and if they do not properly and successfully perform their legal and regulatory obligations, as well as their contractual obligations to us, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals for our product candidates. We design the clinical trials for our product candidates, but rely on contract research organizations and other third parties to assist us in managing, monitoring and otherwise carrying out these trials, including with respect to site selection, contract negotiation, analytical testing and data management. We do not control these third parties and, as a result, they may not treat our clinical studies as their highest priority, or in the manner in which we would prefer, which could result in delays. Although we rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials and related activities, we are responsible for confirming that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with our general investigational plan and protocol. Moreover, the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies require us to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices and good laboratory practices, for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to ensure that the data and results are credible and accurate and that the trial participants are adequately protected. Our reliance on third parties does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. The FDA enforces good clinical practices and good laboratory practices through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, principal investigators and trial sites. If we, our contract research organizations or our study sites fail to comply with applicable good clinical practices and good laboratory practices, the clinical data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and the FDA may require us to perform additional clinical trials before approving our marketing applications. We cannot assure you that, upon inspection, the FDA will determine that any of our clinical trials comply with good clinical practices and good laboratory practices. In addition, our clinical trials must be conducted with product manufactured under the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, regulations. Our failure or the failure of our contract manufacturers if any are involved in the process, to comply with these regulations may require us to repeat clinical trials, which would delay the regulatory approval process. If third parties do not successfully carry out their duties under their agreements with us; if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements; or if they otherwise fail to comply with clinical trial protocols or meet expected deadlines; our clinical trials may not meet regulatory requirements. If our clinical trials do not meet regulatory requirements or if these third parties need to be replaced, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated. If any of these events occur, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval of our product candidates, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects. 29 Table of Contents We are dependent on a small number of suppliers for our raw materials that we use to manufacture our products and interruptions in our supply chain could materially and adversely affect our business. We typically purchase the ingredients, other materials and supplies that we use in the manufacturing of our products, as well as certain finished products, from a small number of foreign and domestic suppliers. The FDA requires identification of raw material suppliers in applications for approval of drug products. If raw materials were unavailable from a specified supplier or the supplier was not in compliance with FDA or other applicable requirements, the FDA approval of a new supplier could delay the manufacture of the drug involved. As a result, there is no guarantee we will always have timely and sufficient access to a required raw material or other product. In addition, some materials used in our products are currently available from only one supplier or a limited number of suppliers. Generally, we would need as much as 18 months to find and qualify a new sole-source supplier. If we receive less than one year’s termination notice from a sole-source supplier that it intends to cease supplying raw materials, it could result in disruption of our ability to produce the drug involved. Further, a significant portion of our raw materials may be available only from foreign sources. Foreign sources can be subject to the special risks of doing business abroad, including: • greater possibility for disruption due to transportation or communication problems; • the relative instability of some foreign governments and economies; • interim price volatility based on labor unrest, materials or equipment shortages, export duties, restrictions on the transfer of funds, or fluctuations in currency exchange rates; and • uncertainty regarding recourse to a dependable legal system for the enforcement of contracts and other rights. Those of our raw materials that are available from a limited number of suppliers are Bendroflumethiazide, Chloroquine, Colestipol, Demeclocycline, Digoxin, Flavoxate, Methyltestosterone, Nadolol, Orphenadrine, Terbutaline and Klucel, all of which are active pharmaceutical ingredients except Klucel, which is an excipient used in several product formulations. The manufacturers of two of these products, Formosa Laboratories, Ltd. and a division of Ashland, Inc., are sole-source suppliers. While none of the active ingredients is individually significant to our business, the excipient, while not covered by a supply agreement, is utilized in a number of significant products, it is manufactured for a number of industrial applications and supplies have been readily available. Only one of the active ingredients is covered by a long-term supply agreement and, while we have experienced occasional interruptions in supplies, none has had a material effect on our operations. Many third-party suppliers are subject to governmental regulation and, accordingly, we are dependent on the regulatory compliance of these third parties. We also depend on the strength, enforceability and terms of our various contracts with these third-party suppliers. We also rely on complex shipping arrangements throughout the various facilities of our supply chain spectrum. Customs clearance and shipping by land, air or sea routes rely on and may be affected by factors that are not in our full control or are hard to predict. Any inability to obtain raw materials on a timely basis, or any significant price increases which cannot be passed on to customers, could have a material adverse effect on us. Certain of our products use controlled substances, the availability of which may be limited by the DEA and other regulatory agencies. We utilize controlled substances in certain of our current products and products in development and therefore must meet the requirements of the Controlled Substances Act of 1970 and the related regulations administered by the DEA in the U.S. as well as similar laws in other countries where we operate. These laws relate to the manufacture, shipment, storage, sale and use of controlled substances. The DEA and other regulatory agencies limit the availability of the active ingredients used in certain of our current products and products in development and, as a result, our procurement quota of these active ingredients may not be sufficient to meet commercial demand or complete clinical trials. We must annually apply to the DEA and other regulatory agencies for procurement quota in order to obtain these substances. Any delay or refusal by the DEA or such regulatory agencies in establishing our procurement quota for controlled substances could delay or stop our clinical trials or product launches, or could cause trade inventory disruptions for those products that have already been launched, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 30 Table of Contents We may be subject to disruptions or failures in our information technology systems and network infrastructures that could have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems and network infrastructures to operate our business. We also hold data in various data center facilities upon which our business depends. A disruption, infiltration or failure of our information technology systems or any of our data centers as a result of software or hardware malfunctions, system implementations or upgrades, computer viruses, third-party security breaches, employee error, theft or misuse, malfeasance, power disruptions, natural disasters or accidents could cause breaches of data security, loss of intellectual property and critical data and the release and misappropriation of sensitive competitive information. Any of these events could result in the loss of key information, impair our production and supply chain processes, harm our competitive position, cause us to incur significant costs to remedy any damages and ultimately materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. While we have implemented a number of protective measures, including firewalls, antivirus, patches, log monitors, routine back-ups with offsite retention of storage media, system audits, data partitioning and disaster recovery procedures, such measures may not be adequate or implemented properly to prevent or fully address the adverse effect of such events. We may be adversely affected by alliance, collaboration, supply, or license and distribution agreements we enter into with other companies. We have entered into several alliance, collaboration, supply or license and distribution agreements with respect to certain of our products and services and may enter into similar agreements in the future. These arrangements may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies or product candidates, or to grant licenses on terms that ultimately may prove to be unfavorable to us. Relationships with alliance partners may also include risks due to regulatory requirements, incomplete marketplace information, inventories, and commercial strategies of our partners, and our agreements may be the subject of contractual disputes. If we or our partners are not successful in commercializing the products covered by the agreements, such commercial failure could adversely affect our business. Pursuant to a license and distribution agreement with an unrelated third party pharmaceutical company, we are dependent on such company to supply us with product that we market and sell, and we may enter into similar agreements in the future. Any delay or interruption in the supply of product under such agreements could curtail or delay our product shipment and adversely affect our revenues, as well as jeopardize our relationships with our customers. We depend on qualified scientific and technical employees, and our limited resources may make it more difficult to attract and retain these personnel. Because of the specialized scientific nature of our business, we are highly dependent upon our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified scientific and technical personnel. We are not aware of any pending, significant losses of scientific or technical personnel. Loss of the services of, or failure to recruit, key scientific and technical personnel, however, would be significantly detrimental to our product-development programs. As a result of our small size and limited financial and other resources, it may be difficult for us to attract and retain qualified officers and qualified scientific and technical personnel. In January 2010, we entered into employment agreements with our executive officers and certain other key employees. Under the employment agreements, the employee may terminate his or her employment upon 60 days prior written notice to us. All of our other key personnel are employed on an at-will basis with no formal employment agreements. We purchase a life insurance policy as an employee benefit for Dr. Hsu, but do not maintain “Key Man” life insurance on any executives. 31 Table of Contents We are subject to significant costs and uncertainties related to compliance with the extensive regulations that govern the manufacturing, labeling, distribution, and promotion of pharmaceutical products as well as environmental, safety and health regulations. The manufacturing, distribution, processing, formulation, packaging, labeling and advertising of our products are subject to extensive regulation by federal agencies, including the FDA, DEA, FTC, Consumer Product Safety Commission and Environmental Protection Agency, among others. We are also subject to state and local laws, regulations and agencies in California, Pennsylvania and elsewhere, as well as the laws and regulations of Taiwan. Compliance with these regulations requires substantial expenditures of time, money and effort in such areas as production and quality control to ensure full technical compliance. Failure to comply with FDA and other governmental regulations can result in fines, disgorgement, unanticipated compliance expenditures, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, suspension of the FDA’s review of NDAs or ANDAs, enforcement actions, injunctions and civil or criminal prosecution. We cannot accurately predict the outcome or timing of future expenditures that we may be required to make in order to comply with the federal, state, and local environmental, safety, and health laws and regulations that are applicable to our operations and facilities. We are also subject to potential liability for the remediation of contamination associated with both present and past hazardous waste generation, handling, and disposal activities. We are subject periodically to environmental compliance reviews by environmental, safety, and health regulatory agencies. Environmental laws are subject to change and we may become subject to stricter environmental standards in the future and face larger capital expenditures in order to comply with environmental laws. We may experience reductions in the levels of reimbursement for pharmaceutical products by governmental authorities, HMOs or other third-party payers. Any such reductions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Various governmental authorities and private health insurers and other organizations, such as HMOs, provide reimbursement to consumers for the cost of certain pharmaceutical products. Demand for our products depends in part on the extent to which such reimbursement is available. In addition, third-party payers are attempting to control costs by limiting the level of reimbursement for medical products, including pharmaceuticals, and increasingly challenge the pricing of these products which may adversely affect the pricing of our products. Moreover, health care reform has been, and is expected to continue to be, an area of national and state focus, which could result in the adoption of measures that could adversely affect the pricing of pharmaceuticals or the amount of reimbursement available from third-party payers for our products. Reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid rebate program and other government programs are complex, and failure to comply could result in sanctions and penalties or we could be required to reimburse the government for underpayments, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Medicaid and other government reporting and payment obligations are highly complex and somewhat ambiguous. State attorneys general and the U.S. Department of Justice have brought suits or instituted investigations against a number of other pharmaceutical companies for failure to comply with Medicaid and other government reporting obligations. Our methodologies for making these calculations are complex and the judgments involved require us to make subjective decisions, such that these calculations are subject to the risk of errors. Government agencies may impose civil or criminal sanctions, including fines, penalties and possible exclusion from federal health care programs, including Medicaid and Medicare. Any such penalties or sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Legislative or regulatory programs that may influence prices of prescription drugs could have a material adverse effect on our business. Current or future federal or state laws and regulations may influence the prices of drugs and, therefore, could adversely affect the prices that we receive for our products. Programs in existence in certain states seek to set prices of all drugs sold within those states through the regulation and administration of the sale of prescription drugs. Expansion of these programs, in particular, state Medicaid programs, or changes required in the way in which Medicaid rebates are calculated under such programs, could adversely affect the price we receive for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Decreases in health care reimbursements could limit our ability to sell our products or decrease our revenues. 32 Table of Contents Our failure to comply with the legal and regulatory requirements governing the healthcare industry may result in substantial fines, sanctions and restrictions on our business activities. Our practices and activities related to the sales and marketing of our products, as well as the pricing of our products, are subject to extensive regulation under U.S. federal and state healthcare statutes and regulations intended to combat fraud and abuse to federal and state healthcare payment programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, Tri-Care, CHAMPUS, and Department of Defense programs. These laws include the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, the federal False Claims Act, and similar state laws and implementing regulations. For example, the payment of any incentive to a healthcare provider to induce the recommendation of our product or the purchase of our products reimbursable under a federal or state program would be considered a prohibited promotional practice under these laws. Similarly, the inaccurate reporting of prices leading to inflated reimbursement rates would also be considered a violation of these laws. These laws and regulations are enforced by the U.S. Department of Justice, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Inspector General, state Medicaid Fraud Units and other state enforcement agencies. Violations of these laws and regulations are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including substantial fines and penal sanctions, such as imprisonment. It is common for enforcement agencies to initiate investigations into sales and marketing practices, as well as pricing practices, regardless of merit. These types of investigations and any related litigation can result in: (i) large expenditures of cash for legal fees, payment for penalties, and compliance activities; (ii) limitations on operations, (iii) diversion of management resources, (iv) injury to our reputation and (v) decreased demand for our products. While we believe that our practices and activities related to sales and marketing, and the pricing of our products, are in compliance with these fraud and abuse laws, the criteria for compliance are often complex and subject to change and interpretation. An investigation by an enforcement agency could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 33 Table of Contents We have entered into, and anticipate entering into, contracts with various U.S. government agencies. Unfavorable provisions in government contracts, some of which may be customary, may harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Government contracts customarily contain provisions that give the government substantial rights and remedies, many of which are not typically found in commercial contracts, including provisions that allow the government to: • suspend or debar the contractor from doing business with the government or a specific government agency; • terminate existing contracts, in whole or in part, for any reason or no reason; • reduce the scope and value of contracts; • change certain terms and conditions in contracts; • claim rights to products, including intellectual property, developed under the contract; • take actions that result in a longer development timeline than expected; • direct the course of a development program in a manner not chosen by the government contractor; • audit and object to the contractor’s contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs; and • control and potentially prohibit the export of the contractor’s products. Generally, government contracts contain provisions permitting unilateral termination or modification, in whole or in part, at the government’s convenience. Under general principles of government contracting law, if the government terminates a contract for convenience, the terminated company may recover only its incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses and profit on work completed prior to the termination. If the government terminates a contract for default, the defaulting company is entitled to recover costs incurred and associated profits on accepted items only and may be liable for excess costs incurred by the government in procuring undelivered items from another source. Some government contracts grant the government the right to use, for or on behalf of the U.S. government, any technologies developed by the contractor under the government contract. If we were to develop technology under a contract with such a provision, we might not be able to prohibit third parties, including our competitors, from using that technology in providing products and services to the government. As a government contractor, we may also become subject to periodic audits and reviews. As part of any such audit or review, the government may review the adequacy of, and our compliance with, our internal control systems and policies, including those relating to our purchasing, property, compensation and/or management information systems. In addition, if an audit or review uncovers any improper or illegal activity, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of our contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the government. We could also suffer serious harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety were made against us. 34 Table of Contents Legislative or regulatory reform of the healthcare system in the United States may harm our future business. Healthcare costs have risen significantly over the past decade. On March 23, 2010, President Obama signed the “Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act” (P.L. 111-148) and on March 30, 2010, the President signed the “Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act” (P.L. 111-152), collectively commonly referred to as the “Healthcare Reform Law” which, among other things, requires most individuals to have health insurance, effective January 1, 2014, establishes new regulations on health plans (with the earliest changes for certain benefits beginning with plan years commencing after September 23, 2010), creates insurance exchanges (effective January 2014) and imposes new requirements and changes in reimbursement or funding for healthcare providers, device manufacturers and pharmaceutical companies (with the earliest changes effective on March 23, 2010) and other changes staged in thereafter. The Healthcare Reform Law may impose additional requirements and obligations upon our company, which, to a certain extent, will depend upon the mix of products we sell. These changes include, among other things: • revisions to the Medicaid rebate program by: (a) increasing the rebate percentage for branded drugs dispensed after December 31, 2009 to 23.1% of the average manufacturer price (“AMP”), with limited exceptions; (b) increasing the rebate for outpatient generic, multiple source drugs dispensed after December 31, 2009 to 13% of AMP; (c) changing the definition of AMP; and (d) effective January 1, 2011, the Medicaid rebate program will be extended to Medicaid managed care plans, with limited exception; • the imposition of annual fees upon manufacturers or importers of branded prescription drugs, which fees will be in amounts determined by the Secretary of Treasury based upon market share and other data; • providing a 50% discount on brand-name prescriptions filled in the Medicare Part D coverage gap beginning in 2011; • imposing increased penalties for the violation of fraud and abuse laws and funding for anti-fraud activities; • creating a new pathway for approval of biosimilar biological products and granting an exclusivity period of 12 years for branded drug manufacturers of biological products before biosimilar products can be approved for marketing in the U.S.; and • expanding the definition of “covered entities” that purchase certain outpatient drugs in the 340B Drug Pricing Program of Section 340B of the Public Health Service Act. While the aforementioned Healthcare Reform Law may increase the number of patients who have insurance coverage for our products, such insurance mandate does not commence until January 2014, and the Healthcare Reform Law also restructures payments to Medicare managed care plans and reduces reimbursements to many institutional customers. Moreover, the Health Reform Law is currently subject to legal challenges that may have an impact on the law. Accordingly, the timing on the insurance mandate, the change in the Medicaid rebate levels, the additional fees imposed upon our company if it markets branded drugs, other compliance obligations, and the reduced reimbursement levels to institutional customers may result in a loss of revenue and could adversely affect our business. In addition, the Healthcare Reform Law contemplates the promulgation of significant future regulatory action which may also further affect our business. We depend on our intellectual property, and our future success is dependent on our ability to protect our intellectual property and not infringe on the rights of others. We believe intellectual property protection is important to our business and that our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to maintain trade secret protection and operate without infringing on the rights of others. We cannot assure you that: • any of our future processes or products will be patentable; • our processes or products will not infringe upon the patents of third parties; or • we will have the resources to defend against charges of patent infringement by third parties or to protect our own rights against infringement by third parties. We rely on trade secrets and proprietary knowledge related to our products and technology which we generally seek to protect by confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with employees, consultants, licensees and pharmaceutical companies. If these agreements are breached, we may not have adequate remedies for any breach, and our trade secrets may otherwise become known by our competitors. 35 Table of Contents We are subject to potential product liability claims that can result in substantial litigation costs and liability. The design, development and manufacture of pharmaceutical products involve an inherent risk of product liability claims and associated adverse publicity. Product liability insurance coverage is expensive, difficult to obtain, and may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. Although we currently carry $ 45.0 million of such insurance, we believe that no reasonable amount of insurance can fully protect against all such risks because of the potential liability inherent in the business of producing pharmaceutical products for human consumption. We face risks relating to our goodwill and intangibles. At December 31, 2011, our goodwill, which was originally generated as a result of the December 1999 merger of Global Pharmaceuticals Corporation and Impax Pharmaceuticals, Inc., was approximately $ 27.6 million, or approximately 3% of our total assets. We may never realize the value of our goodwill and intangibles. We will continue to evaluate, on a regular basis, whether events or circumstances have occurred to indicate all, or a portion, of the carrying amount of goodwill may no longer be recoverable, in which case an impairment charge to earnings would become necessary. Although as of December 31, 2011, the carrying value of goodwill was not impaired based on our assessment performed in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (“GAAP”), any such future determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of carrying value of goodwill could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in tax regulations and varying application and interpretations of these regulations could result in an increase in our existing and future tax liabilities. We have potential tax exposures resulting from the varying application of statutes, regulations and interpretations, including exposures with respect to manufacturing, research and development, marketing, sales and distribution functions. Although our arrangements are based on accepted tax standards, tax authorities in various jurisdictions including the United States may disagree with and subsequently challenge the amount of profits taxed, which may increase our tax liabilities and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of our operations and financial condition. 36 Table of Contents If we are unable to manage our growth, our business will suffer. We have experienced rapid growth in the past several years and anticipate continued rapid expansion in the future. The number of ANDAs pending approval at the FDA has increased from 24 at December 31, 2008 to 45 at February 3, 2012. This growth has required us to expand, upgrade, and improve our administrative, operational, and management systems, internal controls and resources. We anticipate additional growth in connection with the expansion of our manufacturing operations, development of our brand-name products, and our marketing and sales efforts for the products we develop. Although we cannot assure you that we will, in fact, grow as we expect, if we fail to manage growth effectively or to develop a successful marketing approach, our business and financial results will be materially harmed. We may also seek to expand our business through complementary or strategic acquisitions of other businesses, products or assets, or through joint ventures, strategic agreements or other arrangements. Any such acquisitions, joint ventures or other business combinations may involve significant integration challenges, operational complexities and time consumption and require substantial resources and effort. It may also disrupt our ongoing businesses, which may adversely affect our relationships with customers, employees, regulators and others with whom we have business or other dealings. Further, if we are unable to realize synergies or other benefits expected to result from any acquisitions, joint ventures or other business combinations, or to generate additional revenue to offset any unanticipated inability to realize these expected synergies or benefits, our growth and ability to compete may be impaired, which would require us to focus additional resources on the integration of operations rather than other profitable areas of our business, and may otherwise cause a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may make acquisitions of, or investments in, complementary businesses or products, which may be on terms that are not commercially advantageous, may require additional debt or equity financing, and may involve numerous risks, including the risks that we may be unable to integrate the acquired business successfully and that we may assume liabilities that adversely affect us. We regularly review the potential acquisition of products, product rights and complementary businesses. We may choose to enter into such transactions at any time. Nonetheless, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition or investment candidates. To the extent that we do identify candidates that we believe to be suitable, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to make such acquisitions or investments on commercially advantageous terms or at all. If we make any acquisitions or investments, we may finance such acquisitions or investments through our cash reserves, debt financing, or by issuing additional equity securities, which could dilute the holdings of our then-existing stockholders. If we require financing, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to obtain required financing when needed on acceptable terms or at all. Any such acquisitions or investments could also result in an increase in goodwill, intangible assets and amortization expenses that could ultimately negatively impact our profitability. If the fair value of our goodwill or intangible assets is determined at some future date to be less than its recorded value, a charge to earnings may be required. Such a charge could be in an amount that is material to our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in assimilating the personnel, operations and products of the acquired companies, the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, risks of entering markets in which we have limited or no prior experience, and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company. There may be overlap between our products or customers and those of an acquired entity that may create conflicts in relationships or other commitments detrimental to the integrated businesses. As a result of acquiring businesses, we may incur significant transaction costs, including substantial fees for investment bankers, attorneys, accountants and financial printing. Any acquisition could result in our assumption of unknown and/or unexpected, perhaps material liabilities. Additionally, in any acquisition agreement, the negotiated representations, warranties and agreements of the selling parties may not entirely protect us, and liabilities resulting from any breaches could exceed negotiated indemnity limitations. 37 Table of Contents The terms of our revolving credit facility impose financial and operating restrictions on us. We have a revolving credit facility in the aggregate principal amount of $50 million. Our revolving credit facility contains a number of negative covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities. These covenants limit or restrict, among other things, our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness and grant liens on assets; • make certain investments and restricted payments (including the ability to pay dividends and repurchase stock); • undertake certain acquisitions or sell certain assets; and • enter into certain transactions with our affiliates. These limitations and restrictions may adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be in our best interests. Further, the revolving credit facility subjects us to various financial covenants which require us to maintain certain levels of debt ratios and limit our capital expenditures. Our ability to borrow under the revolving bank facility is subject to compliance with the negative and financial covenants. If we breach any of the covenants in our revolving credit facility, we may be in default under our revolving credit facility. If we default, our borrowings under the revolving credit facility could be declared due and payable, including accrued interest and other fees. There are inherent uncertainties involved in estimates, judgments and assumptions used in the preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP. Any future changes in estimates, judgments and assumptions used or necessary revisions to prior estimates, judgments or assumptions could lead to a restatement of our results. The consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are prepared in accordance with GAAP. This involves making estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets (including intangible assets), liabilities, revenues, expenses and income. Estimates, judgments and assumptions are inherently subject to change in the future and any necessary revisions to prior estimates, judgments or assumptions could lead to a restatement. Any such changes could result in corresponding changes to the amounts of assets (including goodwill and other intangible assets), liabilities, revenues, expenses and income. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, timely file our periodic reports, maintain our reporting status or prevent fraud. Our management or our independent registered public accounting firm may identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. The existence of internal control material weaknesses may result in current and potential stockholders and alliance and collaboration agreements’ partners losing confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business, the market price of our common stock, and our ability to retain our current, or obtain new, alliance and collaboration agreements’ partners. In addition, the existence of material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting may affect our ability to timely file periodic reports under the Exchange Act. Although we remedied any past accounting issues and do not believe similar accounting problems are likely to recur, an internal control material weakness may develop in the future and affect our ability to timely file our periodic reports. The inability to timely file periodic reports under the Exchange Act could result in the SEC revoking the registration of our common stock, which would prohibit us from listing or having our stock quoted on any public market. This would have an adverse effect on our business and stock price by limiting the publicly available information regarding us and greatly reducing the ability of our stockholders to sell or trade our common stock. Our business could suffer as a result of manufacturing difficulties or delays. The manufacture of certain of our products and product candidates, particularly our controlled-release products, is more difficult than the manufacture of immediate-release products. Successful manufacturing of these types of products requires precise manufacturing process controls, API that conforms to very tight tolerances for specific characteristics and equipment that operates consistently within narrow performance ranges. Manufacturing complexity, testing requirements, and safety and security processes combine to increase the overall difficulty of manufacturing these products and resolving manufacturing problems that we may encounter. Our manufacturing and other processes utilize sophisticated equipment, which sometimes require a significant amount of time to obtain and install. Our business could suffer if certain manufacturing or other equipment, or a portion or all of our facilities were to become inoperable for a period of time. This could occur for various reasons, including catastrophic events such as earthquake, hurricane or explosion, unexpected equipment failures or delays in obtaining components or replacements thereof, as well as construction delays or defects and other events, both within and outside of our control. Our inability to timely manufacture any of our significant products could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. 38 Table of Contents Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may adversely affect our business. Terrorist attacks at or nearby our facilities in Hayward, California, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, or our manufacturing facility in Taiwan may negatively affect our operations. While we do not believe that we are more susceptible to such attacks than other companies, such attacks could directly affect our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers and could make the transportation of our products more difficult and more expensive and ultimately affect our sales. We carry insurance coverage on our facilities of types and in amounts that we believe are in line with coverage customarily obtained by owners of similar properties. We continue to monitor the state of the insurance market in general and the scope and cost of coverage for acts of terrorism in particular, but we cannot anticipate what coverage will be available on commercially reasonable terms in future policy years. Currently, we carry terrorism insurance as part of our property and casualty and business interruption coverage. If we experience a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds policy limits, we could lose the capital invested in the damaged facilities, as well as the anticipated future net sales from those facilities. Because of the location of our manufacturing and research and development facilities, our operations could be interrupted by an earthquake or be susceptible to climate changes. Our corporate headquarters in California, manufacturing operations in California and Taiwan, and research and development activities related to process technologies are located near major earthquake fault lines. Although we have other facilities, we produce a substantial portion of our products at our California facility. A disruption at these California facilities due to an earthquake, other natural disaster, or due to climate changes, even on a short-term basis, could impair our ability to produce and ship products to the market on a timely basis. In addition, we could experience a destruction of facilities which would be costly to rebuild, or loss of life, all of which could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. We presently carry $ 10.0 million of earthquake coverage which covers all of our facilities on a worldwide basis. We carry an additional $ 40.0 million of earthquake coverage specifically for our California facilities. We believe the aggregate amount of earthquake coverage we currently carry is appropriate in light of the risks; however, the amount of our earthquake insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover losses from earthquakes. We may discontinue some or all of this insurance coverage in the future if the cost of premiums exceeds the value of the coverage discounted for the risk of loss. If we experience a loss which is uninsured or which exceeds policy limits, we could lose the capital invested in the damaged facilities, as well as the anticipated future net sales from those facilities. 39 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 