Item 1A. Risk Factors In evaluating and understanding us and our business, you should carefully consider (1) all of the information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto and Management’s Discussion and Analysis, (2) information in our other filings with the SEC, including any future reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K and (3) the risks described below. These are not the only risks we face. Additional risks not presently known or which we currently deem immaterial may also impact our business operations, and the risks identified below may adversely affect our business in ways we cannot currently anticipate. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. 10 Table of Contents We incurred losses in 2008, 2009 and 2010, and expect to continue to incur losses in 2011. Our procedure volume in 2010 decreased substantially from 2009 due in large part to continued weak consumer confidence, a weak overall economy, and high unemployment. We sustained losses in all four quarters in 2010 and 2009. We anticipate that in 2011 we will continue generating losses and negative cash flows. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, we had approximately $51.9 million and $54.6 million, respectively, in cash and investments. We are uncertain as to how long the negative economic and industry conditions will continue. There could be a number of other effects from these adverse economic conditions on our business, including reduced consumer demand for our services; insolvency of our customers, resulting in increased provisions for credit losses; insolvency of our key equipment suppliers; inability of consumers to obtain credit to finance some or all of the cost of their procedures; and decreased consumer confidence. If macroeconomic conditions do not improve, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Changes in general economic conditions may cause fluctuations in our revenues and profitability. The cost of laser vision correction procedures typically is not reimbursed by third-party payers such as health care insurance companies or government programs. Accordingly, as we are experiencing and have experienced in prior fiscal periods, our operating results may vary based upon the impact of changes in the disposable income of consumers interested in laser vision correction, among other economic factors. A significant decrease in consumer disposable income in a weakening economy results in a decrease in the number of laser vision procedures performed and a decline in our revenues and profitability. In addition, weak economic conditions may cause some of our patients to experience financial distress or declare bankruptcy, which may negatively impact our accounts receivable collection experience. Weak economic conditions also may change the risk profile or volume of business that our unaffiliated finance company partner is willing to underwrite, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our industry is highly correlated with consumer confidence. Recessionary economic conditions, uncertainty in the credit markets, a period of rising energy costs and depressed housing prices have all contributed to a deterioration in volume of procedures performed, especially from patients at middle- and lower-income levels. Deteriorating consumer confidence negatively impacts our financial performance. The current market conditions in the credit markets and high unemployment are creating uncertainty and causing potential patients to be more cautious in their purchasing decisions. Our quarterly and annual operating results are subject to significant fluctuations. Our revenue and operating results have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year depending on many factors, including but not limited to: • Market acceptance of laser vision correction services • The number of laser vision correction procedures performed • The timing of advances by our suppliers and the purchase of such advances or upgrades of equipment by us or our competitors • The impact of competitors, including those who compete by deeply discounting the price of laser vision correction services, in the geographic areas in which we operate • Declining economic conditions in the geographic areas in which we operate, which can result in decreased demand for our laser vision correction services • The opening, closing or expansion of vision centers • Our ability to manage equipment and operating costs • Collection rates on self-financed procedures • The availability of third-party financing for our patients • Regulatory matters • Litigation • Acquisitions and other transactions In addition, our revenue and operating results are subject to seasonal factors. In terms of the number of procedures performed, our strongest quarter historically has been the first quarter of the year, and our business is generally weaker in the latter half of the year. We believe these fluctuations are primarily due to: • The availability to potential patients of funds under typical employer medical flexible spending plans and health savings plans • Time constraints imposed by the summer vacation and holiday seasons and a desire by some individuals not to schedule procedures at those times of year Reductions in revenues or net income between quarters or our failure to achieve expected quarterly earnings per share has in the past and could in the future result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. 11 Table of Contents Our business is very reliant upon direct-to-consumer marketing. The effectiveness of our marketing programs and messages to consumers can have a significant impact on our financial performance. The effectiveness of marketing fluctuates, resulting in changes in the cost of marketing per procedure, and variations in our margins. Less effective marketing programs could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We derive substantially all of our revenue from laser vision correction services. A decrease in the provision of these services could result in a significant decrease in our revenues and profitability. We derive substantially all of our revenues from laser vision correction services. If we are not able to provide those services or the number of laser vision correction procedures we perform significantly decreases, our revenues and profitability will decrease materially. We do not currently have other diversified revenue sources to offset a significant decrease in revenues from our provision of laser vision correction services. Our future success may depend on developing new services or products beyond laser vision correction. During the fourth quarter of 2010, we added over-the-counter eye drop products in all of our centers. We also are evaluating a co-management/management services offering designed to generate revenue by attracting patients to LasikPlus and offering provisional services to optometrists, as well as potential expansion into cataract and intraocular lens surgery. Any potential diversification of services may not be successful, and we can make no assurance that these opportunities can be developed or that we will have adequate capital to do so. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified independent ophthalmologists, our ability to maintain operations at existing vision centers, to attract patients or to open new vision centers could be negatively affected. We generate our revenues through independent ophthalmologists who work with us to perform surgeries. In states where the corporate practice of medicine is prohibited, we contract with professional corporations for ophthalmologists to perform surgeries at our vision centers. The retention of those ophthalmologists is a critical factor in the success of our existing vision centers, and the hiring of independent qualified ophthalmologists is a critical factor in our ability to launch a new vision center successfully. However, it is sometimes difficult for us to retain or hire qualified ophthalmologists. If we are unable consistently to attract, hire and retain qualified ophthalmologists, our ability to open new vision centers, maintain operations at existing vision centers, and attract patients could be negatively affected. In the fourth quarter of 2010, we began to feature our ophthalmologists in local marketing materials. If we are unable to retain these featured ophthalmologists, our ability to maintain operations at existing vision centers and attract patients could be negatively affected. If technological changes occur which render our equipment or services obsolete, or increase our cost structure, we may need to make significant capital expenditures or modify our business model, which could cause our revenues or profitability to decline. Industry, competitive or clinical factors, among others, may require us to introduce alternate ophthalmic laser technology or other surgical or non-surgical methods for correcting refractive vision disorders than those that we currently use in our laser vision correction centers. Such alternative technologies could include various intraocular lens technologies or other new technologies. Introducing such technology could require significant capital investment or force us to modify our business model in such a way as to make our revenues or profits decline. An increase in costs could reduce our ability to maintain our profit margin. An increase in prices could adversely affect our ability to attract new patients. If a better-financed or lower-cost provider of laser vision correction or a competing vision treatment forces us to lower our laser surgery prices in a particular geographic area, our revenues and profitability could decline. Laser eye surgery competes with other surgical and non-surgical treatments for refractive vision disorders, including eyeglasses, contact lenses, other types of refractive surgery, corneal implants and other technologies currently under development. Among providers of laser vision correction, competition comes from firms similar to us and from hospitals, hospital-affiliated group entities, physician group practices and private ophthalmologists, among others that, in order to offer laser vision correction to patients, purchase or rent excimer lasers. Suppliers of conventional eyeglasses and contact lenses, such as optometry chains, also may compete with us by purchasing laser systems and offering laser vision correction to their customers. 12 Table of Contents Some of our current competitors or other companies that may choose to enter the industry in the future, including laser manufacturers themselves, may have substantially greater financial, technical, managerial, marketing or other resources and experience than we do and may be able to compete more effectively. Competition in the market for laser vision correction may also increase as excimer laser surgery becomes more common and the number of ophthalmologists performing the procedure increases. Similarly, competition could increase if the market for laser vision correction does not experience growth, and existing providers compete for market share. Additional competition may develop, particularly if the price to purchase or rent excimer laser systems decreases. Our management, operations, strategy and marketing plans may not be successful in meeting this competition. If more competitors offer laser vision correction or other competitive types of vision treatments in a given geographic market, we might find it necessary to reduce the prices we charge, particularly if competitors offer the procedures at lower prices than we do. If that were to happen or we were not successful in cost effectively acquiring patients for our procedures, we may not be able to make up for the reduced profit margin by increasing the number of procedures that we perform, and our business, financial condition and results from operations could be adversely affected, as we have experienced in prior fiscal periods. Our business has been adversely affected in the past by deeply-discounted pricing by some competitors, and it is possible that such competitive practices may adversely affect our business in the future. In the past, certain competitors have utilized deeply-discounted pricing in an effort to generate procedure volume. This practice has caused periods of intense price competition in our industry. As a result, we have lowered our prices in the past in order to remain competitive. We currently face competitors offering discounted prices, including several providers of laser vision correction centers, in some geographic markets where we conduct business. It is possible that, in the future, business, financial condition and results from operations could be adversely affected, as a result of the discounting practices of competitors. We have credit risk from accounts receivable from internally financed patients. A significant percentage of our patients finance some or all of the cost of their procedure. We provide certain of our patients, including patients who could not otherwise obtain third-party financing, with the ability to pay for our procedures with direct financing. The terms of our direct financing typically require the customer to pay a fee up-front, with the remaining balance paid by the patient in up to 36 monthly installments. As of December 31, 2010, we had $4.4 million in gross patient receivables, compared to $7.7 million as of December 31, 2009. We are exposed to significant credit risk from our direct financing program, particularly given that patients who participate in the program generally have not been deemed creditworthy by third-party financing companies with more experience in credit issues. If the uncollectible amounts exceed the amounts that we have reserved, we could be required to write down our accounts receivable, and our cash flow and results of operations would be adversely affected. Extensive state and federal laws and regulations, some of which may be applicable to our business operations, regulate the extension of credit to patients. Although we believe that our practices are in material compliance with these laws and regulations, non-compliance could subject us to litigation, enforcement action, or civil or criminal penalties. Any such action could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If laser vision correction does not gain broader market acceptance, our profitability and growth will be severely limited. We believe that our profitability and expansion depend to a large extent on the acceptance of laser vision correction as a safe and effective treatment. There can be no assurance that laser vision correction will be accepted more widely by ophthalmologists, optometrists or the general population as an alternative to existing or future methods of treating refractive vision disorders. In terms of procedure volume, the industry was relatively flat from 2005 through 2007 and declined in 2008 through 2010 largely due to economic conditions. Wider acceptance of laser vision correction may be affected adversely by: • Concerns about the safety and effectiveness of laser vision correction procedures, including procedures using new technologies • General resistance to surgery of any type, and eye surgery in particular • Cost, particularly because laser vision correction is not typically covered by government or private insurers • The effectiveness of alternate methods of correcting refractive vision disorders, including but not limited to various intraocular lens technologies • Possible unknown side effects not yet revealed by long-term follow-up data • Regulatory developments • Reported adverse events or other unfavorable publicity involving patient outcomes from laser vision correction • The results of the FDA’s LASIK study, expected to be completed in 2012 13 Table of Contents Concerns about potential side effects and long-term results may negatively impact market acceptance of laser vision correction, result in potential liability for us and prevent us from growing our business. Some people and publications have raised concerns with respect to the predictability and stability of results and potential complications or side effects of laser vision correction. Physicians have provided laser vision correction in the United States since 1995. Any long-term complications or side effects of laser vision correction may call into question its safety and effectiveness, which in turn may negatively affect market acceptance of laser vision correction. Complications or side effects of laser vision correction could lead to professional liability, malpractice or other claims against us and product liability claims against the manufacturers of our lasers. Courts have awarded several significant verdicts against non-affiliated refractive surgeons in the past. Consequences of proceedings could include increased liability to us in connection with malpractice litigation, increased difficulty in hiring and retaining qualified independent ophthalmologists who may be wary of the increased liability of laser eye surgery, and decreased operational and financial yield from pre-operative examinations, among other effects that would be adverse to our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Some of the possible side effects of laser vision correction may include: • Foreign body sensation • Pain or discomfort • Sensitivity to bright lights • Blurred vision or haze • Dryness or tearing • Fluctuation in vision • Night glare and halos • Poor or reduced visual quality • Overcorrection or undercorrection • Regression • Decreased corneal integrity • Corneal flap or corneal healing complications • Loss of best corrected visual acuity • Inflammation or infection of the eye • Need for corrective lenses or reading glasses post-operatively • Need for further treatment We depend on limited sources for the excimer lasers and diagnostic equipment we use and for the third-party financing made available to our patients. Shortages of these items or services could hinder our ability to increase our procedure volume. We use two suppliers, AMO and Alcon, for our excimer lasers. If either or both of these companies became unwilling or unable to supply us with excimer lasers and diagnostic equipment or to repair or replace parts or to provide services, our ability to maintain or increase our capacity to perform laser vision correction services at existing vision centers or to open new vision centers could be restricted. We currently rely primarily on AMO to provide us with patient interface kits, the devices used to create the corneal flap in the LASIK procedure, and McKesson for other disposable items required for LASIK. If we were to require alternate or additional suppliers, we believe we would be able to find alternative sources, but there can be no assurance that such items would be available in the quantities or within the time frames that we require. Any shortages in our supplies of this equipment could limit our ability to maintain or increase the volume of procedures that we perform, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results from operations. We currently rely exclusively on one unaffiliated finance company for third-party financing made available to our patients. The percentage of our patients who choose to obtain financing from such unaffiliated finance company is significant. There can be no assurance that financing services will be available in such structures or at such interest rates or costs as we or our patients may require. Any reduction in available financing could limit our ability to maintain or increase the volume of procedures that we perform, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results from operations. 14 Table of Contents Our business may be impaired due to government regulations which could restrict our equipment, services and relationships with ophthalmologists, optometrists and other healthcare providers. As described under “Government Regulation” and below, we, excimer laser manufacturers and our other business partners, including managed care companies and third-party patient financing companies, among others, are subject to extensive federal, state and foreign laws, rules and regulations, including all or some of the following: • Federal restrictions on the approval, distribution and use of medical devices • Anti-kickback statutes in some states • Fee-splitting laws in some states • Corporate practice of medicine restrictions in some states • Physician self-referral laws in some states • Anti-fraud provisions in some states • Facility license requirements and certificates of need in some states • Conflict of interest regulations in some states • FDA, FTC, and state rules and regulations regarding advertising and marketing practices • Credit and financing regulation Some of these laws and regulations are vague or ambiguous, and courts and regulatory authorities have not always provided clarification. Moreover, state and local law, including, but not limited to those on sales and use taxes, vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. As a result, some of our activities could be challenged, the success of which cannot be predicted. The failure of our suppliers to obtain regulatory approvals for any additional uses of excimer or femtosecond lasers or otherwise comply with regulatory requirements could limit the number of excimer or femtosecond lasers that we have available for use and, therefore, limit the number of procedures that we can perform. Failure of the laser manufacturers to comply with applicable FDA requirements could subject us, the independent ophthalmologists who practice in our vision centers or those manufacturers to enforcement actions, including product seizure, recalls, withdrawal of approvals and civil and criminal penalties. Further, failure to comply with regulatory requirements, or any adverse regulatory action, could result in limitations or prohibitions on our use of excimer or femtosecond lasers. Any such actions or proceedings could result in negative publicity, which in turn could result in decreased demand for our services and decrease our capacity to perform laser vision correction services. Our business is heavily dependent on advertising, which is subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) and various state boards of medicine and optometry. We are subject to a 2003 FTC Consent Order in which it was agreed, among other things, that we would not represent in our advertising that our LASIK surgery services eliminate the need for glasses and contacts for life, pose significantly less risk to patients’ eye health than wearing glasses or contacts, or eliminate the risk of glare and haloing, unless, at the time made, we possess and rely upon competent and reliable scientific evidence that substantiates the representation. We cannot be certain that this order to which we agreed, or any future action by the FTC, will not restrict our laser vision correction services, or otherwise result in negative publicity and damage our reputation. Our business may be adversely impacted by healthcare reform. The enactment of the Patient Protection and Affordable Cost Act in 2010 and the activity continuing in the U.S. Congress, several of the states and the courts do not allow us to predict accurately the impact of healthcare reform. Healthcare reform may bring significant changes in the financing and regulation of the healthcare industry. For example, the law currently states that flexible spending account contributions would be limited to $2,500 beginning in 2013. Depending on the nature of such changes and if they go into effect, they could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The FDA is conducting a study to examine LASIK’s impact on quality of life, the results of which could adversely impact broader market acceptance, and our profitability and growth. The FDA has launched a collaborative study with the National Eye Institute and the U.S. Department of Defense to examine LASIK’s potential impact on quality of life. The goal of the LASIK Quality of Life Collaboration Project is to determine the percentage of patients with significant quality of life problems after LASIK surgery and to identify predictors of these problems. The project is expected to end in 2012. The results of the project will help identify factors that can affect quality of life following LASIK and potentially reduce the risk of adverse affects that can impact the surgical outcome. If any of these factors are related to the safety or effectiveness of the lasers used in LASIK surgery, the FDA will evaluate whether any action is necessary. The project is part of the FDA’s ongoing effort to better monitor and improve the safety and effectiveness of the lasers used in LASIK surgery. The results of this study could adversely impact broader market acceptance of LASIK, which could have a direct impact on our profitability and growth. In addition, any new adverse regulatory actions by the FDA could result in limitations or prohibitions with respect to LASIK surgery. 15 Table of Contents We are subject to lawsuits for patient injuries, which could subject us to significant judgments and damage our reputation. The laser vision correction procedures performed in our vision centers involve the risk of injury to patients. Such risk could result in professional liability, malpractice, or other claims brought against us, or our independent ophthalmologists and optometrists based upon injuries or alleged injuries associated with malpractice by an ophthalmologist, optometrist, technician or other healthcare professional. Product liability claims could also be made against our manufacturers associated with defects in their products. Some injuries or defects may not become evident for a number of years. Significant lawsuits against us could subject us to significant judgments and damage our reputation. In addition, a partially or completely uninsured claim against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely primarily and intend to continue to rely primarily on the independent ophthalmologists’ professional liability insurance policies and the manufacturers’ product liability insurance policies, although we have limited umbrella general and professional liability insurance. We require the independent ophthalmologists who use our vision centers to maintain certain levels of professional liability insurance, although an inability of ophthalmologists to procure insurance could disrupt business while replacement ophthalmologists are being recruited. The availability of professional liability insurance has decreased and its cost has increased significantly for a variety of reasons, including reasons outside our control, particularly in certain states. A future increase in cost could result in the reduced profitability of our business, and a future lack of availability of coverage for us or our independent ophthalmologists and optometrists could result in increased exposure to liability and potentially limit our ability to expand in certain markets. We own a captive insurance company and its payment of significant claims could affect our results of operations and financial condition. We maintain a captive insurance company to provide professional liability insurance coverage for claims brought against us after December 17, 2002. In addition, our captive insurance company’s charter allows it to provide professional liability insurance for our doctors. Our captive insurance company is capitalized and funded by us based on actuarial studies performed by an independent insurance consulting and management firm. The Company uses the captive insurance company for both the primary insurance and the excess liability coverage. A number of claims are now pending with our captive insurance company. The payment of significant claims by our captive insurance company could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Disputes with respect to intellectual property could result in a decrease in revenues and profitability. We have not registered all of the names we use for our products and services with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. Some of our internal processes and systems do not have intellectual property protection. If a competitor were to attempt to use our names, processes or systems, we may not be able to prevent such use. The unauthorized use of our name could cause confusion among patients, and the misappropriation of internal processes or systems could reduce our competitive advantages, either of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The loss of the services of any members of our senior management team could impair our ability to execute our business strategy and as a result, reduce our sales and profitability. We depend on the continued services of our senior management team. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse affect on our ability to execute our business strategy and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not maintain key-person insurance for members of our senior management team. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 