Item 1A. Risk Factors RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR SUBSIDIARIES Many titles have short lifecycles and fail to generate significant revenues. The market for entertainment software is characterized by short product lifecycles and frequent introduction of new products. Many software titles do not achieve sustained market acceptance or do not generate a sufficient level of sales to offset the costs associated with product development. A significant percentage of the sales of new titles generally occurs within the first three months following their release. Therefore, continued profitability depends upon the ability to acquire and sell new, commercially successful titles and to replace revenues from titles in the later stages of their lifecycles. Any competitive, financial, technological or other factor which delays or impairs the ability to introduce and sell the software could adversely affect future operating results. We may fail to anticipate changing consumer preferences. The business is speculative and is subject to all of the risks generally associated with the entertainment software industry, which has been cyclical in nature and has been characterized by periods of significant growth followed by rapid declines. The future operating results will depend on numerous factors beyond control, including: • the popularity, price and timing of new software and hardware platforms being released and distributed by us and our competitors; • international, national and regional economic conditions, particularly economic conditions adversely affecting discretionary consumer spending; • changes in consumer demographics; • the availability of other forms of entertainment; and • critical reviews and public tastes and preferences, all of which change rapidly and cannot be predicted. In order to plan for acquisition and promotional activities, we must anticipate and respond to rapid changes in consumer tastes and preferences. A decline in the popularity of entertainment software or particular platforms could cause sales of titles to decline dramatically. 6 Our business is highly dependent on the success and availability of video game hardware systems manufactured by third parties, as well as our ability to develop commercially successful products for these systems. We derive most of our revenue from the sale of products for play on video game hardware systems (which we also refer to as “platforms”) manufactured by third parties, such as Microsoft’s Xbox 360 and Xbox platforms, Sony’s PS2 and PSP platforms, Nintendo’s Wii and DS. The success of our business isdriven in large part by the commercial success and adequate supply of these video game hardware systems, our ability to accurately predict which systems will be successful in the marketplace, and our ability to develop commercially successful products for these systems. We must make product development decisions and commit significant resources well in advance of anticipated product ship dates. A platform for which we are developing products may not succeed or may have a shorter life cycle than anticipated. If consumer demand for the systems for which we are developing products is lower than our expectations, our revenue will suffer, we may be unable to fully recover the investments we have made in developing our products, and our financial performance will be harmed. Alternatively, a system for which we have not devoted significant resources could be more successful than we had initially anticipated, causing us to miss out on meaningful revenue opportunities. Our business is intensely competitive and “hit” driven. If we do not deliver a “hit” product or if consumers prefer our competitors’ products or services over our own, our operating results could suffer. Competition in our industry is intense and we expect new competitors to continue to emerge in the United States and abroad. While many new products and services are regularly introduced, only a relatively small number of “hit” titles accounts for a significant portion of total revenue in our industry. Hit products or services offered by our competitors may take a larger share of consumer spending than we anticipate, which could cause revenue generated from our products and services to fall below expectations. If our competitors develop more successful products or services, offer competitive products or services at lower price points or based on payment models perceived as offering a better value proposition (such as pay-for-play or subscription-based models) our revenue, margins, and profitability will decline. We may not be able to protect the proprietary rights. We acquire proprietary software and technologies and attempt to protect the software and production-related intellectual property under copyright, trademark and trade secret laws as well as through contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and distribution. Entertainment software is susceptible to unauthorized copying. Unauthorized third parties may be able to copy or to reverse engineer the software to obtain and use programming or production techniques that are regarded as proprietary. In addition, competitors could independently develop technologies substantially equivalent or superior to our technologies. We may be subject to intellectual propriety claims. As the number of entertainment software products increases and the features and content of these products continue to overlap, software developers increasingly may become subject to infringement claims. Many of the products are highly realistic and feature materials that are based on real world examples, which may inadvertently infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. Our products often utilize complex technology that may become subject to the intellectual property rights of others. Although reasonable efforts are made to ensure that the products do not violate the intellectual property rights of others, it is possible that third-parties still may claim infringement. From time to time, communications are received from third-parties regarding such claims. Existing or future infringement claims against us, whether valid or not, may be time consuming and expensive to defend. Intellectual property litigation or claims could force us to do one or more of the following: • cease selling, incorporating or using products or services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property, which if available at all, may not be available on commercially favorable terms; or 7 • redesign the effected entertainment software products, which could cause additional costs, delay introduction and possibly reduce commercial appeal of the products. Any of these actions may cause material harm to the business and financial results. Rating systems for entertainment software, potential legislation and consumer opposition could inhibit sales of products for the Company. The home video game industry requires entertainment software publishers to provide consumers with information relating to graphic violence or sexually explicit material contained in software titles. Certain countries have also established similar rating systems as prerequisites for sales of entertainment software in such countries. We believe that we are in compliance with such rating systems and displays the ratings received for the titles. The software titles generally receive a rating of “G” (all ages) or “T” (age 13 and over), although certain titles receive a rating of “M” (age 18 and over), which may limit the potential markets for these titles. Several proposals have been made for federal legislation to regulate the entertainment software, motion picture and recording industries, including a proposal to adopt a common rating system for entertainment software, television and music containing violence and sexually explicit material and an inquiry by the Federal Trade Commission with respect to the marketing of such material to minors. Consumer advocacy groups have also opposed sales of entertainment software containing graphic violence and sexually explicit material by pressing for legislation in these areas and by engaging in public demonstrations and media campaigns. If any groups were to target the titles, we might be required to significantly change or discontinue a particular title. We operate in a highly competitive industry. The entertainment software industry is intensely competitive and new entertainment software products and platforms are regularly introduced. Our competitors vary in size from small companies with limited resources to very large corporations with significantly greater financial, marketing and product development resources. Due to these greater resources, certain of our competitors can spend more money and time on developing and testing products, undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies, pay higher fees to licensors for desirable motion picture, television, sports and character properties and pay more to third-party software developers. The main competitive factors in the entertainment software industry include: product features and playability; brand name recognition; compatibility of products with popular platforms; access to distribution channels; quality of products; ease of use; price; marketing support; and quality of customer service. We also face increasing competition for the leisure and entertainment time of consumers. The publishing business competes with all other sources of information and entertainment, including television, movies, music, live events, radio broadcasts, home video products, print media and the Internet. Technological advancements, such as new streaming capabilities and downloading entertainment via the Internet, have increased the number of media and entertainment choices available to consumers and presents challenges as the audience becomes more fragmented. The increasing number of choices available to consumers could negatively impact demand for products, or require the use of additional resources to develop more sophisticated software, or both. If not responded effectively to increases in the leisure and entertainment choices available to consumers, it could have an adverse effect on our competitive position and revenues. If products contain defects, the business could be harmed significantly. Software products as complex as the ones published may contain undetected errors when first introduced or when new versions are released. Despite extensive testing prior to release, the Company cannot be certain that errors will not be found in new products or releases after shipment, that could result in loss of or delay in market acceptance. This loss or delay could significantly harm the business and financial results. 8 We rely on independent third parties to develop its software products. We rely on independent third-party entertainment software developers to develop a number of our software products. Since the dependence on these developers remains subject to the following risks: • continuing strong demand for developers’ resources, combined with the recognition they receive in connection with their work, may cause developers who worked in the past either to work for competitors in the future or to renegotiate agreements with them on terms less favorable for us; • limited financial resources and business expertise and inability to retain skilled personnel may force developers out of business prior to completing the products or require additional funding costs; and • competitors may acquire the businesses of key developers or sign them to exclusive development arrangements. In either case, we would not be able to continue to engage such developers’ services for the products, except for those that they are contractually obligated to complete for us. Due to the limited number of third-party developers and the limited control that is exercised over them, these developers may not be able to complete titles on a timely basis or within acceptable quality standards, if at all. The software game market has gravitated toward mass merchant retailers. The software game market has gravitated toward mass merchant retailers thereby increasing the competition for shelf space for games. This increased competition has emphasized the importance of marketing, merchandising and brand name recognition. A significant result of these market pressures is an industry trend toward the consolidation of consumer entertainment software publishers and distributors, in addition to the diversification of products offered by these companies. The trends toward industry consolidation and increased competition for game content and retail shelf space are more pronounced in North America than in international markets and are expected to continue for the foreseeable future. We may face difficultly obtaining access to retail shelf space necessary to market and sell the products effectively. Retailers of our products typically have a limited amount of shelf space and promotional resources, and there is intense competition among consumer entertainment software products for high quality retail shelf space and promotional support from retailers. To the extent that the number of products and platforms increases, competition for shelf space may intensify and may require us to increase marketing expenditures. Retailers with limited shelf space typically devote the most and highest quality shelf space to those products expected to be best sellers. We cannot be certain that the new products will achieve such “best seller” status. Due to increased competition for limited shelf space, retailers and distributors are in an increasingly better position to negotiate favorable terms of sale, including price discounts, price protection, marketing and display fees and product return policies. The products constitute a relatively small percentage of any retailer’s sales volume. We cannot be certain that retailers will continue to purchase products or to provide products with adequate levels of shelf space and promotional support on acceptable terms. A prolonged failure in this regard may significantly harm the business and financial results. 9 We permit customers to return products and to receive pricing concessions which could reduce net revenues and results of operations. We are exposed to the risk of product returns and price protection with respect to distributors and retailers. Return policies allow distributors and retailers to return defective, shelf-worn and damaged products in accordance with terms granted. Price protection, when granted and applicable, allows customers a credit against amounts owed with respect to merchandise unsold by them. We may permit product returns from, or grant price protection to, customers under certain conditions. The conditions customers must meet to be granted the right to return products or price protection are, among other things, compliance with applicable payment terms, delivery of weekly inventory and sell-through reports, and consistent participation in the launches of premium title releases. Other factors may be considered, including the facilitation of slow-moving inventory and other market factors. When price protection is offered, it is offered with respect to a particular product to all retail customers; however, only those customers who meet the conditions detailed above can avail themselves of such price protection. Although a reserve for returns and price protection is maintained, and although limits on product returns and price protection may be placed, we could be forced to accept substantial product returns and provide substantial price protection to maintain relationships with retailers and access to distribution channels. Product returns and price protection which exceeds reserves could significantly harm business and financial results. Technology changes rapidly in the business and failure to anticipate or successfully implement new technologies, the quality, timeliness and competitiveness of products and services will suffer. Rapid technology changes in the industry require anticipation, sometimes years in advance, which technologies must be implemented and taken advantage of in order to make products and services competitive in the market. Therefore, the Company usually starts product development with a range of technical development goals that can be achieved. These may not be able to be achieved or the competition may be able to achieve them more quickly. In either case, the products and services may be technologically inferior to some competitors, less appealing to consumers, or both. If the Company cannot achieve the technology goals within the original development schedule of products and services, then their release may be delayed until these technology goals can be achieved, which may delay or reduce revenue and increase development costs. Alternatively, the resources employed may increase in research and development in an attempt to accelerate the development of new technologies, either to preserve the product or service launch schedule, or to keep up with the competition, which would increase the development costs. The business is highly dependent on the success, timely release and availability of new video game platforms, on the continued availability of existing video game platforms, as well as the ability to have commercially successful products developed for these platforms. We derive a majority of its revenue from the sale of products for play on video game platforms manufactured by third parties, such as Sony’s PlayStation 2, PlayStation 3 and PSP; and Microsoft’s Xbox, Xbox 360 and Nintendo Wii and DS. The success of this business is driven in large part by the availability of an adequate supply of current generation video game platforms, the adequate supply, and, increasingly, the success of new video game hardware systems, the ability to accurately predict which platforms will be successful in the marketplace, and the ability to have commercially successful products developed for these platforms. We must make product development decisions and commit significant resources well in advance of the anticipated introduction of a new platform. A new platform for which products are being developed may not succeed or may have a shorter life cycle than anticipated. Alternatively, a platform which has not had significant resources devoted to it could be more successful than had initially been anticipated, causing a meaningful revenue opportunity to be missed. If the platforms for which products are being developed are not available in adequate quantities to meet consumer demand or are lower than expectations, or do not attain wide market acceptance, revenue will suffer and financial performance will be harmed. 10 The video game hardware manufacturers set the royalty rates and other fees that must be paid to publish games for their platforms and, therefore, have significant influence on costs. If one or more of these manufacturers adopt a different fee structure for future game consoles, profitability will be materially impacted. In order to publish products for a video game system such as the Xbox 360, PlayStation 3 or Wii, we must take a license from the manufacturer, which gives it the opportunity to set the fee structure that must be paid in order to publish games for that platform. Similarly, certain manufacturers have retained the flexibility to change their fee structures, or adopt different fee structures for online gameplay and other new features for their consoles. The control that hardware manufacturers have over the fee structures for their platforms and online access makes it difficult to predict costs, profitability and impact on margins. Because publishing products for video game systems is the largest portion of the business, any increase in fee structures would significantly harm the ability to generate revenues and/or profits. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OPERATIONS We need to raise additional capital to ensure continued operations. We incurred significant losses in the years ended June 30, 2008, 2007 and 2006. These losses have required us to raise additional capital in order to fund our operations. Substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern exists unless additional capital can be obtained. On September 9, 2008, the Company and Empire Interactive entered into a term sheet with a fund whereby Empire would be provide a senior secured revolving loan of up to $8 million. The loan will be secured by all of the assets of Empire and is subject to borrowing base availability which consists of accounts receivable inventory and intellectual property. The loan proceeds will be used to repay the outstanding balance of the current Barclays Commercial line of credit, finance the development and marketing of existing and new games and for working capital purposes. Based on the current due diligence and legal documentation, the company anticipates this loan to close in early November. With the current turmoil in international debt and credit markets, there is no assurance that we will be able to close this loan facility nor is there any assurance that we will be able to find alternative sources of funding. 11 Covenants in agreements relating to the Variable Rate Secured Convertible Debentures due April 30, 2010 and the 9% Secured Convertible Debentures due March 19, 2012 may limit flexibility and prevent the Company from taking certain actions which could adversely affect the ability to execute the business strategy. The agreements relating to our Variable Rate Secured Convertible Debentures due April 30, 2010 and 9% Secured Convertible Debentures due March 19, 2012 and contain significant restrictive covenants. These covenants could adversely limit the ability to plan for or react to market conditions, meet capital needs and execute the business strategy. These covenants, among other things, limit the ability to issue or sell (i) any debt or equity securities that are convertible into, exchangeable or exercisable for additional shares of common stock either (1) at a conversion, exercise or exchange rate or other price that is based upon and/or varies with the trading prices of or quotations for the shares of common stock at any time after the initial issuance of such debt or equity securities, or (2) with a conversion, exercise or exchange price that is subject to being reset at some future date after the initial issuance of such debt or equity security or upon the occurrence of specified or contingent events directly or indirectly related to the business or the market for common stock; or (ii) enter into any equity line of credit. A breach of these covenants could result in the Variable Rate Secured Convertible Debentures and 9% Secured Convertible Debentures due March 19, 2012 becoming immediately due and payable. Additionally, these covenants could limit flexibility in raising additional capital in the future which could limit the ability to implement business strategies. There is no assurance that the Company can successfully implement the business plan that calls for the acquisition of additional entertainment software titles and businesses to create a larger presence in the marketplace. We have engaged in, evaluated, and expect to continue to engage in and evaluate, a wide array of potential strategic transactions, including (i) acquisitions of companies, businesses, intellectual properties, and other assets, (ii) minority investments in strategic partners, and (iii) investments in new interactive entertainment businesses. Any of these strategic transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. Although we are regularly searching for opportunities to engage in strategic transactions, we may not be successful in identifying suitable opportunities or may not be able to consummate potential acquisitions or investments. Also an acquisition or investment may not enhance our business or may decrease rather than increase our earnings. If we are unable to successfully integrate acquisitions, revenue growth and future profitability may be negatively impacted. The process of integrating an acquired business, technology or product may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and may absorb significant management attention and capital that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of the business. In addition, the levels of operating efficiency that any company which was acquired achieved or might have achieved separately may not be able to be maintained. Additional risks faced include: • the need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company in an acquired company that, prior to the acquisition, lacked these controls, procedures and policies; • cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from an acquired company or business into the organization; • retaining key employees from the businesses acquired; • the need to integrate an acquired company’s accounting, management information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management; and 12 • to the extent that engaging in strategic transactions outside of the United States, and facing additional risks, including risks related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. Future acquisitions and investments could involve the issuance of equity securities, potentially diluting existing shareholders, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, write-offs of goodwill, intangibles, or acquired in-process technology, or other increased expenses, any of which could harm financial conditions. Shareholders may not have the opportunity to review, vote on or evaluate future acquisitions or investments. Since a significant amount of assets are denominated in foreign currency and business is conducted internationally, we are subject to currency and foreign regulatory risks. Strategy First is incorporated in Canada and sells products throughout the United States and Europe. Its functional currency is the Canadian Dollar. This has exposed the company to market risk with respect to fluctuations in the relative value of the Euro, British Pound, the Canadian Dollar, and the US Dollar. Empire PLC is incorporated in the United Kingdom and sells products throughout Europe and the United States. Its functional currency is the British Pound. This has exposed us to market risk with respect to fluctuations in the relative value of the Euro, British Pound and the US Dollar. Certain of our cash balances and the remaining proceeds from the sale of our South African subsidiaries are denominated in South African Rand. This has exposed us to market risk with respect to fluctuations in the relative value of the South African Rand against the US Dollar. We expect to repatriate funds held in South Africa to the United States. Repatriation of the full amount is allowable under current South African foreign currency regulations. Over the last eight years, we have, from time to time, repatriated funds from South Africa without restriction. However, there can be no guarantee that the South African foreign currency regulations will not change in the future in a manner that might restrict the ability to repatriate the remaining assets. Currently we are disputing a tax liability with the South African revenue service and may be forced to expense additional amounts in this matter. In April 2006, one of our subsidiaries, First South African Holdings, received a letter from the South African Revenue Service (“SARS”) challenging certain tax treatment of dividends and operating loss carry forward for the years 2002 through 2004. In May, 2007, we reached an agreement with SARS whereby SARS agreed in principle to drop the larger of its two assessments. We conceded the principle of SARS second assessment. On August 31, 2007, we paid approximately $300,000 to SARS in regard to this assessment. We are vigorously disputing a further amount of approximately $770,000 and believes it has strong arguments in this regard based on, among other factors, computational errors made by SARS in its assessment. In April 2007 we brought a request seeking a court order to dismiss SARS’ claims in this regard. A ruling on this request should be made within the next few months. Based on its payments to SARS, we have reduced our estimated liability to approximately $280,000. We believe our remaining liability to SARS is lower than this amount; however, in the event our arguments are unsuccessful, we may be forced to increase this liability. We depend on the continued services of key personnel. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our executive officers, some of whom are also principal shareholders, and the continued contributions of the management of the operating subsidiaries. Business could be adversely affected by the loss of services of or a material reduction in the amount of time devoted by our executive officers or the executive officers of the subsidiaries. We do not carry key man insurance. 13 RISKS RELATING TO THE COMPANY’S COMMON STOCK We may not be able to comply with NASDAQ listing requirements, which could result in our common stock being delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market. On June 27, 2008, we received a letter from the Nasdaq Stock Market stating that we failed to comply with the minimum bid price requirement for continued listing set forth in Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(4) because for 30 consecutive business days the bid price of our common stock closed below the minimum $1.00 bid requirement. The letter stated that we will be provided 180 calendar days, or until December 24, 2008, to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. Compliance would be regained if at any time prior to December 24, 2008 the bid price of our common stock closes at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days. There can be no assurance that we will regain compliance with the listing requirement. If we have not achieved compliance by the 180th day, but can demonstrate as of that date we meet the criteria for initial listing, we will have an additional 180 days to achieve compliance. As a result, our stock may be delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market, which could have a negative effect on the price of our common stock, as well as on our ability to raise additional funds. Our common stock may become subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules. If our common stock is excluded from NASDAQ and the price per share of the common stock is below $5.00, the securities would become subject to certain “penny stock” rules promulgated by the SEC unless we satisfy certain net asset and revenue tests. The application of these rules to our common stock may adversely impact both the ability to resell our common stock (liquidity) and the market price of these shares. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document prepared by the SEC that provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction, and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from such rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination of suitability of the investor purchasing the penny stock. The price of common stock is highly volatile. Fluctuations in the market price of the common stock may be a result of any number of factors or a combination of factors including, but not limited to: • the number of shares in the market and the number of shares which may be required to issue in the future compared to the market demand for the shares; • performance and meeting expectations of performance, including the development and commercialization of current and proposed products and services; • market conditions for internet and media companies in the small capitalization sector; and • general economic and market conditions. 14 Since we do not intend to declare dividends in the foreseeable future, the return on investment will depend upon the appreciation of the market price of the shares. We have never paid dividends on our common stock. The board of directors does not intend to declare any dividends in the foreseeable future, but intends to retain all earnings, if any, for use in our business operations. As a result, the return on investment will depend upon any appreciation in the market price of our common stock. The holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends when, and if declared by the board of directors out of funds legally available for dividend payments. The payment of dividends, if any, in the future is within the discretion of the board of directors and will depend upon earnings, capital requirements and financial condition, and other relevant factors. Anti-takeover measures in the Bye-laws could adversely affect the voting power of the holders of the common stock. Our Bye-laws authorize the issuance of up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by the board of directors. Accordingly, the board of directors is empowered, without shareholder approval, but subject to applicable government regulatory restrictions, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights which could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of common stock. In the event of issuance, the preferred stock could be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control. Although we have no present intention to issue any shares of the preferred stock, this cannot be assured to not do so in the future. The rights of shareholders under Bermuda law may not be as extensive as the rights of shareholders under the laws of jurisdictions in the United States. The corporate affairs are governed by the Memorandum of Association and Bye-laws, as well as the common law of Bermuda relating to companies and the Companies Act 1981. The Bye-laws limit the right of security holders to bring an action against the officers and directors. The laws of Bermuda relating to shareholder rights, protection of minorities, fiduciary duties of directors and officers, matters of corporate governance, corporate restructuring, mergers and similar arrangements, takeovers, shareholder suits, indemnification of directors and inspection of corporate records, may differ from those that would apply if we were incorporated in a jurisdiction within the United States. The rights of shareholders in a Bermuda company may not be as extensive as the rights of a shareholder of a United States company and, accordingly, the holders of shares of common stock may be more limited in their ability to protect their interests in us. In addition, there is uncertainty whether the courts of Bermuda would enforce judgments of the courts of the United States and of other foreign jurisdictions. There is also uncertainty whether the courts of Bermuda would enforce actions brought in Bermuda which are predicated upon the securities laws of the United States. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and the Nasdaq Marketplace rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, we might be subject to sanctions or investigations by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC or The NASDAQ Stock Market, and our reputation may be harmed. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our common stock. 15 