Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to many risks and uncertainties, which may affect our future financial performance. If any of the events or circumstances described below occurs, our business and financial performance could be harmed, our actual results could differ materially from our expectations and the market value of our securities could decline. The risks and uncertainties discussed below are not the only ones we face. There may be additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material that may harm our business and financial performance. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR STRATEGY FIRST SUBSIDIARY MANY OF OUR TITLES HAVE SHORT LIFECYCLES AND FAIL TO GENERATE SIGNIFICANT REVENUES. The market for entertainment software is characterized by short product lifecycles and frequent introduction of new products. Many software titles do not achieve sustained market acceptance or do not generate a sufficient level of sales to offset the costs associated with product development. A significant percentage of the sales of new titles generally occurs within the first three months following their release. Therefore, our continued profitability depends upon our ability to acquire and sell new, commercially successful titles and to replace revenues from titles in the later stages of their lifecycles. Any competitive, financial, technological or other factor which delays or impairs our ability to introduce and sell our software could adversely affect our future operating results. 4 WE MAY FAIL TO ANTICIPATE CHANGING CONSUMER PREFERENCES. Our business is speculative and is subject to all of the risks generally associated with the entertainment software industry, which has been cyclical in nature and has been characterized by periods of significant growth followed by rapid declines. Our future operating results will depend on numerous factors beyond our control, including: • the popularity, price and timing of new software and hardware platforms being released and distributed by us and our competitors; • international, national and regional economic conditions, particularly economic conditions adversely affecting discretionary consumer spending; • changes in consumer demographics; • the availability of other forms of entertainment; and • critical reviews and public tastes and preferences, all of which change rapidly and cannot be predicted. In order to plan for acquisition and promotional activities, we must anticipate and respond to rapid changes in consumer tastes and preferences. A decline in the popularity of entertainment software or particular platforms could cause sales of our titles to decline dramatically. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO PROTECT OUR PROPRIETARY RIGHTS. We acquire proprietary software and technologies. We attempt to protect our software and production related intellectual property under copyright, trademark and trade secret laws as well as through contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and distribution. Entertainment software is susceptible to unauthorized copying. Unauthorized third parties may be able to copy or to reverse engineer our software to obtain and use programming or production techniques that we regard as proprietary. In addition, our competitors could independently develop technologies substantially equivalent or superior to our technologies. WE MAY BE SUBJECT TO INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY CLAIMS. As the number of entertainment software products increases and the features and content of these products continue to overlap, software developers increasingly may become subject to infringement claims. Many of our products are highly realistic and feature materials that are based on real world examples, which may inadvertently infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. Our products often utilize complex technology that may become subject to the intellectual property rights of others. Although we believe that we make reasonable efforts to ensure that our products do not violate the intellectual property rights of others, it is possible that third-parties still may claim infringement. From time to time, we receive communications from third-parties regarding such claims. Existing or future infringement claims against us, whether valid or not, may be time consuming and expensive to defend. Intellectual property litigation or claims could force us to do one or more of the following: • cease selling, incorporating or using products or services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property, which if available at all, may not be available on commercially favorable terms; or 5 • redesign the effected entertainment software products, which could cause us to incur additional costs, delay introduction and possibly reduce commercial appeal of our products. Any of these actions may cause material harm to our business and financial results. RATING SYSTEMS FOR ENTERTAINMENT SOFTWARE, POTENTIAL LEGISLATION AND CONSUMER OPPOSITION COULD INHIBIT SALES OF OUR PRODUCTS. The home video game industry requires entertainment software publishers to provide consumers with information relating to graphic violence or sexually explicit material contained in software titles. Certain countries have also established similar rating systems as prerequisites for sales of entertainment software in such countries. We believe that we comply with such rating systems and display the ratings received for our titles. Our software titles generally receive a rating of “G” (all ages) or “T” (age 13 and over), although certain of our titles receive a rating of “M” (age 18 and over), which may limit the potential markets for these titles. Several proposals have been made for federal legislation to regulate the entertainment software, motion picture and recording industries, including a proposal to adopt a common rating system for entertainment software, television and music containing violence and sexually explicit material and an inquiry by the Federal Trade Commission with respect to the marketing of such material to minors. Consumer advocacy groups have also opposed sales of entertainment software containing graphic violence and sexually explicit material by pressing for legislation in these areas and by engaging in public demonstrations and media campaigns. If any groups were to target our titles, we might be required to significantly change or discontinue a particular title. WE ARE EXPOSED TO SEASONALITY IN THE PURCHASES OF OUR PRODUCTS. The entertainment software industry is highly seasonal, with the highest levels of consumer demand occurring during the year end holiday buying season. As a result, our net revenues, gross profits and operating income have historically been highest during the second half of the calendar year. Delays in development, licensor approvals or manufacturing can also affect the timing of the release of our products, causing us to miss key selling periods such as the year end holiday buying season. WE OPERATE IN A HIGHLY COMPETITIVE INDUSTRY. The entertainment software industry is intensely competitive and new entertainment software products and platforms are regularly introduced. Our competitors vary in size from small companies with limited resources to very large corporations with significantly greater financial, marketing and product development resources than we have. Due to these greater resources, certain of our competitors can spend more money and time on developing and testing products, undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies, pay higher fees to licensors for desirable motion picture, television, sports and character properties and pay more to third-party software developers than we can. We believe that the main competitive factors in the entertainment software industry include: product features and playability; brand name recognition; compatibility of products with popular platforms; access to distribution channels; quality of products; ease of use; price; marketing support; and quality of customer service. IF OUR PRODUCTS CONTAIN DEFECTS, OUR BUSINESS COULD BE HARMED SIGNIFICANTLY. Software products as complex as the ones we publish may contain undetected errors when first introduced or when new versions are released. Despite extensive testing prior to release, we cannot be certain that errors will not be found in new products or releases after shipment, that could result in loss of or delay in market acceptance. This loss or delay could significantly harm our business and financial results. 6 WE RELY ON INDEPENDENT THIRD PARTIES TO DEVELOP MOST OF OUR SOFTWARE PRODUCTS. We rely on independent third-party entertainment software developers to develop most of our software products. Since we depend on these developers we remain subject to the following risks • continuing strong demand for developers’ resources, combined with the recognition they receive in connection with their work, may cause developers who worked for us in the past either to work for our competitors in the future or to renegotiate our agreements with them on terms less favorable for us; • limited financial resources and business expertise and inability to retain skilled personnel may force developers out of business prior to completing our products or require us to fund additional costs; and • our competitors may acquire the businesses of key developers or sign them to exclusive development arrangements. In either case, we would not be able to continue to engage such developers’ services for our products, except for those that they are contractually obligated to complete for us. We also compete with other forms of entertainment and leisure activities. For example, we believe that the overall growth in the use of the Internet and online services by consumers may pose a competitive threat if customers and potential customers spend less of their available time using entertainment software and more using the Internet and online services. THE RETAIL MARKET FOR PC GAME SOFTWARE IS DECREASING WHICH COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE IMPACT ON OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION. The changing characteristics of the worldwide consumer entertainment software market in recent years have been impacted by many factors, such as: • an increasing number of technologically advanced PCs with more powerful operating systems, enhanced graphics and video cards, expanded memory chips, as well as higher capacities and faster speeds for CD and hard drives in the home and office; • greater access by consumers to the Internet through high-speed access modes (such as cable modems and DSL connections); • increased interest in online game play; • the increasing number of game console devices in the home; and • the development of increasingly advanced technologies supporting game play (such as hand held game devices, mobile phones and personal digital assistants). As a result of this increased competition in the overall consumer entertainment market, market data suggests that the retail market for PC game software has decreased over the past two years. If this trend continues it could have an adverse impact on our financial condition. 7 THE PC SOFTWARE GAME MARKET HAS GRAVITATED TOWARDS MASS MERCHANT RETAILERS. The North American PC software game market has gravitated toward mass merchant retailers thereby increasing the competition for shelf space for PC games. This increased competition has emphasized the importance of marketing, merchandising and brand name recognition. A significant result of these market pressures is an industry trend toward the consolidation of consumer entertainment PC software publishers and distributors, in addition to the diversification of products offered by these companies. The trends toward industry consolidation and increased competition for game content and retail shelf space are more pronounced in North America than in international markets and are expected to continue for the foreseeable future. WE MAY FACE DIFFICULTY OBTAINING ACCESS TO RETAIL SHELF SPACE NECESSARY TO MARKET AND SELL OUR PRODUCTS EFFECTIVELY. Retailers of our products typically have a limited amount of shelf space and promotional resources, and there is intense competition among consumer entertainment software products for high quality retail shelf space and promotional support from retailers. To the extent that the number of products and platforms increases, competition for shelf space may intensify and may require us to increase our marketing expenditures. Retailers with limited shelf space typically devote the most and highest quality shelf space to those products expected to be best sellers. We cannot be certain that our new products will achieve such “best seller” status. Due to increased competition for limited shelf space, retailers and distributors are in an increasingly better position to negotiate favorable terms of sale, including price discounts, price protection, marketing and display fees and product return policies. Our products constitute a relatively small percentage of any retailer’s sales volume. We cannot be certain that retailers will continue to purchase our products or to provide our products with adequate levels of shelf space and promotional support on acceptable terms. A prolonged failure in this regard may significantly harm our business and financial results. WE MAY PERMIT OUR CUSTOMERS TO RETURN OUR PRODUCTS AND TO RECEIVE PRICING CONCESSIONS WHICH COULD REDUCE OUR NET REVENUES AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. We are exposed to the risk of product returns and price protection with respect to our distributors and retailers. Return policies allow distributors and retailers to return defective, shelf-worn and damaged products in accordance with terms granted. Price protection, when granted and applicable, allows customers a credit against amounts they owe us with respect to merchandise unsold by them. We may permit product returns from, or grant price protection to, our customers under certain conditions. The conditions our customers must meet to be granted the right to return products or price protection are, among other things, compliance with applicable payment terms, delivery to us of weekly inventory and sell-through reports, and consistent participation in the launches of our premium title releases. We may also consider other factors, including the facilitation of slow-moving inventory and other market factors. When we offer price protection, we offer it with respect to a particular product to all of our retail customers; however, only those customers who meet the conditions detailed above can avail themselves of such price protection. Although we maintain a reserve for returns and price protection, and although we may place limits on product returns and price protection, we could be forced to accept substantial product returns and provide substantial price protection to maintain our relationships with retailers and our access to distribution channels. Product returns and price protection that exceed our reserves could significantly harm our business and financial results. TECHNOLOGY CHANGES RAPIDLY IN OUR BUSINESS, AND IF WE FAIL TO ANTICIPATE OR SUCCESSFULLY IMPLEMENT NEW TECHNOLOGIES, THE QUALITY, TIMELINESS AND COMPETITIVENESS OF OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES WILL SUFFER Rapid technology changes in our industry require us to anticipate, sometimes years in advance, which technologies we must implement and take advantage of in order to make our products and services competitive in the market. Therefore, we usually start our product development with a range of technical development goals that we hope to be able to achieve. We may not be able to achieve these goals, or 8 our competition may be able to achieve them more quickly than we can. In either case, our products and services may be technologically inferior to our competitors’, less appealing to consumers, or both. If we cannot achieve our technology goals within the original development schedule of our products and services, then we may delay their release until these technology goals can be achieved, which may delay or reduce revenue and increase our development expenses. Alternatively, we may increase the resources employed in research and development in an attempt to accelerate our development of new technologies, either to preserve our product or service launch schedule or to keep up with our competition, which would increase our development expenses. RISK ASSOCIATED WITH OUR OPERATIONS THERE IS NO ASSURANCE THAT WE CAN SUCCESSFULLY IMPLEMENT OUR BUSINESS PLAN THAT CALLS FOR THE ACQUISITION OF ADDITIONAL ENTERTAINMENT SOFTWARE BUSINESSES TO CREATE A LARGER PRESENCE IN THE MARKET PLACE. We seek to acquire complimentary businesses in the entertainment software market. The success of our business plan is predicated on us finding appropriate acquisitions and growing their operations. There is no assurance that we will be able to access such companies or to complete their acquisition. Furthermore, there is no assurance that our current financial resources will be sufficient to achieve the goals of our business plan. There is no assurance that we will be able to raise additional capital if the need arises. AS A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF OUR ASSETS ARE DENOMINATED IN FOREIGN CURRENCY AND WE CONDUCT BUSINESS INTERNATIONALLY, WE ARE SUBJECT TO CURRENCY AND FOREIGN REGULATORY RISKS Strategy First is incorporated in Canada and sells products throughout the United States and Europe. Its functional currency is the Canadian Dollar. This has exposed the company to market risk with respect to fluctuations in the relative value of the Euro, British Pound, the Canadian Dollar, and the US Dollar. Certain of the Company’s cash balances and the remaining proceeds from the sale of its South African subsidiaries are denominated in South African Rand. This has exposed the Company to market risk with respect to fluctuations in the relative value of the South African Rand against the US Dollar. We expect to repatriate our funds held in South Africa to the United States. We believe that repatriation of the full amount is allowable under current South African foreign currency regulations. Over the last eight years, we have, from time to time, repatriated funds from South Africa without restriction. However, there can be no guarantee that the South African foreign currency regulations will not change in the future in a manner that might restrict our ability to repatriate the remaining assets. WE CURRENTLY ARE DISPUTING A TAX LIABILITY WITH THE SOUTH AFRICAN REVENUE SERVICE AND WE MAY BE FORCED TO EXPENSE ADDITIONAL AMOUNTS IN THIS MATTER. In April 2006, our First South African subsidiary received a letter from the South African Revenue Service (“SARS”) challenging certain tax treatment of dividends and operating loss carry forwards for the years 2002 through 2004. Subsequently SARS issued a tax assessment for approximately $2.7 million. The Company believes that its South African tax filings are in full compliance with all applicable laws and is vigorously defending its position in this regard. However, until such time as these issues are resolved, the Company will retain an amount equal to the assessment in South Africa to cover any potential liability that may arise. The Company has recorded an estimated liability of $600,000 in this regard but may be forced to increase this amount should it receive adverse information as it continues its appeal of the SARS assessment. 9 SINCE WE DO NOT INTEND TO DECLARE DIVIDENDS IN THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE, THE RETURN ON YOUR INVESTMENT WILL DEPEND UPON APPRECIATION OF THE MARKET PRICE OF YOUR SHARES. We have never paid any dividends on our common stock. Our board of directors does not intend to declare any dividends in the foreseeable future, but intends to retain all earnings, if any, for use in our business operations. As a result, the return on your investment in us will depend upon any appreciation in the market price of our common stock. The holders of common stock are entitled to receive dividends when, as and if declared by the board of directors out of funds legally available for dividend payments. The payment of dividends, if any, in the future is within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon our earnings, capital requirements and financial condition, and other relevant factors. SILVERSTAR AND ITS OPERATING SUBSIDIARIES DEPEND ON THE CONTINUED SERVICES OF KEY PERSONNEL. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our executive officers, some of whom are also our principal shareholders, and the continued contributions of the management of our operating subsidiaries. Our business could be adversely affected by the loss of services of, or a material reduction in the amount of time devoted to us by our executive officers or the executive officers of our subsidiary. We do not carry key man insurance. RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON STOCK THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK IS HIGHLY VOLATILE. The price of our common stock is highly volatile. Fluctuations in the market price of our common stock may be a result of any number of factors or a combination of factors including, but not limited to: • the number of shares in the market and the number of shares we may be required to issue in the future compared to market demand for our shares; • our performance and meeting expectations of performance, including the development and commercialization of our current and proposed products and services; • market conditions for internet and media companies in the small capitalization sector; and • general economic and market conditions. OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS, DIRECTORS AND PRINCIPAL STOCKHOLDERS TOGETHER, MAY EXERCISE CONTROL OVER ALL MATTERS SUBMITTED TO A VOTE OF STOCKHOLDERS. Our executive officers, directors own 1,119,818 shares of our Class A common stock and 780,137 shares of our Class B common stock, representing approximately 21% of our outstanding capital stock and approximately 42% of the total voting power and are able to elect all of the our directors and otherwise control our operations. Furthermore, the disproportionate vote afforded the Class B common stock could also serve to impede or prevent a change of control. As a result, potential acquirees may be discouraged from seeking to acquire control through the purchase of our common stock, which could have a depressive effect on the price of our securities and will make it less likely that shareholders receive a premium for their shares as a result of any such attempt. 10 ANTI-TAKEOVER MEASURES IN OUR MEMORANDUM OF ASSOCIATION COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE VOTING POWER OF THE HOLDERS OF OUR COMMON STOCK. Our Memorandum of Association authorizes the issuance of up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our board of directors. Accordingly, our board of directors is empowered, without shareholder approval, but subject to applicable government regulatory restrictions, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights which could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of our common stock. In the event of issuance, the preferred stock could be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of us. Although we have no present intention to issue any shares of our preferred stock, we cannot assure we will not do so in the future. THE RIGHTS OF STOCKHOLDERS UNDER BERMUDA LAW MAY NOT BE AS EXTENSIVE AS THE RIGHTS OF STOCKHOLDERS UNDER THE LAWS OF JURISDICTIONS IN THE UNITED STATES. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Memorandum of Association and by-laws, as well as the common law of Bermuda relating to companies and the Companies Act 1981. Our by-laws limit the right of security holders to bring an action against our officers and directors. The laws of Bermuda relating to shareholder rights, protection of minorities, fiduciary duties of directors and officers, matters of corporate governance, corporate restructuring, mergers and similar arrangements, takeovers, shareholder suits, indemnification of directors and inspection of corporate records, may differ from those that would apply if we were incorporated in a jurisdiction within the United States. The rights of shareholders in a Bermuda company may not be as extensive as the rights of a shareholder of a United States company and, accordingly, the holders of our shares of common stock may be more limited in their ability to protect their interests in us. In addition, there is uncertainty whether the courts of Bermuda would enforce judgments of the courts of the United States and of other foreign jurisdictions. There is also uncertainty whether the courts of Bermuda would enforce actions brought in Bermuda which are predicated upon the securities laws of the United States. OUR COMMON STOCK MAY BE DELISTED FROM NASDAQ The National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. has established certain standards for the continued listing of a security on the NASDAQ Capital Market. The standards for continued listing require, among other things, that the minimum bid price for the listed securities be at least $1.00 per share. A deficiency in the bid price maintenance standard will be deemed to exist if the issuer fails the individual stated requirement for thirty consecutive trading days, with a 180-day cure period with respect to the NASDAQ Capital Market. During November and December 2004 and March 2005 our common stock traded below a price of $1.00 per share. There can be no assurance that we will continue to satisfy the requirements for maintaining a NASDAQ Capital Market listing. If our common stock were to be excluded from NASDAQ, the market price of our common stock and the ability of holders to sell such stock would be adversely affected, and we would be required to comply with the initial listing requirements to be relisted on NASDAQ. OUR COMMON STOCK MAY BECOME SUBJECT TO THE SEC’S PENNY STOCK RULES If our common stock is excluded from NASDAQ and the price per share of our common stock is below $5.00, our securities would become subject to certain “penny stock” rules promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission unless we satisfy certain net asset and revenue tests. The application of these rules to our common stock may adversely impact both your ability to resell our common stock (liquidity) and the market price of these shares. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document prepared by the Securities and Exchange Commission that provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction, and monthly account statements showing the 11 market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from such rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination of suitability of the investor purchasing the penny stock. 