RISK FACTORS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements regarding our expected future financial position, results of operations, cash flows, financing plans, business strategy, competitive position, plans and objectives and words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “plan” and other similar expressions are forward-looking statements. Such forward looking statements are inherently uncertain, and holders of our securities must recognize that actual results could differ materially from those projected or contemplated in the forward-looking statements as a result of a variety of factors, including the factors set forth below. Holders of our securities should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which the statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. In addition, we cannot assess the effect of each factor on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO EFFECTIVELY MANAGE OUR INTERNAL GROWTH. We intend to increase our thermal products and software businesses overseas, expand the products and services we offer, and possibly make selective acquisitions as the economy improves. This growth and expansion may place a significant strain on our production, technical, financial and other management resources. To manage any growth effectively, we must maintain a high level of manufacturing quality, efficiency, delivery and performance and must continue to enhance our operational, financial and management systems, and attract, train, motivate and manage our employees. We may not be able to effectively manage this expansion, and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY FLUCTUATE SIGNIFICANTLY. Our quarterly and annual operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors, many of which are outside our control, that have in the past and could in the future materially and adversely affect our net sales, gross margins and profitability. These factors include: - the volume and timing of orders received; - competitive pricing pressures; - the availability and cost of raw materials; 12 Table of Contents - changes in the mix of products and services sold; - potential cancellation or rescheduling of orders; - general economic conditions; - changes in the level of customer inventories of our products; - the timing of new product and manufacturing process technology introductions by us or our competitors; - the availability of manufacturing capacity; and - market acceptance of new or enhanced products introduced by us. Additionally, our growth and results of operations have in the past been, are currently being and would in the future be, adversely affected by downturns in the semiconductor or electronics industries. Our ability to reduce costs quickly in response to revenue shortfalls is limited, and this limitation will be exacerbated to the extent we continue to add additional manufacturing capacity. The need for continued investment in research and development could also limit our ability to reduce expenses accordingly. As a result of these factors, we expect our operating results to continue to fluctuate. Results of operations in any one quarter should not be considered indicative of results to be expected for any future period, and fluctuations in operating results may also cause fluctuations in the market price of the senior subordinated notes. We cannot provide assurance that the overall thermal management market, or the segments of the market served by us, will continue to grow in the future. See “Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” OUR BUSINESS IS DEPENDENT ON THE SEMICONDUCTOR MARKET. A significant portion of our net sales has been, and is expected to continue to be, dependent upon sales of thermal management products for industrial electronics applications, consisting primarily of integrated circuits, and for computer and networking applications, consisting primarily of microprocessors and related chip sets. The thermal management market for computer and networking applications is characterized by rapid technological change, short product life cycles, greater pricing pressure and increasing foreign and domestic competition as compared to the thermal management market for industrial electronics applications. Future growth will, to a significant extent, depend upon increased demand for semiconductor devices and products that require thermal solutions. The semiconductor industry (both computer and networking and industrial) has historically been cyclical and subject to significant economic downturns characterized by diminished product demand and eroding average selling prices. A decrease in demand for semiconductor products would reduce demand for our products and have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Further, in developing and designing new products, semiconductor manufacturers and their customers typically seek to eliminate or minimize thermal problems, and such efforts could have the effect of reducing or eliminating demand for certain of our products. Additionally, we believe that many of our OEM customers compete in intensely competitive markets characterized by declining prices and low margins. These OEMs apply continued pricing pressure on their component suppliers, including us. We cannot provide assurance that we will not be adversely affected by cyclical conditions in the semiconductor and electronics industries. 13 Table of Contents CHANGES IN THE AVAILABILITY OR PRICE OF ALUMINUM AND COPPER CAN SIGNIFICANTLY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Aluminum and copper are the principal raw materials used in our products and they represent a significant portion of our cost of goods sold. We purchase copper bar, copper coil, aluminum extrusion, aluminum coil and various components from a limited number of outside sources. During the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, we purchased a significant portion of our aluminum and copper coil stock from one or two suppliers in each major commodity grouping regionally. We believe that purchasing copper bar, copper coil, aluminum extrusion and aluminum coil stock from a limited number of suppliers is necessary in order to obtain lower prices and to achieve, consistently, the tolerances and design and delivery flexibility that we require. If the available supply of copper or aluminum declines, or if one or more of our current suppliers is unable for any reason to meet our requirements, is acquired by a competitor or decides to compete with us, we could experience cost increases, a deterioration of service from our suppliers, or interruptions, delays or a reduction in raw material supply that may cause us to fail to meet delivery schedules to customers. Although we believe that viable alternate suppliers exist for the copper and aluminum coil stock and components, any unanticipated interruption of supply would have a short-term material adverse effect on us. In addition, our ability to pass price increases for copper, aluminum or other raw materials along to our customers may be limited by competitive pressures, customer resistance and price adjustment limitations in our product purchase contracts with our customers. Even if we are able to pass along all or a portion of raw material price increases, there is typically a lag of three to twelve months between the actual cost increase of raw material and the corresponding increase in the prices of our products. We cannot provide assurance that in the future we will be able to recover increased aluminum or other raw material costs through higher prices to our customers. Market prices for raw aluminum and copper, which have historically been cyclical and highly volatile, have a significant effect on our gross margin. An increase in the market price for copper and aluminum could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations and business. See “Our operating results may fluctuate significantly.” WE SUPPLY PRODUCTS AND SERVICES TO INDUSTRIES THAT EXPERIENCE RAPID TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE, WHICH MAY MAKE OUR PRODUCTS OBSOLETE. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, frequent new product introductions and enhancements and rapid product obsolescence. Our future success will be highly dependent upon our ability to continually enhance or develop new thermal and software products, materials, manufacturing processes and services in order to keep pace with the technological advancements of our customers and their corresponding increasingly complex thermal management and computational fluid dynamics software needs. We may not be able to identify new product trends or opportunities, develop and bring to market new products or respond effectively to new technological changes or product announcements by others, develop or obtain access to advanced materials, or achieve commercial acceptance of our products. In addition, other companies, including our customers, may develop products or technologies which render our products or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete. 14 Table of Contents WE FACE INTENSE COMPETITION, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO MAINTAIN OR INCREASE SALES OF OUR PRODUCTS. The markets for thermal management products and computational fluid dynamics software are highly competitive. Certain of our competitors, which include divisions or subsidiaries of large companies, may have greater technical, financial, research and development and marketing resources than we do. Further, we expect that as the trend toward outsourcing continues, a number of new competitors may emerge, some of which may have greater technical, financial, research and development and marketing resources than we do. Our ability to compete successfully depends upon a number of factors, including price, customer acceptance of our products, cost effective high-volume manufacturing, proximity to customers, lead times, ease of installation of our products, new product and manufacturing process technology introductions by us and our competitors, access to new technologies and general market and economic conditions. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or potential competitors, or that our operating results will not be adversely affected by increased price competition. In addition, our customers for thermal management and software products may manufacture or develop such products internally or actively support new entrants into our market rather than purchase thermal products or license software products from us. Further, many of our customers like to maintain dual sources for thermal management products. OUR BUSINESS EXPERIENCES SEASONAL VARIATIONS. Our CFD software business has experienced and is expected to continue to experience significant seasonality due to, among other things, the second and third quarter slowdown in software billings primarily due to the purchasing and budgeting patterns of Fluent’s software customers. In addition, our thermal management business has experienced slight seasonal variations due to the slowdown during the third quarter’s summer months which historically has occurred in the electronics industry. Typically, our billings are lowest during the second and third quarters of the fiscal year, which ends in December. WE DEPEND ON KEY PERSONNEL AND SKILLED EMPLOYEES WHO MAY NOT REMAIN WITH US IN THE FUTURE. Our success depends to a large extent upon the continued services of our senior management and technical personnel. Our business also depends upon our ability to retain skilled and semi-skilled employees. There is intense competition for qualified management and skilled and semi-skilled employees and our failure to recruit, train and retain such employees could adversely affect our business. OUR INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS EXPOSE US TO ADDITIONAL RISKS. We currently have multiple international manufacturing locations to better service our customers, many of whom have moved their manufacturing operations and expanded their business overseas. International operations are subject to a number of risks, including: - greater difficulties in controlling and administering business; - less familiarity with business customs and practices; - increased reliance on key local personnel; - the imposition of tariffs and import and export controls; - changes in governmental policies (including U.S. policy toward these countries); 15 Table of Contents - difficulties caused by language barriers; - increased difficulty in collecting receivables; - availability of, and time required for, the transportation of products to and from foreign countries; - political instability; - foreign currency fluctuations; and - expropriation and nationalization. The occurrence of any of these or other factors may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and could have an adverse effect on our relationships with our customers. Furthermore, the occurrence of certain of these factors in countries in which we operate could result in the impairment or loss of our investment in such countries. The trend by our customers to move manufacturing operations and expand their business overseas may have an adverse impact on our sales of domestically manufactured products. A part of our net sales is currently derived from products manufactured at our manufacturing facility in Guang Dong Province in The People’s Republic of China. We commenced manufacturing at this facility in early 1998 and currently maintain approximately 140,000 square feet of manufacturing space. Because of language and cultural differences, managing operations in China can be difficult, and although we have focused significant management resources on this operation, we cannot provide assurance that this business will continue to be successful. An inability to successfully manage this business or an interruption in the operations at this facility could have a material adverse effect on our overall financial performance until we are able to obtain substitute production capability with similar low operating costs. We have additional manufacturing facilities in North America and Europe. Prior to 2005, the Chinese Yuan had a fixed rate of exchange against the U.S. dollar. In 2005, the People’s Republic of China began the process of allowing the Yuan’s exchange rate to fluctuate based on market conditions. To date, these fluctuations have been relatively small in magnitude and have been managed closely by the Chinese government. Should China allow the value of the Yuan to float more freely, it is possible that this change could negatively impact our operation in China by making it more expensive for us to do business there. A significant revaluation of the Yuan could also result in foreign currency exchange gains or losses within our statement of operations in 2006 or future periods. It is impossible, based on current facts or circumstances, to estimate the impact on our business in 2006 or future periods of a revaluation of the Chinese Yuan. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO PROTECT OUR PROPRIETARY TECHNOLOGY. Our success depends in part on our proprietary technology. We attempt to protect our proprietary technology through patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and license agreements. We believe, however, that our success will depend to a greater extent upon innovation, technological expertise and distribution strength. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to protect our technology, or that our competitors will not be able to develop similar technology independently. We cannot provide assurance that the claims allowed on any patents held by us will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, no assurance can be given that any patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that the rights granted thereunder will provide competitive advantages to us. In addition, effective patent, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries in which we conduct business. Although we believe that our products and technology do not infringe upon proprietary rights of others, there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims in the future. Moreover, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our patents, copyrights and other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents WE ARE SUBJECT TO EXTENSIVE ENVIRONMENTAL AND OTHER REGULATIONS. We are subject to a variety of United States and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to the use, storage, treatment, discharge and disposal of hazardous materials, substances and wastes used to manufacture our products and remediation of soil and groundwater contamination. Public attention has increasingly been focused on the environmental impact of operations that use hazardous materials. Some of the environmental laws impose strict, and in certain cases joint and several, liability for response costs at contaminated properties on their owners or operators, or on persons who arranged for the disposal of regulated materials at these properties. Our operations are also governed by laws and regulations relating to workplace safety and worker health, principally the Occupational Safety and Health Act and regulations thereunder which, among other requirements, establish noise and dust standards. We believe we are in material compliance with applicable environmental, health and safety requirements. Our failure to comply with present or future laws or regulations could result in substantial liability to us. We cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of legislation or regulatory requirements that could be imposed or how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted with respect to products or activities to which they have not previously applied. Enactment of more stringent laws or regulations, as well as more vigorous enforcement policies of regulatory agencies or discovery of previously unknown conditions requiring remediation, could require substantial expenditures by us and could adversely affect our results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDEBTEDNESS OUR SUBSTANTIAL DEBT COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND PREVENT US FROM FULFILLING OUR OBLIGATIONS UNDER THE SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES. We have a substantial amount of debt. The following chart shows certain important credit statistics: AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2005 (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS) Total debt (including current portion) $ 135,391 Stockholders’ deficit (61,285 ) Debt to stockholders’ equity N/A Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to holders of our senior subordinated notes. For example, it could: - make it difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the senior subordinated notes and our obligations under our current senior credit facility (the “Loan and Security Agreement”); - require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, which will reduce amounts available for working capital, capital expenditures, research and development and other general corporate purposes; - limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; - increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; - place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors with less debt; and - limit our ability to borrow additional funds. 17 Table of Contents The terms of the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes do not fully prohibit us or our subsidiaries from incurring substantial additional debt in the future. Our Loan and Security Agreement also permits additional borrowing. All of the borrowings under our Loan and Security Agreement are senior to the senior subordinated notes. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. In addition, a portion of our debt, including debt incurred under our Loan and Security Agreement, bears interest at variable rates. An increase in the interest rates on our debt will reduce the funds available to repay the senior subordinated notes and our other debt and for operations and future business opportunities and will intensify the consequences of our leveraged capital structure. See “Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for a description of our Loan and Security Agreement and the senior subordinated notes. TO SERVICE OUR DEBT, WE WILL REQUIRE A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF CASH, WHICH DEPENDS ON MANY FACTORS BEYOND OUR CONTROL. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our debt, including the senior subordinated notes and the Loan and Security Agreement, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to an extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot provide assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt, including the senior subordinated notes, or to fund our other liquidity needs. If our future cash flow from operations and other capital resources are insufficient to pay our obligations as they mature or to fund our liquidity needs, we may be forced to reduce or delay our business activities and capital expenditures, sell assets, obtain additional equity capital or restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt, including the senior subordinated notes, on or before maturity. We cannot assure noteholders that we will be able to refinance any of our debt, including the senior subordinated notes, on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms if at all. In addition, the terms of our existing debt, including the senior subordinated notes and the Loan and Security Agreement, and other future debt may limit our ability to pursue any of these alternatives. OUR LOAN AND SECURITY AGREEMENT AND THE INDENTURE IMPOSE OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL RESTRICTIONS ON US. Our Loan and Security Agreement and the indenture under which our senior subordinated notes were issued include restrictive covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: - incur more debt; - pay dividends and make distributions; - issue stock of subsidiaries; - make certain investments; - repurchase stock; - create liens; - enter into transactions with affiliates; - enter into sale-leaseback transactions; - merge or consolidate; and - transfer and sell assets. 18 Table of Contents Our Loan and Security Agreement also requires us to maintain financial ratios. All of these restrictive covenants may restrict our ability to expand or to pursue our business strategies. Our ability to comply with these and other provisions of our indenture and Loan and Security Agreement may be affected by changes in our business condition or results of operations, adverse regulatory developments or other events beyond our control. RISKS RELATED TO THE SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES OUR CONTROLLING STOCKHOLDER, WILLIS STEIN, MAY HAVE INTERESTS THAT CONFLICT WITH HOLDERS OF THE SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES. We are a wholly owned subsidiary of Heat Holdings Corp., whose equity securities are held by Willis Stein and some co-investors. Through its controlling interest in Aavid and pursuant to the terms of the security holders’ agreement among the equity investors, Willis Stein has the ability to control the operations and policies of Aavid. Circumstances may occur in which the interests of Willis Stein, as the controlling equity holder, could be in conflict with the interests of the holders of the senior subordinated notes. In addition, the equity investors may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investment, even though such transactions might involve risks to the holders of the senior subordinated notes. THE SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES ARE CONTRACTUALLY SUBORDINATED IN RIGHT OF PAYMENT TO OUR SENIOR DEBT. The senior subordinated notes are senior subordinated obligations of Aavid ranking junior to all of our existing and future senior debt, equal in right of payment with all of our existing and future senior subordinated debt and senior in right of payment to any of our subordinated debt. The senior subordinated notes are contractually subordinated in right of payment to borrowings under our Loan and Security Agreement. As of December 31, 2005, we had $10.6 million of senior debt outstanding under the Loan and Security Agreement, all of which was secured debt. The indenture limits, and in some (but not all) instances prohibits, the incurrence of additional debt. In addition, all payments on the senior subordinated notes will be blocked in the event of a payment default under the Loan and Security Agreement and may be blocked for up to 179 consecutive days in any given year in the event of non-payment defaults on senior debt. In the event of a default on the senior subordinated notes and any resulting acceleration of the senior subordinated notes, the holders of senior debt then outstanding will be entitled to payment in full in cash of all obligations in respect of such senior debt before any payment or distribution may be made with respect to the senior subordinated notes. In a bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization or similar proceeding relating to us, holders of the senior subordinated notes will participate with trade creditors and all other holders of subordinated debt in the assets remaining after we have paid all of the senior debt. However, because the indenture requires that amounts otherwise payable to holders of the senior subordinated notes in a bankruptcy or similar proceeding be paid to holders of senior debt instead, holders of the senior subordinated notes may receive proportionately less than holders of trade payables in any such proceeding. In any of these cases, we cannot provide assurance that sufficient assets will remain to make any payments on the senior subordinated notes. 19 Table of Contents WE ARE A HOLDING COMPANY AND OUR ONLY SOURCE OF CASH TO PAY INTEREST ON AND THE PRINCIPAL OF THE SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES IS DISTRIBUTIONS FROM OUR SUBSIDIARIES. We are a holding company with no business operations of our own. Our only significant asset is and will be our equity interests in our subsidiaries. We conduct all of our business operations through our subsidiaries. Accordingly, our only source of cash to make payments of interest on and principal of the senior subordinated notes is distributions with respect to our ownership interest in our subsidiaries from the net earnings and cash flows generated by such subsidiaries. WE MAY NOT HAVE THE ABILITY TO RAISE THE FUNDS NECESSARY TO FINANCE THE CHANGE OF CONTROL OFFER REQUIRED BY THE INDENTURE. If we undergo a “change of control,” as defined in the indenture under which the senior subordinated notes were issued, we must offer to buy back the senior subordinated notes for a price equal to 101% of the principal amount, plus interest that has accrued but has not been paid as of the repurchase date. We cannot assure note holders that we will have sufficient funds available to make the required repurchases of the senior subordinated notes in that event, or that we will have sufficient funds to pay our other debts. In addition, our Loan and Security Agreement prohibits us from repurchasing the senior subordinated notes after a change of control until we have repaid in full our debt under such credit facility. If we fail to repurchase the senior subordinated notes upon a change of control, we will be in default under both the senior subordinated notes and our Loan and Security Agreement. Any future debt that we incur may also contain restrictions on repurchases in the event of a change of control or similar event. THE SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES AND THE GUARANTEES COULD BE VOIDED OR SUBORDINATED TO OUR OTHER DEBT IF THE ISSUANCE OF THE SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES OR THE GUARANTEES CONSTITUTED A FRAUDULENT CONVEYANCE. If a bankruptcy case or lawsuit is initiated by our unpaid creditors, the debt represented by the senior subordinated notes and the guarantees of the senior subordinated notes by certain of our subsidiaries may be reviewed under the federal bankruptcy laws and comparable provisions of state fraudulent transfer laws. Under these laws, the debt could be voided, or claims in respect of the senior subordinated notes and the guarantees could be subordinated to all other debts of Aavid or its subsidiaries if, among other things, the court found that, at the time we incurred the debt represented by the senior subordinated notes and the subsidiaries incurred the debt represented by the guarantee, we or any subsidiary: - received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration for the incurrence of such debt; and - were insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of such incurrence; or - were engaged in a business or transaction for which the remaining assets constituted unreasonably small capital; or - intended to incur, or believed that we or a subsidiary executing a guarantee thereof would incur, debts beyond the ability to pay such debts as they matured; or - intended to hinder, delay or defraud creditors. 20 Table of Contents The measure of insolvency for purposes of fraudulent transfer laws varies depending on the law applied. Generally, however, a debtor would be considered insolvent if: - the sum of its debts, including contingent liabilities, were greater than the fair saleable value of all of its assets; or - the present fair saleable value of its assets was less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and mature; or - it could not pay its debts as they become due. EFFECT OF ORIGINAL ISSUE DISCOUNT ON HOLDERS OF THE SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES. The senior subordinated notes are considered to have been issued with original issue discount. Holders of the senior subordinated notes are required to include the accretion of the original issue discount in gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes in advance of receipt of the cash payments to which such income is attributable. If a bankruptcy case is commenced by or against us under the United States Bankruptcy Code, the claim of a holder of senior subordinated notes with respect to the principal amount thereof may be limited to an amount equal to the sum of (i) the purchase price and (ii) that portion of the original issue discount which has been amortized as of the date of any such bankruptcy filing. 