ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. There are a number of important factors that could affect our business and future operating results, including without limitation, the factors set forth below. The information contained in this annual report should be read in light of such factors. Risks Related to Our Financial Condition and Capital Requirements We have a history of losses which, if continued in the future, could eventually make us unable to meet our financial obligations. We have experienced significant losses since we began operations. Though we had net income attributable to common stockholders in fiscal 2006 of $23,763,000, we had a loss from continuing operations of $24,504,000. We may continue to need capital to maintain and upgrade our systems and support our operations. We may require additional cash in order to expand the geographic coverage and the range of services offered by our fiber optic network in order to be competitive with other service providers and to meet customer demands. Historically NEON has expended substantial amounts on construction of this network from the proceeds of its financing activities and has generated negative cash flow. In fiscal 2006, we invested approximately $19.0 million in capital expenditures for our NEON business segment. Failure to make needed capital investments in our fiber optic network business could result in a loss of revenues and customers and prevent us from being able to offer competitive services. We may need new financing to fund our existing business and plans for expansion. We may not be able to secure financing on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Any new financing could contain terms that limit our financial and operating flexibility and place us at a competitive disadvantage. While we have paid our previously outstanding 11% and 9% notes, we may need to borrow additional funds. There is no assurance that additional funding will be available and, if it is, what interest rate we will have to pay, or what other terms would be required of us. Risks Related to Our Acquisition and Divestiture Strategy Our acquisition strategy may prove to be unsuccessful, which could result in further losses and an inability to meet our financial obligations. In order to increase our revenue base, we may make investments in or acquire businesses, products, services or technologies. Consequently, we are subject to the following risks: • we may not be able to make investments or acquisitions on terms which prove advantageous; • acquisitions may cause a disruption in our ongoing business, distract our management and other resources and make it difficult to maintain the operations, organization and procedures of our company or the acquired business. • we may not be able to retain key employees of the acquired business or to maintain good relations with its customers or suppliers; • we may not be able to obtain financing to complete a transaction; and • we may not be able to identify and/or afford suitable acquisitions. 7 We may not be able to use some of our net operating losses for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which may increase our future tax liability. Prior to our acquisition of NEON, changes in the ownership of NEON securities as a result of NEON’s 2002 plan of reorganization have caused there to be an annual limitation on the use of net operating loss carry forwards that arose prior to the effective date of NEON’s plan of reorganization. Similarly, changes in the ownership of Globix’s securities as a result of our 2002 plan of reorganization have caused there to be an annual limitation on the use of net operating loss carry forwards that arose prior to the effective date of Globix’s plan of reorganization. As a result of the merger with NEON and the open market divestiture of significant amounts of shares of Globix stock by former NEON shareholders, both Globix and NEON experienced ownership changes in March 2005 and April 2006, respectively. The availability of NOL carryforwards to reduce the Company’s future Federal income tax liability is subject to limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. Additional limitations on our ability to use net operating losses could increase our U.S. federal income tax liability. We continue to have indemnification obligations and other possible post-closing liabilities relating to the hosting business we divested and the headquarters building we sold. The agreements under which we sold our U.K. and U.S. hosting business and our 139 Centre Street sale provide for potential indemnification obligations and other possible post-closing liabilities. Funds have been escrowed under each of the hosting business transactions to cover remaining obligations and liabilities, but under limited circumstances we could be held liable for more than the escrowed amounts. Under the 139 Centre Street sale, we have a requirement to vacate the building by May 31, 2007 and would be subject to penalties if we failed to do so. We have not yet been released from all obligations related to real estate under lease with the US and UK hosting businesses, and there is the potential that full release will not be realized despite the buyers’ contractual obligations to obtain such releases. Risks Related to Our Business Generally Our revenues could decline significantly if we lose customers or if our existing customers reduce their level of spending on our services. We may experience declines in revenues in the transport services business due to customers leaving us or staying with us but choosing to decrease their spending on our services. Intense competition, overcapacity and a slow down in demand in the telecommunications market could also result in a decline in revenues in the fiber optic services business. Continued declines in revenue could eventually result in an inability to meet our financial obligations. Our largest five customers represent approximately 54.9% of our revenues from continuing operations in 2006. While we expect to continue to provide service to these customers, if one or more of these customers were to discontinue service it could have a material effect on our revenues and results of operations. If we are unable to maintain and upgrade our network and facilities, we could lose customers and revenues or be unable to offer competitive services. A key element of our business strategy is the maintenance and upgrading of our facilities and network, which has required, and will continue to require, management time and the periodic expenditure of capital. Our business could suffer from a loss of management personnel, which may reduce our efficiency and control over our operations and reduce our revenues or earnings. Since our emergence from bankruptcy, we have undertaken a number of changes in management as well as reductions in staffing. As a result, our business has experienced a lack of continuity in management from time to time (and may continue to do so). Our ability to operate effectively depends largely on the experience, skills and performance of our senior management team. The loss or unavailability to us of any member of our senior management team may reduce our efficiency and control over operations and may reduce our revenues or earnings. We may not be able to attract or retain the personnel we need in critical areas of our business, which could reduce our efficiency, impair the quality of our services or otherwise adversely affect the ability of our business to perform its functions. We may experience difficulties in attracting and retaining key personnel for management, technical, sales and marketing and customer support positions. The failure to attract or retain qualified personnel in any of these critical areas could adversely affect the 8 ability of our business to perform its functions. Further efforts to control management costs, given our flat organizational structure, could have an additional adverse impact on employee morale. Our communications systems, network and infrastructure are vulnerable to physical damage, catastrophic outages, power loss, service limitations and other disruptions, which could result in immediate loss of revenues, payment of outage credits to our customers and, more importantly, the loss of customer confidence and business reputation. Interruptions and service limitations in our fiber optic network services could result from natural disasters as well as power loss, our inability to acquire fuel for our backup generators, capacity limitations, software defects, breaches of security, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks and similar events. We also lease telecommunications lines from local, regional and national carriers, whose service may be interrupted. Any damage, failure or limitation that interrupts or delays our operations or limits our ability to provide service could result in the loss of customers and revenues. Our agreements with network customers typically provide for the payment of outage related credits (a predetermined reduction or offset against our lease rate when a customer’s leased facility is non-operational or otherwise does not meet certain operating parameters) or damages in the event of a disruption in service. These credits or damages could be substantial and could significantly decrease our net revenues. If our security measures proved to be inadequate, we could lose customers. Our infrastructure is potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, viruses, denial of service attacks or similar problems. A breach of our security measures could jeopardize the security of confidential and proprietary information and cause interruptions in our operations. We could be required to make significant additional investments to protect against or remedy security breaches. The occurrence of these problems could result in liability and harm our business and reputation. Intense competition in the telecommunications industry from a broad range of competitors may prevent us from obtaining customers, require us to lower prices and reduce our revenues. Our fiber optic network business faces substantial competition from companies with significantly greater financial and other resources, whose capacity is interchangeable with the capacity that we offer, including incumbent local telephone companies, national long-haul and regional carriers, dark fiber providers and metro carriers. In addition, potential competitors capable of offering services similar to those we offer include other communications service providers that own and operate their own networks and equipment, including cable television companies, electric utilities, microwave carriers, satellite carriers, wireless communication system operators and end-users with private communications networks. Many of the targeted customers of our fiber optic network are also potential competitors. If our services are not satisfactory or cost competitive, our targeted customers may utilize other providers where available, or construct their own networks, which would reduce their need for our services and create future sources of competition for us. Our business relies on third-party data communications and telecommunications providers that could increase prices or interrupt service, which in turn could cause us to lose customers and revenues. Our existing network relies on many third-party data communications and telecommunications providers. These carriers are subject to price constraints, including tariff controls, that in the future may be relaxed or lifted. Price increases or the lack of service availability and quality could increase the costs of maintaining our network and result in the loss of customers and revenues. We may not be able to obtain hardware and software on the scale and at the times we need at an affordable cost, and failure to do so could cause us to lose customers or be unable to offer competitive service. We rely on outside vendors to supply us with computer hardware, software and networking equipment. Our fiber optic network relies on equipment from Nortel Networks, Cisco Systems, Lucent Technologies and ECI Telecom. Consequently, our expertise is concentrated in products from these manufacturers. If we are unable over an extended period of time to obtain the products and services that we need on a timely basis and at affordable prices, it could result in the loss of customers and revenues. Our dependence on a limited number of telecommunications carriers exposes us to possible interruptions that could delay or prevent us from providing our services. Approximately 31.3% of the cost of revenues of continuing operations for the year ended September 30, 2006 was derived from services provided by 3 major telecommunication carriers. While we believe that most of these services can be obtained from other alternative carriers, an interruption in service from one of these carriers or other suppliers could limit our ability to serve customers, which would adversely affect our results of operations. 9 Our business requires us to adapt to technological changes, and significant technological changes could render our existing services obsolete. We must adapt to our rapidly changing market by continually improving the responsiveness, functionality and features of our services to meet our customers’ needs. If we are unable to respond to technological advances and conform to emerging industry standards in a cost-effective and timely basis, we could lose customers and there could cease to be a market for our services. Due to rapidly evolving technologies in the fiber optic network industry and the uncertainty of future government regulation, our current business plan may become obsolete and we may lose customers and revenue if we are unable to successfully adjust our products, services and business strategies as required. In the future, we may become subject to more intense competition due to the development of new technologies, an increased supply of domestic and international transmission capacity, the consolidation in the industry among local and long distance service providers and the effects of deregulation resulting from the Telecommunications Act of 1996. The introduction of new services and products or the emergence of new technologies may change the cost or increase the supply of services and products similar to those that it provides. We cannot predict which of many possible future product and service offerings will be crucial to maintain our competitive position or what expenditures will be required to develop profitably and provide such products and services. Prices for our services to carriers specifically, and interstate services in general, may decline over the next several years due primarily to price competition to the extent that network providers continue to install networks that compete with our fiber optic network. We also believe that there will be technological advances that will permit substantial increases in the transmission capacity of both new and existing fiber. We could be liable for violating the intellectual property rights of third parties, which could result in us having to pay a license fee or damages to third parties, which would reduce our revenues. Despite our efforts to protect the intellectual property that is important to the operation of our business, a third party could bring a claim of infringement against us or any of our material suppliers. If such a claim were settled or adjudicated against us or one of our material suppliers, we could be forced to pay for a license to continue using the intellectual property. There is no guarantee that we could obtain such a license, or that it would be available on reasonable terms. Alternatively, we could be forced to defend ourselves against infringement claims, which could be costly and which could result in us having to pay damages to third parties. The cost-effective expansion of our fiber optic network within the Northeast and mid-Atlantic regions is crucial to our business plan, and depends upon numerous factors beyond our control. Our ability to achieve our strategic objectives depends in large part upon the expansion of our fiber optic network within the Northeast and mid-Atlantic regions. Significant changes in the competitive market in these regions could restrict our growth or ability to offer services in a cost-effective manner. We could lose the contract rights upon which we rely to operate and maintain our fiber optic network in the event of bankruptcy proceedings relating to one or more of the third parties that have granted to us the right to build and operate our fiber optic network using their rights-of-way. The construction and operation of our fiber optic network depends upon contract rights known as indefeasible rights-of-use. Indefeasible rights-of-use are commonly used in the telecommunications industry, but remain a relatively new concept in property law. Although indefeasible rights-of-use give the holder a number of rights to control the relevant rights-of-way or fiber optic filaments, legal title remains with the grantor of the rights. Therefore, the legal status of indefeasible rights-of-use remains uncertain, and our indefeasible rights-of-use might be voidable in the event of bankruptcy of the grantor. If we were to lose an indefeasible right-of-use in a key portion of the network, our ability to service network customers could become seriously impaired and we could be required to incur significant expense to resume the operation of the fiber optic network in the affected areas. Despite our existing rights-of-way, we may be forced to make substantial additional payments to the affected landowners or remove our network from their property, which would significantly harm our business and results of operations. Our indefeasible rights-of-use and other rights-of-way depend on the grantor’s interest in the property on which our network is located. To the extent that a grantor of an indefeasible right-of-use or other rights-of-way has a limited easement in the underlying property and not full legal title, the adequacy of our indefeasible rights-of-use or other rights-of-way could be challenged in court. We believe that the easements granted by a substantial number of landowners to grantors of our indefeasible rights-of-use are similar in scope to those with respect to which claims have been asserted, and we cannot guarantee that claims will not be made in the future. 10 Because significant portions of our fiber optic network are constructed upon rights-of-way controlled by utility companies and municipalities which generally place the operation of their facilities ahead of the operation of our fiber optic network, we may be unable to construct and operate our fiber optic network in the affected areas without periodic interruptions and delays caused by the day-to-day operations of these entities. Our rights-of-way agreements with Northeast Utilities, Central Maine Power and Consolidated Edison Communications, Inc. and various other entities contain provisions which acknowledge the right of these entities to make the provision of their services to their own customers their top priority. These companies are required only to exercise “reasonable care” with respect to our facilities and are otherwise free to take whatever actions they deem appropriate with respect to ensuring or restoring service to their customers, any of which actions could impair operation of our network. Regulatory Risks Municipal regulation of our access to public rights-of-way is subject to change and could impose administrative burdens that would result in additional costs to us or limit our fiber optic network operations. Local governments typically retain the ability to license public rights-of-way, subject to the federal requirement that local governments may not prohibit the provision of telecommunications services. Changes in local government regulation could impose additional costs on our business and limit its operations. Local authorities affect the timing and costs associated with its use of public rights-of-way. Federal regulation of the telecommunications industry is changing rapidly and we could become subject to unfavorable new rules and requirements which could impose substantial financial and administrative burdens on us and interfere with our ability to successfully execute our fiber optic network business strategies. Regulation of the telecommunications industry is changing rapidly. Existing and future federal, state, and local governmental regulations will greatly influence the viability of our fiber optic network services business. For example, the FCC recently issued rules under the Telecommunications Act of 1996 which would have required that competitive local exchange carriers, such as NEON, be allowed to purchase the use of certain elements of the telecommunications network owned and operated by incumbent local exchange carriers. By purchasing these elements, competitive local exchange carriers would have been able to provide services in a cost-effective manner to their customers. However, the FCC’s rules were challenged in court by the incumbent local exchange carriers. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit sided with the incumbent local exchange carriers and has required the FCC to formulate new rules. Any new rules issued by the FCC may not provide competitive local exchange carriers with the ability to purchase the use of all of the elements of the incumbent local exchange carrier’s network, and as a result the competitive local exchange carriers may not be able to continue providing services to their customers that they are currently providing. Revenues from telecommunications provided to end-users are subject to contributions to the FCC’s universal service fund, and increases in the amount of the required contributions could increase our costs unexpectedly. While we do not generally provide telecommunications directly to end-users and we are therefore generally exempt from contributing to the FCC’s Universal Service Fund, some of the customers of our fiber optic network are Internet service providers that are treated as end-users by the FCC. Our revenues from these customers are therefore currently subject to an assessment of 9.1%. Such assessments vary and may increase from quarter to quarter. If the annual contribution amount were less than $10,000, we would qualify for a de minimus exemption from contribution to the fund. NEON’s required contributions to the Universal Service Fund for the year ended December 31, 2005 and the nine months ended September 30, 2006 were approximately $264,000 and $233,000, respectively. If NEON becomes subject to regulation as a common carrier in the future, we would be subject to additional regulatory requirements. We do not believe that NEON is currently a “common carrier,” but that status could change based on differing interpretations of current regulations, regulatory changes and changes in the way we conduct our fiber optic network business. If NEON becomes regulated as a common carrier by the FCC, it would have to publicize the rates for its services and submit other reports, and would be required to contribute to federal funds including, but not limited to, those established for Telecommunications Relay Services, for the management of the North American Numbering Plan and for Local Number Portability. These regulatory requirements could impose substantial burdens on us. The Telecommunications Act of 1996 requires incumbent local telephone companies to provide elements of their networks to competitors on an unbundled basis. The FCC determined that dark fiber is a network element that incumbent local telephone 11 companies must provide to others. The availability of this alternative source of supply may increase competition among providers of dark fiber services and could decrease the demand for our fiber optic network services. State regulation of companies providing telecommunications services varies substantially from state to state and NEON may become subject to burdensome and restrictive state regulations as it expands its fiber optic network into a broader geographic area, which could interfere with its operations and our ability to meet our strategic objectives. Our fiber optic network may be subject to state regulation, which can vary substantially from state to state. Our NEON subsidiaries have obtained authority to provide intrastate telecommunications services on a competitive common carrier basis in its market area. Therefore, these subsidiaries are subject to the obligations that applicable law places on all similarly certificated common carriers including the filing of tariffs, state regulation of certain service offerings, pricing, payment of regulatory fees and reporting requirements. Compliance with these regulatory obligations, or any of the regulatory requirements of other states to which we might become subject, could be costly and burdensome. Moreover, some of our rights-of-way depend on NEON’s status as a common carrier in these states, and if that status were to be successfully challenged, those rights-of-way could be terminated. Risks Relating to Financial Accounting Failure to hire and train sufficient finance and accounting resources could impact our ability to file timely financial reports. During the fourth quarter of 2006 management identified a material weakness related to insufficient accounting and finance resources. As a result of the insufficient resources, we did not adequately address certain complex transactions and properly monitor internal controls. Management intends to hire additional accounting and finance employees to address this material weakness. In December 2006, we hired a new Vice President/Controller. We may not be able to hire and train sufficient finance and accounting personnel in a timely fashion, however. If we are unable to hire and train additional finance and accounting personnel, we may not be able to file timely financial reports. In such event, we would also continue to have ineffective internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures and a report by our Independent Registered Public Accountants addressing these assessments. At September 30, 2006, management identified a material weakness resulting in ineffective internal controls over financial reporting and ineffective disclosure controls and procedures. Management concluded that additional resources were needed in the accounting and finance area to properly address complex accounting issues and properly monitor internal controls. Management also concluded that this material weakness contributed to an untimely and inadequate evaluation of general computer controls. Management intends to address this material weakness during fiscal year 2007. Until we adequately address this material weakness in internal control, we will be unable to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on our stock price and our ability to obtain financing if needed. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Because our common stock is thinly traded, prices are more likely to be volatile and it may be harder for our stockholders to sell any sizable number of shares. Our common stock is currently traded on the American Stock Exchange but an active and liquid trading market has not fully developed and, if one does develop, it may not continue. The development of an active public trading market depends upon the 12 existence of willing buyers and sellers and is not within our control. For these reasons, we cannot assure our stockholders that they will be able to resell shares of our common stock for a price that is equal to or greater than the price of our common stock on the date the stock is acquired. If our common stock ceased to be eligible for listing on the American Stock Exchange, the trading prices of the stock could decline and it could become more difficult to dispose of the stock. Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. If our stockholders or option holders, including former NEON stockholders and option holders who received our common stock and stock options in the merger, sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could fall. 13 