Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Holding our shares involves various risks and uncertainties. The risks described in this section are among those that have had or could in the future have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, as well as on the value of our common shares. Risks Related to Our Business Changes in interest rates and credit spreads may adversely affect the value of our bonds and increase our borrowing costs. The Company has exposure to changes in interest rates and credit spreads because all of its bonds pay a fixed rate of interest, while substantially all of the Company’s bond related debt is variable rate. The vast majority of the Company’s variable rate exposure is not hedged. The Company does not have the credit standing to enter into any new interest rate swaps and has limited liquidity to purchase any interest rate caps. Even if we were able to acquire or enter into hedges for some or all of our interest rate risk, hedges do not always work as expected and there can be no assurance that any hedges we acquired or entered into would fully hedge our risk. A rise in interest rates or an increase in credit spreads could cause the value of certain bonds to decline, increase the Company’s borrowing costs and make it economically ineffective for the Company to securitize its bonds. 6 Because our bonds are secured primarily by multifamily rental properties, increasing interest rates leading to higher mortgage rates may make it more difficult for buyers to obtain mortgage financing and may depress the prices buyers are willing to pay, thereby decreasing the value of our collateral and thus our bonds. The value of our bond portfolio and the cash flow available to us to pay our debt and operate our business is dependent upon real estate and the risks related to real estate. Because substantially all of our assets are secured by real estate, or consist of investments in entities that own real estate, the value of our assets is subject to the risks associated with investments in real estate. Most of these investments are directly or indirectly secured by multifamily rental properties, and therefore the value of these investments may be adversely affected by macroeconomic conditions or other factors that adversely affect the real estate market generally, or the market for multifamily real estate and bonds secured by these properties in particular. These possible negative factors include, among others: (i) increasing levels of unemployment and other adverse economic conditions, regionally or nationally; (ii) decreased occupancy and rent levels due to supply and demand imbalances; (iii) changes in interest rates that affect the cost of our capital, the value of our bonds or the value of the real estate that secures the bonds; and (iv) lack of or reduced availability of mortgage financing. Most of our investments derive their value from the cash flows generated by tenant leases. Many of the properties our investments finance have rent limitations that could adversely affect the ability to increase rents, as well as tenant income restrictions that may reduce the number of eligible tenants and, thus, occupancy rates at such properties. If, because of general economic conditions, local market conditions or property specific conditions, the tenants move out or cannot pay the rents charged on the specific units they lease, the owners (our borrowers) may not be able to lease the units to replacement tenants at full rent (or at all), in which case the cash flows from the properties may not be sufficient to pay interest on our bonds or loans and the value of our investments may decline. Real estate may also decline in value because of market conditions, environmental problems, casualty losses for which insurance proceeds are not sufficient to cover the loss, or condemnation proceedings. The value of our assets and our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by changes in local or national laws or regulatory conditions that affect significant segments of the real estate market, especially the multifamily housing market, including environmental, land use and other laws and regulations that affect the cost of maintaining and operating the properties that secure our debt. We have been, and may continue to be, directly and indirectly affected by disruptions in credit markets. Our business was significantly affected by the disruptions in the credit markets over the past several years. Among other things, disruptions in credit markets have in the past and may in the future cause deterioration in the market for tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds and other instruments that are a major part of our assets, and that deterioration could be significant. This has in the past and may in the future result in our having to reduce the carrying value of our bonds. In addition, while we are not directly exposed to the credit disruptions in the Eurozone, we could be negatively affected by any adverse impact these conditions might have on our economy or our capital partners. We depend on the availability of securitization facilities. All of our current bond securitization facilities have mandatory remarketing dates and mature prior to the time the underlying bonds mature or are expected to be redeemed. If we are unable to successfully remarket or replace our bond securitization facilities upon mandatory remarketings or as they mature, we might not be able to extend or refinance our bond related debt. If we are unable to maintain or obtain securitization facilities in the future or if we are unable to remarket the debt, we could experience reduced net interest income. If a significant number of bonds were liquidated to satisfy the termination of securitization facilities upon failed remarketings or maturities or if bond financing costs increased significantly, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Substantially all of our bonds are either encumbered by bond securitization trusts or serve as collateral for securitization facilities, and could be the subject of a forced sale or otherwise unavailable to us. Substantially all of our bonds are either in securitization trusts or pledged as collateral for securitization facilities. In the event a securitized bond defaults in payment or a securitization trust cannot meet its obligations, all or a portion of the bonds held by the securitization trust or pledged in connection therewith may be sold to satisfy the securitized bond payment default or the obligations to the holders of the senior trust interests. In the event bonds are liquidated, no payment will be made to us except to the extent that the sale price received for the bond exceeds the amounts due on the senior obligations of the trust. In addition, if the value of the bonds within the securitization trusts or pledged as additional collateral decreases, we may be required to post cash or additional investments as collateral for such programs. In the event we have insufficient liquidity or unencumbered investments to satisfy these collateral requirements, certain bonds or other collateral within the securitization trusts or pledged in connection therewith may be liquidated by or at the direction of the secured party to reduce the collateral requirement. In such cases, we would lose the interest income from the bonds and our ownership interest in them. If a significant number of bonds or other collateral were liquidated, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 7 A substantial portion of our bonds are subject to our New Bond Securitization Facility (See “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Note 7, Debt”). The facility is subject to, among others, the following provisions: (i) a collateral ratio of at least 144% of the Class A certificates outstanding must be maintained, (ii) the percentage of bonds in payment default must remain below certain thresholds and (iii) the Class A Certificates must be remarketed in 2016. If (i) above is not maintained, all cash flow derived from all the bonds will be held back and not distributed to us until the collateral ratio is restored whereas if (ii) or (iii) above are not met, all cash flow derived from all the bonds that are not Trust Bonds (See “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Note 7, Debt”) will be held back and not distributed to us until compliance is restored. In addition, in the event that a Trust Bond fails to pay its full debt service, interest income from certain of the bonds that are not Trust Bonds shall be used to pay the deficiency and an equal amount is required to be retained as collateral and not distributed to us until such bond default is cured or the associated Class A certificates are redeemed. In the event a bond that is not a Trust Bond fails to pay its full debt service, interest income from the bonds which are not Trust Bonds will be held back from us in the amount of the shortfall until such bond either pays its shortfall or is replaced by another bond. Our bonds are illiquid and may be difficult to sell at fair value. Substantially all of the Company’s bonds are illiquid, which could prevent sales at favorable terms and make it difficult to value the bond portfolio. Our bonds are generally unenhanced and unrated and, as a consequence, the purchasers of the Company’s bonds are generally limited to accredited investors and qualified institutional buyers, which results in a limited trading market. This lack of liquidity complicates how the Company determines the fair value of its bonds as there is limited information on trades of comparable bonds. Therefore, there is a risk that if the Company needed to sell bonds, the price it is able to realize may be lower than the carrying value (i.e., estimated fair value) of such bonds. If that occurred, we might not be able to repay all of our secured borrowings, in which case we would not be able to repay any of our unsecured borrowings. Certain of our bonds are 30 or more days past due in principal and/or interest and others are at risk of becoming 30 or more days past due in principal and/or interest. The aggregate unpaid principal balance (“UPB”) of bonds that were 30 or more days past due in either principal and/or interest at December 31, 2012 was $151.5 million, or 13.7% of our total bond portfolio UPB (based on all bonds - see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - “Bond Portfolio Summary”). We have adjusted the carrying value of our defaulted bonds, but the values realized could be even less if foreclosures were pursued or if our borrowers filed for bankruptcy protection. Additionally, properties collateralizing certain performing bonds have net operating income (as represented in operating statements provided by the borrowing partnerships) which is less than the debt service owed to us. These bonds are at risk of default if the partners of the borrowing partnerships or in some cases, guarantors of the partnerships’ debt, are unable or unwilling to continue to cover the shortfall in order to pay the full debt service. The value of our tax-exempt investments could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws. There can be no assurance that the government will not pass legislation that could adversely affect the value of our tax-exempt bonds. The government could make changes in tax or other laws, such as affordable housing incentive programs, that while not directly affecting our tax-exempt bonds, could make them less valuable to investors. For example, if the federal government were to lower marginal federal income tax rates, or phase out the tax-exempt nature of the interest income for all or higher income taxpayers, our bonds would likely decline in value. Congress could also pass laws that make competing investments more attractive than tax-exempt bonds, which would also make our bonds less valuable. There are restrictions on the ability of our primary bond subsidiary to make distributions to us. TEB had 93.6% of the carrying value of the Company’s bonds at December 31, 2012. While TEB’s preferred stock is owned by third parties, TEB’s common stock is wholly owned by MuniMae TEI Holdings, LLC (“TEI”) and the Company is the indirect owner of 100% of the equity interests in TEI. Under TEB’s operating agreement with its preferred shareholders, there are covenants related to limitations on cash distributions to TEI as well as the type of assets in which TEB can invest, the incurrence of leverage, limitations on issuance of additional preferred equity interests, and certain requirements in the event of merger, sale or consolidation. Pursuant to TEB’s operating agreement, distribution of assets from TEB to TEI can be made in the form of Distributable Cash Flows (TEB’s net income adjusted to exclude the impact of non-cash items) or a distribution other than Distributable Cash Flows (“Restricted Payments”). TEB is not permitted to redeem common stock or to distribute Restricted Payments to MuniMae if after such Restricted Payment is made TEB’s leverage ratio would be above the incurrence limit of 60% or TEB’s liquidation preferences ratios are not at amounts that would allow it to raise additional preferred equity senior to or on parity with the preferred shares outstanding. TEB was below its maximum incurrence levels for leverage and liquidation preference ratios at December 31, 2012 and has been since September 30, 2011. 8 Our common stock in TEB is pledged as collateral and we are subject to restrictions governing how we use our subsidiary’s cash flow. All of TEB’s common stock is pledged to a creditor to support the Company’s collateral requirements related to certain debt and derivative agreements. The Company entered into a forbearance agreement with this creditor (“Counterparty”) in December 2009, which restricted the Company’s ability to utilize common distributions from TEB. On February 2, 2012, the Company entered into a further forbearance agreement with the Counterparty, which provides forbearance from a minimum net asset value requirement and a related certification requirement until the earlier of June 30, 2013 or the date on which the Company satisfies the forbearance release terms. As part of the forbearance agreement and until satisfaction of the forbearance release terms, the Company must continue to use a portion of the common distributions from TEB to satisfy cash obligations owed to the Counterparty and cannot permit TEB to declare or make a permitted Restricted Payment distribution to the Company without prior written consent of the Counterparty. See “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements –Note 6, Derivative Financial Instruments.” If we are unable to successfully remarket TEB’s preferred shares, cash flows available for distribution could be reduced. TEB’s preferred shares are subject to on-going remarketings. On each remarketing date, the remarketing agent will seek to remarket the shares at the lowest distribution rate that would result in a resale of the shares at a price equal to par plus accrued but unpaid distributions, subject to a cap provided in each Series Exhibit (see “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Note 12, Equity”). If the remarketing agent is unable to remarket the shares successfully, TEB could experience increases in payments to its preferred shareholders, which would result in reductions to its common distributions to the Company and those changes could be material. We must be careful not to become subject to the Investment Company Act of 1940 because if we were subject to that Act, we could be required to sell substantial portions of our assets at a time when we might not otherwise want to do so, and we could incur significant losses as a result. We continuously monitor our activities to be sure we do not become subject to regulation as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. We are exempt from the Investment Company Act because of an exemption for companies that are “primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate.” Because of changes in the nature and number of companies relying on this exemption and because most of the guidance surrounding this exemption comes from “no action” letters issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) staff, the SEC on August 31, 2011 issued a request for comment directed to the scope and use of this exemption. We do not know what action the SEC may take in response to the comments it receives. If we were regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we would be subject to extensive regulation and restrictions relating to capital structure, dividends and a number of other matters. Among other things, we would not be able to incur borrowings. Therefore, if due to a change in our assets, a change in the value of particular assets, or a change in the statute or the SEC’s interpretation of the statute, we were to become subject to the Investment Company Act, either we would have to restructure our assets so we would not be subject to that Act or we would have to change materially the way we do business. Any of those changes could require us to sell substantial portions of our assets at a time when we might not otherwise want to do so, and we could incur significant losses of value as a result. The SEC could take actions which might adversely impact the trading or value of our shares. In 2009, the SEC notified us that due to the Company’s delinquent filing status arising from our restatement of our financial statements for 2005 and prior years, the SEC could bring an administrative proceeding to revoke the Exchange Act registration of our common shares or could order the suspension of trading in our common shares. The SEC staff has not taken any further action. When we completed the restatement we made a comprehensive filing, but we did omit some information required to be included in such a filing. Consequently, although we have completed our restatement and have, since November 2010, been making all currently due filings with the SEC, we cannot provide any assurance that the SEC will not take any action in light of our past filing delinquencies and deficiencies, or management not completing its assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for prior periods. Any substantial action against us by the SEC could adversely affect our business and our results of operations. If the registration of our common shares were revoked or if trading were suspended, the public trading of our common shares would effectively terminate, investors would find it difficult, if not impossible, to buy or sell common shares, and the price of our shares would likely decline. We have provided guarantees with respect to certain of the tax credit equity funds that we sponsored, and if we were to become obligated to perform on those guarantees our financial condition and results of operation could suffer. Although we sold our low income housing tax credit business, we retained our GP interest in certain LIHTC Funds for which we have guaranteed the availability of tax benefits and minimum returns on investment to the LIHTC Funds’ investors. In some cases we sold our interest in LIHTC Funds where we made other types of guarantees and we have indemnified the purchaser from investor claims related to those guarantees. We continue to be obligated on our guarantees to the investors (or purchasers) in these funds and we could be required to make substantial payments with regard to these guarantees. The ability of investors in tax credit equity funds to benefit from low income housing tax credits requires that the partnerships in which those funds invest operate affordable housing properties in compliance with a number of requirements in the Code and the regulations under it. Failure to comply continuously with these requirements throughout a 15-year recapture period could result in loss of the right to those low income housing tax credits, including recapture of credits that were already taken, potentially creating liability under our guarantees. If we were to become obligated to perform on these guarantees our financial condition and results of operation would suffer. 9 The value of our investment in and cash flow from our International Operations could fluctuate with changes in the relative value of the dollar, euro and South African rand. The net assets and operations of IHS are denominated in euro and rand. In addition, our co-investment in the South Africa Workforce Housing Fund SA I (“SA Fund”) is denominated in rand. We do not hedge these exposures and may experience losses as the value of our holdings in IHS and the SA Fund fluctuate with changes in foreign exchange rates of both the euro and the rand relative to the dollar. In addition, our SA Fund borrows money in US dollars from the Overseas Private Investment Corporation and the SA Fund itself therefore has dollar to rand currency risk and even though this risk is currently being hedged by the SA Fund with foreign currency derivatives, these borrowings or hedges could adversely impact the SA Fund’s results and the value of our investment. See “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements - Note 1, Description of Business and Basis of Presentation” for more information regarding our interests in IHS and the funds. Our International Operations have foreign government risk and stability risk. Foreign governments have different laws and policies than the US government. They may change their laws and policies in ways which harm or limit our operations. They may compete directly with us. They may nationalize our operations without fair compensation to us. They may enact laws that make it more difficult for foreign companies to do business, thereby giving local competitors an advantage. South Africa and other countries impose exchange controls that regulate how money enters and leaves the country. These laws could be changed in ways that are adverse to us. We are very limited in our ability to anticipate, control or counteract these risks. Foreign countries have social and economic stability risks that are different than the US. South Africa has experienced some social unrest in the past year and if that were to continue our operations and investments there could be adversely affected. The application of international tax regimes could substantially affect our after tax results of operations from International Operations. The taxation of income we earn abroad is subject to an entirely different set of tax risks than income we earn domestically. We are subject to the laws of the various jurisdictions in which we earn income, or through which our income must move in order for us to receive it in the US. These tax consequences are also governed by international treaties. If any of these laws or treaties change, it could impact our projected after tax results and the impact could be substantial. Our International Operations are subject to different real estate risks than our US Operations, including laws and customs related to real estate ownership and finance. Our SA Fund invests in real estate in South Africa. While many of the risks are similar to investing in US real estate, there are legal differences and market differences that may adversely impact our operations and our results. The SA Fund investments include for-sale units. If purchasers have difficulty obtaining mortgage or other financing, unit sales and, therefore, the value of our interest in the SA Fund could be adversely affected. Our second South Africa fund may invest some of its capital in Sub-Sahara countries other than South Africa. We will have the risks described above with respect to our existing SA Fund with respect to those countries as well as the general risks associated with beginning new operations in a country in which we have not previously invested. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Shares Our Board of Directors (“Board”) can issue an unlimited number of common or preferred shares, which could reduce our book value per common share and earnings per common share and the cash or other assets available for distribution per common share upon liquidation or otherwise. Under our Operating Agreement, our Board can authorize, without any requirement of shareholder approval, the issuance of an unlimited number of common shares. Although New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) rules previously imposed some limitations on our ability to issue shares without shareholder approval, our shares are not currently listed on the NYSE. Issuances of common shares could dilute the book value or the net income per common share or the cash per share available for distribution to common shareholders. Our Board can also authorize, without any requirement of shareholder approval, the issuance of an unlimited number of shares with preferences over the common shares as to dividends, distributions on liquidation and other matters, other than voting. This could reduce the book value and net earnings that would be allocable to our common shares and the cash or other assets that are available for distribution to our common shareholders either periodically or upon our liquidation. 10 Our shareholders may be taxed on their respective shares of our taxable income, even if we do not make distributions to them. We are a limited liability company, not a corporation, and we have elected to be taxed as though we were a partnership. Because of that, our taxable income and loss, and our other tax attributes (including the tax-exempt nature of some of the interest we receive) are treated, at least for federal income tax purposes, as the taxable income or loss and other tax attributes, of our shareholders. That avoids the double tax to which corporations and their shareholders usually are subject, and enables our shareholders to benefit from the fact that a portion of our income is exempt from federal income tax. However, because we pay no dividends and have no present plan to pay any, if we have taxable income, our shareholders will be taxed on sums they do not receive, since under the rules of partnership taxation our shareholders are taxed based on our taxable income and not on our distributions. In addition, much of our tax-exempt income is subject to the AMT for federal income tax purposes and shareholders who are subject to the AMT could be subject to tax on such income even if we do not distribute it. While we may at times pass through taxable losses, we consistently pass through to our shareholders for tax purposes our tax-exempt interest income and some taxable interest income. In addition, as a result of the rules applicable to partnership taxation, shareholders who have a low basis in our shares may have capital gains allocated to them from transactions we enter into, even when the Company itself had a capital loss. Provisions of our Operating Agreement may discourage attempts to acquire us. Our Operating Agreement contains at least three groups of provisions that could have the effect of discouraging people from trying to acquire control of us. Those provisions are: ·If any person or group acquires 10% or more of our shares, that person or group cannot, with a very limited exception, (1) engage in a business combination with us (including an acquisition from us of more than 10% of our assets or more than 5% of our shares) within five years after the person or group acquires the 10% or greater interest, unless our Board approved the business combination or approved the acquisition of a 10% or greater interest in us before it took place, or the business combination is approved by two-thirds of the members of our Board and holders of two-thirds of the shares that are not owned by the person or group that owns the 10% or greater interest; or (2) engage in a business combination with us until more than five years after the person or group acquires the 10% or greater interest, unless the business combination is recommended by our Board and approved by holders of 80% of our shares or of two-thirds of the shares that are not owned by the person or group that owns the 10% or greater interest. ·If any person or group makes an acquisition of our shares that causes the person or group to be able to exercise one-fifth or more but less than one-third of all voting power of our shares, one-third or more but less than a majority of all voting power of our shares, or a majority or more of all voting power of our shares, the acquired shares will lose their voting power, except to the extent approved at a meeting by the vote of two-thirds of the shares not owned by the person or group, and we will have the right to redeem, for their fair market value, any of the acquired shares for which the shareholders do not approve voting rights. ·One third of our directors are elected each year to three-year terms. That could delay the time when someone who acquires voting control of us could elect a majority of our directors. The above provisions could deprive our shareholders of opportunities that might be attractive to many of them. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 