Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Discovery and Development Businesses Changes in trends in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, including difficult market conditions, could adversely affect our operating results. Industry trends and economic and political factors that affect pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies and academic and government entities that sponsor clinical research also affect our business. For example, the practice of many companies in these industries and government organizations has been to hire companies like us to conduct large development projects. If these industries reduce their tendency to outsource those projects in light of current difficult conditions in credit markets and the economy in general, or for any reason, our operations, financial condition and growth 20 Table of Contents rate could be materially and adversely affected. In the past, mergers, product withdrawal and liability lawsuits, and other factors in the pharmaceutical industry appear to have slowed decision-making by pharmaceutical companies and delayed drug development projects. Continuation or increases in these trends could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, numerous governments have undertaken efforts to control growing healthcare costs through legislation, regulation and voluntary agreements with medical care providers and pharmaceutical companies. If future cost-containment efforts limit the profits that can be derived on new drugs, our clients might reduce their drug discovery and development spending, which could reduce our revenue and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our revenue depends on a small number of industries and clients. We provide services to the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industries and academic and government organizations that sponsor clinical trials, and our revenue is highly dependent on expenditures by these clients. Accordingly, our operations could be materially adversely affected by consolidation in these industries or other factors resulting in a decrease in the number of our potential clients, including business reductions or failures due to a lack of financing. If the number of our potential clients declines even further, they might be able to negotiate price discounts or other terms for our services that are less favorable to us than has historically been the case. We have experienced client concentration in the past and could again in the future. The loss of business from a significant client could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Backlog does not necessarily result in revenue, and to the extent the mix of contracts in our backlog continues to shift toward larger contracts with a more global component, this may cause the rate at which this backlog converts into revenue to lengthen when compared to historical trends. Our backlog as of any date is not necessarily a meaningful predictor of future results because backlog can be affected by a number of factors, including the size and duration of contracts, many of which are performed over several years, and the changes in labor utilization that typically occur during a study. Additionally, contracts relating to our clinical development business are subject to early termination by the client and clinical trials can be delayed or canceled for many reasons, including unexpected test results, safety concerns, regulatory developments or economic issues. Also, the scope of a contract can change significantly during the course of a study. If the scope of a contract is revised, the adjustment to backlog occurs when the revised scope is approved by the client. For these and other reasons, we might not fully realize our entire backlog as net revenue. As we increasingly compete for and enter into large contracts that are more global in nature, we expect the rate at which this backlog converts into revenue, to increase or lengthen. An increase in this conversion rate means that the rate of revenue recognized on these large contract awards may be slower than what we have experienced in the past, which could impact our net revenues and results of operations on a quarterly and annual basis. The revenue recognition on larger, more global projects could be slower than on smaller, less global projects for a variety of reasons, including but not limited to an extended period of negotiation between the time the project is awarded to us and the actual signature of the contract as well as an increased timeframe for obtaining the regulatory approvals necessary. The majority of our clients’ contracts can be delayed, terminated or reduced in scope upon short notice. Most of our contracts for discovery and development services are terminable by the client upon 30 to 90 days’ notice. Clients delay, terminate or reduce the scope of their contracts for a variety of reasons, including but not limited to: • lack of available financing; • products being tested fail to satisfy safety requirements; • products have undesired clinical results; • the client decides to forego a particular study; • inability to enroll enough patients in the study; • inability to recruit enough investigators; • production problems cause shortages of the drug; and • actions by regulatory authorities. 21 Table of Contents The delay, loss or reduction in scope of a large contract or multiple smaller contracts could adversely affect our operating results, although our contracts entitle us to receive payment for work performed in the event of cancellation. Cancellation or delay of a large contract or multiple smaller contracts could result in under-utilized resources and require an adjustment to our backlog, negatively affecting our net revenue and results of operations. We might not be able to recruit and retain the experienced personnel we need to compete in the drug discovery and development industry. Our future success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled personnel. Management Our future success depends on the personal efforts and abilities of the principal members of our senior management and scientific staff to provide strategic direction, develop business, manage our operations, and maintain a cohesive and stable work environment. For example, we rely on the services of Fredric N. Eshelman, Pharm.D., our chief executive officer. In addition, we hired a new chief medical officer, Christine Dingivan, during 2008 and her integration into our company has been and will continue to be critical to our success. Although we have employment agreements with most of our executives, they are generally only for one or two years and do not assure that Dr. Eshelman or any other executive with whom we have an employment agreement will remain with us. We do not have employment agreements with all of our key personnel. Healthcare Providers Our ability to maintain, expand or renew existing business with our clients and to get business from new clients, particularly in the drug development sector, depends on our ability to subcontract and retain healthcare providers with the skills necessary to keep pace with continuing changes in drug development technologies. Competition for experienced healthcare providers is intense. We compete with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including our clients and collaborators, other contract research companies, and academic and research institutions, to recruit healthcare providers. Scientists and Other Technical Professionals Our ability to maintain, expand or renew existing business with our clients and to get business from new clients in both the drug development and the drug discovery areas also depends on our ability to hire and retain scientists with the skills necessary to keep pace with continuing changes in drug discovery and development technologies. We face the same risks, challenges and competition in attracting and retaining experienced scientists as we do with healthcare providers. Any inability to hire additional qualified personnel might also require an increase in the workload for both existing and new personnel. We might not be successful in attracting new healthcare providers, scientists or management, or in retaining or motivating our existing personnel. The shortage of experienced healthcare providers and scientists, or other factors, might lead to increased recruiting, relocation and compensation costs for these professionals, which might exceed our forecasts. These increased costs might reduce our profit margins or make hiring new healthcare providers or scientists impracticable. If we are unable to attract and retain any of these personnel, our ability to execute our business plan will be adversely affected. Our future success depends on our ability to keep pace with rapid technological changes that could make our services less competitive or obsolete. The biotechnology, pharmaceutical and medical device industries generally and drug discovery and development more specifically are subject to increasingly rapid technological changes. Our competitors or others might develop technologies, services or products that are more effective or commercially attractive than our current or future technologies, services or products, or that render our technologies, services or products less competitive or obsolete. If competitors introduce superior technologies, services or products and we cannot make enhancements to ours to remain competitive, our competitive position, and in turn our business, revenue and financial condition, would be materially and adversely affected. Hardware or software failures, delays in the operations of our computer and communications systems or the failure to implement system enhancements could harm our business. 22 Table of Contents Our success depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications systems. A failure of our network or data gathering procedures could impede the processing of data, delivery of databases and services, client orders and day-to-day management of our business and could result in the corruption or loss of data. While certain of our operations have disaster recovery plans in place, they might not adequately protect us, particularly because we currently do not have redundant facilities everywhere in the world to provide information technology capacity in the event of a system failure. Despite any precautions we may take, damage from fire, floods, hurricanes, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, break-ins and similar events at our various computer facilities could result in interruptions in the flow of data to our servers and from our servers to our clients. In addition, any failure by our computer environment to provide our required data communications capacity could result in interruptions in our service. In the event of a delay in the delivery of data, we could be required to transfer our data collection operations to an alternative provider of server hosting services. Such a transfer could result in delays in our ability to deliver our products and services to our clients. Additionally, significant delays in the planned delivery of system enhancements, improvements and inadequate performance of the systems once they are completed could damage our reputation and harm our business. Finally, long-term disruptions in the infrastructure caused by events such as natural disasters, the outbreak of war, the escalation of hostilities and acts of terrorism, particularly involving cities in which we have offices, could adversely affect our businesses. Although we carry property and business interruption insurance, our coverage might not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur. Any failure by us to comply with existing regulations could harm our reputation and operating results. Any failure on our part to comply with existing regulations could result in the termination of ongoing research or the disqualification of data for submission to regulatory authorities. This would harm our reputation, our prospects for future work and our operating results. For example, if we were to fail to verify that informed consent is obtained from participants in connection with a particular clinical trial or grant deviations from the inclusion or exclusion criteria in a study protocol, the data collected from that trial could be disqualified and we might be required to conduct the trial again at no further cost to our client, but at a substantial reputational and financial cost to us. Furthermore, the issuance of a notice from the FDA based on a finding of a material violation by us of good clinical practice, good laboratory practice or good manufacturing practice requirements could similarly materially and adversely affect us. Proposed and future legislation or regulations might increase the cost of our business or limit our service or product offerings. Federal or state authorities might adopt healthcare legislation or regulations that are more burdensome than existing regulations. For example, recent product safety concerns and the creation of the Drug Safety Oversight Board could change the regulatory environment for drug products, including the process for FDA product approval and post-approval safety surveillance. These and other changes in regulation could increase our expenses or limit our ability to offer some of our services or products. For example, the confidentiality of patient-specific information and the circumstances under which it may be released for inclusion in our databases or used in other aspects of our business are subject to substantial government regulation. Additional legislation or regulation governing the possession, use and dissemination of medical record information and other personal health information might require us to implement new security measures that require substantial expenditures or limit our ability to offer some of our services. These regulations might also increase costs by creating new privacy requirements for our informatics business and mandating additional privacy procedures for our clinical research business. We might lose business opportunities as a result of healthcare reform. Numerous governments have undertaken efforts to control growing healthcare costs through legislation, regulation and voluntary agreements with healthcare providers and drug companies. Healthcare reform could reduce demand for our services, including potential drug candidates that are being developed by us or with others under our risk-sharing agreements, and, as a result, our revenue. In recent years, the U.S. Congress has reviewed several comprehensive health care reform proposals. The proposals are intended to expand healthcare coverage for the uninsured and reduce the growth of total healthcare expenditures. The U.S. Congress has also considered and may adopt legislation that could have the effect of putting downward pressure on the prices that pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can charge for prescription drugs. The Democratic Party having taken control of Congress in 2006, and the White House in 2008, 23 Table of Contents increases the possibility of healthcare reform. Any such legislation could cause our discovery and development clients to spend less on research and development. If this were to occur, we would have fewer business opportunities for our development and discovery service businesses, which could reduce our earnings, and the development of particular compounds might be discontinued. Similarly, pending or future healthcare reform proposals outside the United States could negatively impact our revenue from our international operations. The drug discovery and development services industry is highly competitive. The drug discovery and development services industry is highly competitive. We often compete for business not only with other drug discovery and development companies, but also with internal discovery and development departments within our clients, some of which are large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies with greater resources than we have. We also compete with universities and teaching hospitals. If we do not compete successfully, our business will suffer. The industry is highly fragmented, with numerous smaller specialized companies and a handful of full-service companies with global capabilities similar to ours. Increased competition might lead to price and other forms of competition that might adversely affect our operating results. As a result of competitive pressures, our industry experienced consolidation, including “going private” transactions, in recent years. This trend is likely to produce more competition from the resulting larger companies, and ones without the cost pressures of being public, for both clients and acquisition candidates. In addition, there are few barriers to entry for smaller specialized companies considering entering the industry. Because of their size and focus, these companies might compete effectively against larger companies such as us, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our business has experienced substantial expansion in the past and we might not properly manage that expansion in the future. Our business has expanded substantially in recent years. Rapid expansion could strain our operational, human and financial resources and facilities. If we fail to properly manage our expansion, our expenses might grow more than revenue and our results of operations and financial condition might be negatively affected. In order to manage expansion, we must, among other things, do the following: • continue to improve our operating, administrative and information systems; • accurately predict our future personnel, resource and facility needs to meet our commitments; • track the progress of ongoing projects; and • attract and retain qualified management, sales, professional, scientific and technical operating personnel. In addition, we have numerous business groups, subsidiaries and divisions. If we cannot properly manage these groups, subsidiaries or divisions, it will disrupt our operations. We also face additional risks in expanding our foreign operations. Specifically, we might find it difficult to: • assimilate differences in foreign business practices and regulations; • properly integrate systems and operating procedures; • hire and retain qualified personnel; and • overcome language and cultural barriers. Future acquisitions or investments could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses and adversely affect our business. We anticipate that a portion of any future growth of our business might be accomplished by acquiring existing businesses, products or technologies. The success of any acquisition will depend upon, among other things, our ability to integrate acquired personnel, operations, products and technologies into our organization effectively, to retain and motivate key personnel of acquired businesses and to retain their clients. In addition, we might not be able to identify suitable acquisition opportunities or obtain any necessary financing on acceptable terms. We might also spend time and money investigating and negotiating with potential acquisition or investment targets, but not complete the transaction. Any future acquisition could involve other risks, including the assumption of additional liabilities and expenses, issuances of 24 Table of Contents potentially dilutive securities or interest-bearing debt, transaction costs, reduction in our stock price as a result of any of these or because of market reaction to a transaction and diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. We have made and plan to continue to make investments in other companies. In many cases, there is no public market for the securities of these companies and we might not be able to sell these securities on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In addition, if these companies encounter financial difficulties, we might lose all or part of our investment. For example, in 2008 we recorded an impairment of investment totaling $14.0 million to write down the carrying value of our investments for other-than-temporary declines in fair market value. See Note 3 in the notes to consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report for a more detailed discussion of these impairments. The investment of our cash and cash equivalents, short-term and long-term investments balance are subject to risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. At December 31, 2008, we had $491.8 million in cash and cash equivalents, $27.1 million in short-term investments and $89.6 in long-term investments. We have historically invested in U.S. government obligations, guaranteed student loans, municipal notes, corporate notes and bonds, commercial paper, certificates of deposit and money market funds meeting our investment criteria. These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which have been exacerbated by the recent global financial crisis. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we determined that any declines in the fair value of our investments were temporary. There may be further declines in the value of these investments, which we may determine to be other-than-temporary. These market risks might have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition, which could harm our business or our ability to pay dividends or repurchase stock. At December 31, 2008, we held approximately $89.6 million, net of unrealized loss, in auction rate securities, all of which were classified as long-term. Our portfolio of investments in auction rate securities consists of interests in government-guaranteed student loans, insured municipal debt obligations and municipal preferred auction rate securities. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2008, all of our auction rate securities had a failed auction. We will not be able to liquidate these securities until a future auction is successful, the issuer redeems the outstanding securities or the securities mature. If the issuers are unable to successfully close future auctions and their credit ratings deteriorate, we may in the future be required to record an impairment charge on these investments. If future auctions fail, it could take until the final maturity of the underlying securities, which is up to 34 years, if we are ever to realize our investments’ recorded value. These factors might have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition, which could harm our business or our ability to pay dividends or repurchase stock. The fixed price nature of our development contracts could hurt our operating results. The majority of our contracts for the provision of development services are at fixed prices or fixed unit prices, and as such have set limits on the amounts we can charge for our services. As a result, variations in the timing and progress of large contracts can materially affect our operating results. In addition, we bear the risk of cost overruns unless the scope of activity is revised from the contract specifications and we are able to negotiate a contract modification with the client shifting the additional cost to the client. If we fail to adequately price our contracts in total or at the unit level, or if we experience significant cost overruns, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. From time to time, we have had to commit unanticipated resources to complete projects, resulting in lower gross margins on those projects. We might experience similar situations in the future, which could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. If we are unable to attract suitable willing investigators and volunteers for our clinical trials, our development business might suffer. The clinical research studies we run in our Development segment rely upon the ready accessibility and willing participation of physician investigators and volunteer subjects. Investigators are typically located at hospitals, clinics or other sites and supervise administration of the study drug to participants during the course of a clinical trial. Volunteer subjects generally include people from the communities in which the studies are conducted, including our Phase I clinic in Austin, Texas, which to date has provided a substantial pool of potential subjects for research studies. Our clinical research 25 Table of Contents development business could be adversely affected if we were unable to attract suitable and willing investigators or volunteers on a consistent basis. Our business exposes us to potential liability for personal injury claims that could affect our financial condition. Our business involves the testing of new drugs and medical devices on human volunteers and, if marketing approval is received for any of our drug candidates, their use by participants. This exposes us to the risk of liability for personal injury or death to patients resulting from, among other things, possible unforeseen adverse side effects or improper administration of a drug or device. Many of these volunteers and participants are already seriously ill and are at risk of further illness or death. For example, as previously disclosed, beginning in early 2007, we were named as a co-defendant in lawsuits alleging injuries from the ingestion of sanofi-aventis’ FDA-approved antibiotic Ketek, for which we provided certain clinical trial services to sanofi-aventis’ predecessor. If we are required to pay damages or incur defense costs in connection with any personal injury claim that is outside the scope of indemnification agreements we have with clients and collaborative partners, if any indemnification agreement is not performed in accordance with its terms or if our liability exceeds the amount of any applicable indemnification limits or available insurance coverage, we could be materially and adversely affected both financially and reputationally. We might also not be able to get adequate insurance for these risks at reasonable rates in the future. Our business uses biological and hazardous materials, which could injure people or violate laws, resulting in liability that could hurt our financial condition and business. Our drug discovery and development activities involve the controlled use of potentially harmful biological materials, as well as hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from the use, storage, handling or disposal of these materials. In the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for damages that result, and any liability could exceed our ability to pay. Any contamination or injury could also damage our reputation, which is critical to getting new business. In addition, we are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and specified waste products. The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations is significant and if changes are made to impose additional requirements, these costs could increase and have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to international economic, currency, political and other risks that could negatively affect our revenue and results of operations. Because we provide our Development and Discovery Sciences services worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Our net revenue from our non-U.S. operations represented approximately 39.1% of our total net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2008. We anticipate that revenue from international operations will grow in the future. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: • changes in foreign currency exchange rates, which could result in foreign currency losses; • changes in a specific country or region’s political or economic conditions; • potential negative consequences from changes in tax laws affecting our ability to expatriate profits; • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations, including risks of violations of local laws or the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act by employees overseas; and • unfavorable labor regulations, including specifically those applicable to our European operations. For example, in 2008 our income from operations was negatively impacted by approximately $6.5 million, net of hedging loss, due to the effect of the weakening and then subsequent strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to the euro, British pound and Brazilian real. Although we attempt to manage this risk through provisions in our contracts with our clients and other methods, including foreign currency hedging contracts, we might not be able to eliminate or manage these risks in the future and our income from operations could be materially and adversely affected by a significant decline in the value of the U.S. dollar. Our inability to adequately protect our intellectual property rights could hurt our business. 26 Table of Contents Our success will depend in part on our ability to protect the proprietary software, compositions, processes and other technologies we develop during the drug development process. In addition, one of our business strategies is to in-license and/or out-license rights to drug candidates and enter into collaborations with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for the development of proprietary drug candidates. Any inability to protect our intellectual property rights could materially and adversely affect our business. Any patents that we own or license might not provide valuable protection in the future for the covered technology or products. Our patent applications might never result in the issuance of a patent. Competitors might develop similar products or methods that are not covered by our issued patent claims. In addition, an issued patent might be narrowed or invalidated by a court challenge. The value of an issued patent could also be diminished if a patent is issued to a competitor that blocks our ability to use our patented technology. If blocked, we might be forced to stop using some or all of the technology or to license technology from third parties on unfavorable terms. In addition to patent protection, we also rely on copyright, trademark and trade secret protection. In an effort to maintain the confidentiality and ownership of our intellectual property, we require our employees, consultants and advisors to execute confidentiality and proprietary information agreements. These agreements and other procedures, however, might not provide us with adequate protection against improper use or disclosure of confidential information. Also, there might not be adequate remedies in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. Furthermore, from time to time we hire scientific personnel formerly employed by other companies involved in one or more areas similar to the activities we conduct. In some situations, our confidentiality and proprietary information agreements might conflict with, or be subject to, the rights of third parties with whom our employees, consultants or advisors have prior employment or consulting relationships. Although we require our employees and consultants to maintain the confidentiality of all confidential information of previous employers, both the company and these individuals might be subject to allegations of trade secret misappropriation or other similar claims as a result of their prior affiliations. Finally, others might independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Our failure to protect our proprietary information and techniques might inhibit or limit our ability to exclude competitors from the market and to execute our business strategies. The drug discovery and development industry has a history of patent and other intellectual property litigation, and we might be involved in costly intellectual property lawsuits. The drug discovery and development industry has a history of patent and other intellectual property litigation, and these lawsuits will likely continue. Because we provide many different services in this industry and have rights to compounds, we face potential patent infringement suits by companies that have patents for similar products and methods used in business or other suits alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights. In addition to the possibility of having to defend an infringement claim asserted against us, in order to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, we might have to initiate legal proceedings against third parties. Legal proceedings relating to intellectual property could be expensive, take significant time and divert management’s attention from other business concerns, whether we win or lose. The cost of this kind of litigation could affect our profitability. Further, if we do not prevail in an infringement lawsuit brought against us, we might have to pay substantial damages, including treble damages, and we could be required to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license to use technology on unfavorable terms. We have relatively limited experience in the drug discovery business, and our prospects for success in this business remain uncertain and are dependent on third parties with whom we collaborate. It takes many years for a drug discovery business like ours to generate revenue and income. We established our drug Discovery Sciences segment in 1997 and have relatively limited experience with these activities and might not be successful in our drug discovery efforts. Generating revenue and income from our drug discovery business and compound partnering activities will depend on our ability to: • develop products internally or obtain rights to them from others on favorable terms; • successfully complete laboratory testing and human studies; • obtain clinical trial materials of sufficient quality or quantity; • obtain and maintain intellectual property rights to these products; 27 Table of Contents • obtain and maintain regulatory approvals related to the efficacy and safety of these products; • enter into agreements with third parties to continue the development and commercialization of drug candidates; and • enter into arrangements with third parties to manufacture products on our behalf and to provide sales and marketing functions. Our ability to succeed in our drug discovery business will depend on successfully executing existing and new arrangements we enter into for the development and commercialization of drug candidates. The third parties that we collaborate with might not perform their obligations as expected or they might breach or terminate their agreements with us or otherwise fail to conduct their collaborative activities successfully and in a timely manner. Further, parties collaborating with us might elect not to develop the product candidates or not to devote sufficient resources to the development, manufacture, regulatory strategy and approvals, marketing or sale of these product candidates. If the parties to our collaborative agreements do not fulfill their obligations, elect not to develop a candidate or fail to devote sufficient resources to it, we could be materially and adversely affected. We are dependent on third parties for essential business functions for our risk-sharing arrangements and failures of these third party providers could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We and some of our collaborative partners are dependent on third parties for functions associated with the development and commercialization of our potential drug candidates, including manufacturing and marketing and sales. Our dependence on third parties for these services might adversely affect us and our ability to develop and commercialize a drug candidate on a timely and competitive basis. If we or our collaborative partners are unable to retain or replace third-party providers of required services on commercially acceptable terms, our potential drug candidates might be delayed and might not be developed and commercialized as planned, if at all. If we encounter delays or failures by these third parties to perform, we might have to seek alternative sources of supply, lose sales or abandon a drug candidate, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We might not be able to obtain government approval for our product candidates. The development and commercialization of pharmaceutical products are subject to extensive governmental regulation in the United States and foreign countries. Government approvals are required to develop, market and sell the potential drug candidates we are developing alone or with others under our risk-sharing arrangements. Obtaining government approval to develop, market and sell drug candidates is time-consuming and expensive, and the clinical trial results for a particular drug candidate might not satisfy requirements to obtain government approvals. For example, in late 2005, Johnson & Johnson, our collaborator on dapoxetine, received a “not approvable” letter from the FDA. In addition, governmental approvals might not be received in a timely manner, if at all, and we and our collaborative partners might not be able to meet other regulatory requirements for our products. For example, in late 2008, the FDA notified Takeda that it would not be able to complete its review of the alogliptin NDA before the Prescription Drug Use Fee Act date due to the lack of internal resources. In addition, requirements for government approval to market and sell drug candidates are subject to change. For example, in July 2008, the Endocrinologic and Metabolic Drugs Advisory Committee met to discuss the role of cardiovascular assessment for Type 2 diabetes drugs in the premarketing and post marketing settings. As a result of this meeting, the Division of Endocrinologic and Metabolic Drug Products in the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research decided that concerns about cardiovascular risk should be more thoroughly addressed during drug development programs, and in December 2008, issued formal, final guidance on the topic titled “Guidance for Industry – Diabetes Mellitus – Evaluating Cardiovascular Risk in New Antidiabetic Therapies to Treat Type 2 Diabetes”. As a result of this new guidance and other uncertainties in the regulatory process, alogliptin might not be approved for sale by regulatory agencies. Finally, even if we are successful in obtaining all required approvals to market and sell a drug candidate, post-approval requirements and the failure to comply with other regulations could result in suspension or limitation of government approvals. In connection with drug discovery activities outside the United States, we and our collaborators will be subject to foreign regulatory requirements governing the testing, approval, manufacture, labeling, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products. These requirements vary from country to country. Even if approval has been obtained for a product in the United States, approvals in foreign countries must be obtained prior to marketing the product in those countries. The approval process in foreign countries may be more or less rigorous and the time required for approval may 28 Table of Contents be longer or shorter than that required in the United States. Clinical studies conducted outside of any particular country may not be accepted by that country, and the approval of a pharmaceutical product in one country does not assure that the product will be approved in another country. We might incur substantial expense to develop products that are never successfully developed and commercialized. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur substantial research and development and other expenses in connection with our compound partnering agreements. The potential drug candidates to which we devote resources might never be successfully developed or commercialized by us or our collaborative partners for numerous reasons, including: • preclinical and clinical trial results; • delays in manufacturing, or the inability to manufacture product for use in clinical trials or for sale following regulatory approval, if any; • competitive products with superior safety and efficacy profiles; • patent conflicts or unenforceable intellectual property rights; • failures or delays in obtaining regulatory approvals; • demand for the particular product; and • other factors that could make the product uneconomical. For example, we terminated the implitapide program for various reasons, including the risks associated with continued development and limited market potential. Incurring significant expenses for a potential drug candidate that is not successfully developed and/or commercialized could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, prospects and stock price. Our operations might be affected by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event. We depend on our clients, investigators, collaboration partners, our own laboratories and other facilities for the continued operation of our business. Although we have contingency plans in effect for natural disasters or other catastrophic events, these events, including terrorist attacks, pandemic flu, hurricanes and ice storms, could still disrupt our operations or those of our clients, investigators and collaboration partners, which could also affect us. Even though we carry business interruption insurance policies and typically have provisions in our contracts that protect us in certain events, we might suffer losses as a result of business interruptions that exceed the coverage available under our insurance policies or for which we do not have coverage. Any natural disaster or catastrophic event affecting us or our clients, investigators or collaboration partners could have a significant negative impact on our operations and financial performance. Our development operations might be affected if there was a disruption to the air travel system. Our global central laboratories and some of our other development and discovery services rely heavily on air travel for transport of clinical trial kits, other materials and people, and disruption to the air travel system could have a material adverse effect on our business. While we have developed contingency plans for a variety of events that could disrupt or limit available air transportation, these plans might not be effective or sufficient to avert such a material adverse effect. Risks Related to Owning Our Stock You might not receive any dividends, and the reduction or elimination of dividends might negatively affect the market price of our common stock. We only began paying dividends as a public company in late 2005. Future dividend payments are not guaranteed and are within the absolute discretion of our board of directors. You might not receive any dividends as a result of any of the following factors: • we are not obligated to pay dividends; • our board of directors could modify or revoke the dividend policy at any time and for any reason; 29 Table of Contents • even if the dividend policy is not modified or revoked, our board of directors could decide to reduce dividends or not to pay any dividends at all, at any time and for any reason; • the amount of dividends distributed is subject to state law restrictions; • new credit facilities or other agreements could limit the amount of dividends we are permitted to pay; and • our stockholders have no contractual or other legal right to dividends. Our dividend policy is based upon our current assessment of the cash needs of our business and the environment in which it operates. That assessment could change due to, among other things, changes in general economic and financial market conditions, our results of operations, cash requirements, financial condition, contractual restrictions, growth opportunities, acquisitions, competitive or technological developments, provisions of applicable law and other factors that our board of directors might deem relevant. The reduction or elimination of dividends might negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Our dividend policy and stock repurchase plan might limit our ability to pursue other growth opportunities. Our board of directors has adopted an annual cash dividend policy which reflects an intention to distribute to our shareholders via regular quarterly dividends a portion of the cash generated by our business that exceeds our operating needs and capital expenditures. In addition, our board of directors authorized the Company to repurchase up to $350.0 million of its common stock from time to time in the open market. In developing the dividend policy and the stock repurchase plan, we have made assumptions for and judgments about our expected results of operations, anticipated levels of capital expenditures, income taxes and working capital. Payment of dividends or stock repurchases could limit our ability to finance any material expansion of our business, including through acquisitions, investments or increased capital spending, or to fund our operations. Because our stock price is volatile, our stock price could experience substantial declines. The market price of our common stock has historically experienced and might continue to experience volatility. Our quarterly operating results or anticipated future results, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets, both of which have been experiencing uncertainty in 2008 due to the global financial crisis, and other developments affecting us or our competitors have caused and could continue to cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. These factors include ones beyond our control, such as changes in revenue and earnings estimates by analysts, market conditions within our industry, disclosures by product development partners and actions by regulatory authorities with respect to potential drug candidates, changes in pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industries and the government sponsored clinical research sector. In addition, in recent years, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. The stock market, and in particular the market for pharmaceutical and biotechnology company stocks, has also experienced significant decreases in value in the past. This volatility and valuation decline have affected the market prices of securities issued by many companies, often for reasons unrelated to their operating performance, and might adversely affect the price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 30 Table of Contents 