Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Holding our shares involves various risks and uncertainties. The risks described in this section are among those that have had or could in the future have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, as well as on the value of our common shares. Risks Related to Our Business There is substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Although the Company has been able to extend, restructure and obtain forbearance agreements on various debt and interest rate swap agreements, such that none of our debt has been accelerated at present, most of these extensions, restructurings and forbearance agreements are short-term in nature and do not provide a viable long-term solution to the Company’s liquidity issues (see “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Note 9, Derivative Financial Instruments and Note 10, Debt”). If the Company is not able to negotiate other arrangements, the Company will not be able to pay the interest on its non-bond debt (specifically its subordinate debentures when the rate is due to increase beginning in the first quarter of 2012), and possibly sooner. If these subordinated debentures were accelerated, the Company would not be able to pay the debt. See “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 10 – Debt” for further information. In the event management is not successful in restructuring or settling its remaining non-bond related debt, or in generating sufficient liquidity from the sale of non-bond related assets or if the bond portfolio net interest income is substantially reduced, the Company may have to consider seeking relief through a bankruptcy filing. These factors raise substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. We are exposed to risks specific to real estate. Because many of our assets are secured by real estate, or consist of investments in entities that own real estate, the value of our assets is subject to the risks associated with investments in real estate. Most of our real estate derives its value from the cash flows generated by tenant leases. If, because of general economic conditions, local market conditions or property specific conditions, the tenants move out or cannot pay the rents charged on the specific units they lease, the units may not be able to lease the units to replacement tenants at full rent (or at all), in which case the cash flows from the property may not be sufficient to pay interest on our bonds or loans and the values of our investments may decline. We conduct extensive due diligence prior to making investments but problems may arise subsequent to such investment. In addition, real estate may decline in value because of market conditions, an inability to obtain key permits, a change in, or failure to obtain a change in, zoning, environmental problems, casualty losses for which insurance proceeds are not sufficient to cover the loss, or condemnation proceedings. The value of our assets and our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by changes in local or national laws or regulatory conditions that affect significant segments of the real estate market, especially the multifamily housing market, including environmental, land use and other laws and regulations that affect the types of buildings that can be built or building materials that can be used, or that otherwise increase construction costs or limit land usage. Negative changes in the value of our assets could have a material adverse effect on us. We have been directly and indirectly affected by the disruptions in credit markets. Our businesses were affected by the disruptions in the credit markets over the past several years, in most cases significantly. Some of these disruptions had direct effects on us or our assets, and some had effects on financial institutions and other entities with which we deal that affected their ability or willingness to participate or to continue to participate in our activities as equity investors, lenders or otherwise. The principal effects of the credit market disruption on us are described in Item 1. Business – “Overview.” As a result we have sold, liquidated or closed down substantially all of our non-bond related businesses. We have been severely affected by deterioration in the market for tax-exempt bonds and other instruments of the type we own. Over the past several years, there has been a major deterioration in the market for tax-exempt bonds and other instruments that are a major part of our assets. This, combined with the factors that have affected credit markets and financial institutions throughout the nation, continued to affect us in 2010 and are likely to affect our operations in the current year. We are unable to originate new tax-exempt bonds and we have had to reduce the carrying value of those we own, as well as reducing the value of taxable loans we hold. 11 Despite the sale of assets and business segments we continue to have liquidity problems and substantially all of our assets are encumbered. Although we previously sold investment assets to generate cash or to minimize our obligations related to future funding requirements, we continue to face a significant shortage of liquid assets. Substantially all of our assets are encumbered, which limits our ability to increase our liquidity by selling assets or incurring additional indebtedness. We may need to sell assets into unfavorable markets or at distressed prices. As a result of our reductions in revenues, we may continue to incur significant operating losses. Although we have substantially reduced our operating expenses and much of our debt, we continue to be obligated on debt we incurred when we were a much larger company. Our revenues may not be sufficient to pay our current operating expenses and debt service and we may continue to incur significant operating losses. This could force us to continue to sell assets into difficult market conditions. Most of our lenders have the right to require us to repay what we have borrowed or could require us to post additional collateral. We have $61.3 million of debt at December 31, 2010 that had matured, but our lenders have provided forbearance agreements until June 30, 2011. In addition, we have $169.2 million of debt that has a reduced interest pay rate, currently 0.75%. This rate is due to increase, beginning in the first quarter of 2012, to a weighted average rate of approximately 8.5%. We do not currently have the liquidity to meet these payments. To the extent these arrangements are not extended or modified these lenders have the right to require us to repay the debt in full or post additional collateral. Also, we are subject to the constant possibility that one or more of our lenders will assert that the current market value of the assets that secure their loans (which in most instances our lenders determine) has fallen below required levels and that we must either post additional collateral or reduce the amount of our borrowings. If we were forced to sell all our pledged assets, the total sales price might not be sufficient to enable us to repay all our borrowings. There is a significant possibility that if our lenders forced us to sell the assets we have pledged as collateral into the current market, the total sale proceeds would not equal our total secured borrowings. If that occurred, we would not be able to repay all of our secured borrowings and we would not be able to repay any of our unsecured borrowings. We are facing defaults and delinquencies with respect to many of the debt instruments we hold. We hold various types of debt instruments. Our largest holding is of tax-exempt bonds relating to affordable housing developments. We also hold other types of tax-exempt and taxable bonds. The delinquency rate (the unpaid principal balance of bonds on non-accrual compared to our total bond portfolio’s unpaid principal balance) at December 31, 2010, with regard to our bonds is 10.1%, or $135.9 million. Additionally, although bonds in our portfolio have operated with debt service coverage ratios (the trailing 12-month property level net operating income divided by annual property level debt service) below 1.0x for extended periods of time without defaulting, approximately $350.0 million or 32% of the performing mortgage revenue bond portfolio had a debt service coverage ratio of less than 1.0x at December 31, 2010, of which approximately $175 million or 16% is below a 0.9x debt service coverage ratio. The delinquency rate with regard to most of the other types of debt instruments, primarily loans, that we hold, is 44.8%, or $58.9 million, at December 31, 2010. Even in instances in which developers guaranteed loans secured by projects they developed, many of the developers appear to be having financial problems that cast doubt on their ability to fulfill their guarantees if they are called upon to do so. We have reduced the carrying value of our defaulted assets, but the values realized could be even less if foreclosures were required or if our borrowers filed for bankruptcy protection. Increases in interest rates may adversely affect the value of our bonds and increase our borrowing costs. The Company has exposure to changes in interest rates because all of its investments in bonds pay a fixed rate of interest, while substantially all of the Company’s bond related debt is variable rate. A significant portion of the Company’s variable rate exposure is not hedged by interest rate swaps or caps and the Company does not have the credit standing to enter into any new interest rate swaps and has limited liquidity to purchase any new interest rate caps. A rise in interest rates or an increase in credit spreads could cause the value of certain bond investments to decline, increase the Company’s borrowing costs and make it ineffective for the Company to securitize its bonds. We do not, and cannot, fully hedge against interest rate risks. Significant portions of the money we use to make investments are borrowed under arrangements that bear interest at floating rates. Therefore, an increase in prevailing interest rates could make it substantially more expensive for us to continue to hold investments, while at the same time reducing the prices at which we could dispose of those investments. We do not fully hedge our exposure to changes in interest rates and so we are exposed to the risks of unfavorable changes in interest rates beyond our hedging activities. 12 We hedge our exposure to interest rate changes in a variety of ways. However, our hedges normally have significantly shorter lives than the interest rate sensitive instruments in which we invest. Further, we do not, and frequently cannot, hedge against all the interest rate risks that may affect us. Also, hedges do not always work as we expect them to. Therefore, we are to an extent exposed to risks that changes in interest rates will negatively affect the value of our assets. We do not have the credit standing to enter into any new interest rate swaps and we have limited liquidity to purchase any new interest rate caps. As a result, we may not able to obtain such hedges even if they are generally available in the marketplace. Our bonds are illiquid and may be difficult to sell at fair value. Substantially all of the Company’s bond investments are illiquid, which could prevent sales at favorable terms and make it difficult to value the bond portfolio. Our bond investments are unrated and unenhanced and, as a consequence, the purchasers of the Company’s bonds are generally limited to accredited investors and qualified institutional buyers, which results in a limited trading market. This lack of liquidity complicates how the Company determines the fair value of its bonds as there is limited information on trades of comparable bonds. Therefore, there is a risk that if the Company needs to sell bonds the price it is able to realize may be lower than the carrying value (i.e., fair value) of such bonds. Such differences could be material to our results of operations and financial condition. Substantially all of our taxable loans are illiquid, which could prevent us from consummating sales on favorable terms and makes it difficult for us accurately to value our investment portfolio. There is no regular trading market for most of our taxable loans. This could result in a serious lack of liquidity, particularly during weak markets, such as those that have prevailed for the past three years. The lack of liquidity could seriously adversely affect the price for which we could sell our taxable investments if necessary. Our bonds are all in securitization trusts or serve as collateral for securitization trusts and could be the subject of a forced sale. At December 31, 2010, substantially all of the Company’s bond investments were either in securitization trusts or pledged as collateral for securitization programs, notes payable or other debt. In the event a securitization trust cannot meet its obligations, all or a portion of bonds held by or pledged to the trust may be sold to satisfy the obligations to the holders of the senior interests. In the event bonds are liquidated, no payment will be made to the Company except to the extent that the sales price received for the bond exceeds the amounts due on the senior obligations of the trust. In addition, if the value of the bond investments within the securitization trusts or pledged as additional collateral decreases, the Company may be required to post cash or additional investments as collateral for such programs. In the event the Company has insufficient liquidity or unencumbered investments to satisfy these collateral requirements, certain bonds within the securitization trusts may be liquidated by the third-party credit enhancer to reduce the collateral requirement. In such cases, the Company would lose the cash flow from the bonds and its ownership interest in them. If a significant number of bonds were liquidated, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We depend on the availability of renewable credit enhancement and liquidity facilities for our securitization trusts. Under GAAP, the senior interests we sell in the securitization trusts we sponsor are treated as bond related debt. A substantial portion of this bond related debt is subject to third party credit enhancement agreements and liquidity facilities that mature prior to the time that the underlying bonds in the trusts mature or are expected to be redeemed. If the Company were unable to renew or replace its third party credit enhancement and liquidity facilities, the Company might not be able to extend or refinance its bond related debt. In that instance, the Company could be subject to bond liquidations to satisfy the claims of the holders of the senior interests. If the Company were unable to extend or refinance its non-bond related debt, whether through the extension or replacement of third party credit enhancement and liquidity facilities or through the placement of bond related debt without the benefit of third party credit enhancement and liquidity facilities, the Company could experience higher bond related debt costs. If a significant number of bonds were liquidated or if bond financing costs increased significantly, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The Company’s senior interests and debt owed to securitization trust balance was $748.1 million at December 31, 2010, of which $71.3 million and $598.3 million have maturing credit enhancement and liquidity facilities in 2011 and 2013, respectively. There are restrictions on the ability of our primary bond subsidiary to make distributions to us. Substantially all of the Company’s bond investments are held by MuniMae TE Bond Subsidiary, LLC (“TEB”), a 100% subsidiary of the Company. Under TEB’s operating agreement with its preferred shareholders, there are covenants related to the type of assets in which TEB can invest, the incurrence of leverage, limitations on issuance of additional preferred equity interests, limitations on cash distributions to MuniMae and certain requirements in the event of merger, sale or consolidation. At December 31, 2010: · TEB’s leverage ratio was 59.9%, which was below the incurrence limit of 60%; · TEB’s liquidation preference ratios were at amounts that would restrict it from raising additional preferred equity on parity with the existing preferred shares outstanding; and 13 · TEB’s ability to distribute cash to MuniMae is limited to Distributable Cash Flows (TEB’s net income adjusted to exclude the impact of non-cash items) and TEB does not have the ability to make redemptions of common stock or distributions to MuniMae other than from Distributable Cash Flows (“Restricted Payments”) because the current liquidation preference ratios prohibit it. We have been unable to remarket our bond subsidiary’s preferred shares, which adversely affects our subsidiary’s ability to make distributions to us. Beginning in June 2009, TEB has been unable to conduct successful remarketings of its mandatorily redeemable and perpetual preferred shares. This has caused the distributions owed to the TEB preferred shareholders to increase, which has resulted in a reduction to the amount of TEB income that can be distributed to the Company. If TEB continues to be unsuccessful with future remarketings, TEB could experience additional increases in payments to its preferred share distributions, which would result in further reductions to its common distributions to the Company and those changes could be material. Our bond subsidiary stock is pledged as collateral and we are subject to restrictions governing how we use our subsidiary’s cash flow. All of TEB’s common stock is pledged by the Company to a creditor to support collateral requirements related to certain debt and derivative agreements. On December 8, 2010, we entered into a forbearance agreement with this creditor that requires us to set aside a portion of the common distributions we receive from TEB. The set aside equals 50% of common distributions, less $0.8 million, for quarterly distributions beginning in the fourth quarter of 2010 and continuing through the third quarter of 2011. For quarterly distributions beginning in the fourth quarter of 2011 and continuing until TEB is in compliance with both its leverage ratio and liquidation preference ratios, the set-aside is equal to 50% of common distributions. Once TEB is in compliance with its leverage ratio and liquidation preference ratios there will be no restrictions on common distributions. The set-aside is anticipated to be utilized by the Company to repurchase and retire various perpetual and mandatorily redeemable preferred stock issued by TEB. While such purchases will benefit us by reducing our obligations senior to TEB’s common stock we may not be able to access the set-aside funds for other Company purposes which would exacerbate our liquidity issues. TEB’s common stock is wholly owned by MuniMae TEI Holdings, LLC (“TEI”), which is ultimately wholly owned by MuniMae. Any unrestricted distributions by TEB will be remitted to TEI and TEI’s ability to remit cash to MuniMae for liquidity needs outside of TEI may be restricted due to minimum liquidity and net worth requirements related to a TEI debt agreement. The most restrictive covenant, a net worth requirement, requires TEI to maintain a minimum net worth of $125 million. At December 31, 2010, TEI’s net worth was $169.7 million. Economic conditions adversely affecting the real estate market have had a material adverse effect on us. Because the assets we own and manage are directly or indirectly secured by multifamily residential properties and other commercial real estate, the value of our investments is adversely affected (and those effects may be substantial) by macroeconomic conditions or other factors that adversely affect the real estate market generally, or the market for multifamily real estate in particular, either nationally or in regions in which we have or manage significant investments. These possible negative factors (many of which have recently occurred) include, among others: · high levels of unemployment and other adverse economic conditions, regionally or nationally; · decreased occupancy and rent levels due to supply and demand imbalances; · changes in interest rates that affect the value of the debt instruments or the value of the real estate that secures the debt instruments that we own, or that affect the availability of attractive investment opportunities; and · lack of mortgage financing and reduced availability of mortgage financing, each of which can affect the prices for which real estate can be sold or even the ability to sell real estate at any acceptable price. The market value, availability or cost of our investments and investment opportunities could be adversely affected by changes in prevailing interest rates. Most of the investments we hold or manage are debt instruments or are similar to debt instruments. The value of those investments can be severely affected by changes in prevailing interest rates. In particular, a significant increase in prevailing interest rates for taxable or tax-exempt debt instruments substantially reduces the market value of investments we hold. In addition, it could reduce the availability of new investment opportunities and increase the competition for those investments. We can lose money on the transactions we undertake to hedge against losses due to interest rate movements. Sometimes we hedge against interest rate movements by purchasing options, but in many instances, we have hedged against increases in interest rates, which generally cause declines in the value of our debt instruments, by entering into transactions that are expected to increase in value as interest rates rise. The risk of a loss in value if interest rates fall is the cost of the protection we receive by entering into these transactions. Further, the recent financial disruptions led to market anomalies where the value of swaps we had purchased to hedge against a decline in the value of a portfolio of tax-exempt bonds we held, fell at the same time the value of the tax-exempt bonds declined. While this was a very unusual situation, it reflects the fact that many hedges involve a degree of risk themselves. 14 The value of our tax-exempt investments could be adversely affected by changes in government tax incentive programs. There is no guarantee that the government will not pass legislation that could adversely affect the value of our tax-exempt bonds. The government could make changes in the tax laws that, while not directly affecting our tax-exempt bonds, could make them less valuable to investors. For example, if the federal government were to lower marginal federal income tax rates, our bonds would likely decline in value. Congress could also pass laws that make competing investments more attractive than tax-exempt bonds, which would also make our bonds less valuable. A discussion of U.S. federal tax considerations that affect us and our shareholders appears in Item 1. Business – “Federal Income Tax Considerations.” Most of our assets are pledged as collateral for borrowings that could go into default causing us to suffer significant losses. Substantially all of our assets are encumbered. Most of our secured debt that is not part of a bond securitization transaction has matured, and most of our lenders could have required us to repay the indebtedness. If our secured lenders had required us to repay the indebtedness and we had been unable to do so (which, in view of recent market conditions, would likely have been the case with regard to many of our borrowings), the lenders would have been able to liquidate the assets that secure the indebtedness. If these lenders required us to repay all debt that is due, we would have to liquidate assets under difficult market conditions at amounts that would likely be insufficient to repay all such debt that is due resulting in bankruptcy or adverse consequences to us. We must be careful not to become subject to the Investment Company Act of 1940 because if we were subject to that Act, we could be required to sell substantial portions of our assets at a time when we might not otherwise want to do so, and we could incur significant losses as a result. We continuously monitor our activities to be sure we do not become subject to regulation as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. We are exempt from the Investment Company Act because of an exemption for companies that are “primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate.” If we were regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we would be subject to extensive regulation and restrictions relating to capital structure, dividends and a number of other matters. Among other things, we would not be able to borrow money. Therefore, if due to a change in our assets or in the value of particular assets, we were to become subject to the Investment Company Act, either we would have to restructure our assets so we would not be subject to that Act or we would have to change materially the way we do business. Either of those changes could require us to sell substantial portions of our assets at a time when we might not otherwise want to do so, and we could incur significant losses of value as a result. We continue to have material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting which substantially increases the cost of ensuring that there will not be misstatements in our financial statements. A material weakness in internal control over financial reporting means that there are deficiencies that present a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of a company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Because there have been, and continue to be, material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we have had to use means other than reliance on our internal control over financial reporting to prevent material misstatements in our financial statements. These alternative means have been very labor intensive and have contributed significantly to the high costs and delays we have incurred in preparing our financial statements. Further, while we believe these alternative means have been effective in allowing us to prepare the GAAP compliant financial statements contained in this Report, there will continue to be a risk of material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. We will continue to incur major costs in the preparation and audit of our financial statements, which could adversely affect our financial results. We are trying to develop sufficient accounting and finance capability and systems to be able to prepare our financial statements and perform a significant portion of our tax return preparation work ourselves instead of using outside consultants. However, in 2009 and 2010 we continued to incur higher than normal financial statement preparation and audit costs. Although we believe we can reduce these costs in 2011 and beyond, there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve such reductions. These financial statement preparation and audit costs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 15 The SEC staff has notified us that the SEC could take steps to de-register or suspend trading in our shares, either of which could have a material adverse effect on both the market value of and the ability to trade our shares. We have received correspondence from the SEC’s Division of Corporation Finance notifying us of the Company’s status as a non-current filer and advising the Company that the SEC could bring an administrative proceeding to revoke the Exchange Act registration of our common shares or could order the suspension of trading in our common shares. If the registration of our common shares is revoked or trading is suspended, our common shares would no longer be quoted on the Pink Sheets and the public trading of our common shares would effectively terminate. If there were no longer a public trading market for our shares, investors would find it difficult, if not impossible, to buy or sell common shares publicly or to obtain accurate quotations for prices at which common shares may be purchased or sold. As a result, the price of our shares would likely decline. The SEC staff previously inquired into the reasons for our restatements and if the SEC decided to take any substantial action against us it could adversely affect our business. After we announced in September 2006 that we would be restating our financial statements for 2005 and prior years, the Philadelphia Regional Office of the SEC informed us that it was conducting an informal inquiry concerning us and requested the voluntary production of documents and information concerning, among other things, the reasons for that restatement and for our prior restatement. We provided the requested documents and information and cooperated fully with the informal inquiry. The SEC staff has not taken any further action. We cannot provide any assurance that the SEC will not take any action in light of our restatement or our filing delinquencies and deficiencies, including the lack of filing quarterly information or management not completing its assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for any of the periods presented in this Report. Any substantial action against us by the SEC could adversely affect our business. The book value of our assets is not necessarily the amount for which they could be sold at any point in time, and if we currently were forced to sell significant assets, we probably would not realize their full book value. Our assets include a variety of bonds, loans and other debt instruments. Under GAAP, in most instances these bonds, loans and other debt instruments are recorded at their fair value on each balance sheet date. In other instances, they are carried at amortized cost (i.e., unpaid principal balances less any deferred costs or fees) unless we determine that they are impaired in which case the book values of those assets are reserved against or written down to their estimated fair values. The estimated fair values of the assets are determined using quoted market prices, if available, or with discounted cash flow models considering expected cash flows and market yields. The prices for which we can sell particular bonds, loans or other debt instruments at a point in time are affected by current market conditions at that time. As discussed under Item 1A. Risk Factors – “Risks Related to Our Business,” under current market conditions, the prices for which we can sell the bonds, loans and other debt investments we own are lower, often significantly, than the prices for which they could be sold under normal market conditions. We have provided guarantees with respect to certain of the tax credit equity funds that we sponsored, and if we were to become obligated to perform on those guarantees our financial condition and results of operation could suffer. Although we have sold most of our low income housing tax credit business, we guaranteed availability of tax benefits and minimum returns on investment to investors in some of the tax credit equity funds that we sponsored. We have not sold our interest in those funds and in some cases where we have sold our interest in the funds we have indemnified the purchaser from investor claims related to guarantees on these funds. We continue to be obligated on our guarantees to the investors (or purchasers) in these funds and we could be required to make substantial payments with regard to these guarantees. The ability of investors in tax credit equity funds we sponsor to benefit from low income housing tax credits requires that the partnerships in which those funds invest operate affordable housing properties in compliance with a number of requirements in the Code and the Regulations under it. Failure to comply continuously with these requirements throughout a 15-year recapture period could result in loss of the right to those low income housing tax credits, including recapture of credits that were already taken, potentially creating liability under our guarantees. Similarly, although we sold most of our renewable energy business, we guaranteed the availability of tax benefits and a minimum yield to investors in some of the solar funds we sponsored. We have not sold our interest in these funds and we continue to be obligated on our guarantees to the investors in those funds. Among other things we must continue to own and operate the facility through the credit recapture period. If we did not comply with these requirements there would be a recapture of credits, potentially creating liability under our guarantees. If we were to become obligated to perform on our tax credit or solar fund guarantees our financial condition and results of operation would suffer. A portion of our market rate investments are subordinated or are otherwise junior in right of payment to other obligations and if our borrowers are unable to make all required payments, we may suffer losses. When we hold junior or subordinated debt instruments, if the borrower is unable or fails to make all of its required payments, we will not be paid until all the senior securities have been paid in full. Further, in most instances we cannot, without the consent of the senior holders, take actions that might protect our interests. That can further reduce the likelihood of our receiving the full sum due to us if a borrower becomes insolvent. At December 31, 2010, we had bond and loan investments with a carrying value of $47.5 million, which were subordinate to more senior interests. 16 In the sale of our Agency Lending business, we agreed to share losses (up to specified levels) on loans that we underwrote and sold to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Prior to the sale of our Agency Lending business, we participated in the Fannie Mae DUS and Freddie Mac Program Plus programs. The terms of our participation required that we assume responsibility for a portion of any loss that may result from borrower defaults including foreclosure, based on Fannie Mae’s and Freddie Mac's loss sharing formulas. Under the Fannie Mae DUS program, we were generally responsible for the first 5% of the unpaid principal balance and 25% of any additional losses with a maximum cap of 20% of the original principal balance. Certain loans have a maximum cap of 30% and 40% and different loss sharing percentages. Under the Freddie Mac Program Plus program, we were generally responsible for the first 8% of the unpaid principal balance. Under the agreement by which we sold this business we agreed to reimburse the purchaser up to $30 million for loss sharing losses on loans acquired from us for the first four years after the sale or May 2013. Losses under this agreement are to be paid by reducing the par amount of preferred shares we received as part of the sale price of the business. At December 31, 2010 reductions totaled $1.0 million. We also have a $2.3 million cash risk of loss on other loans sold in this transaction of which $1.2 million has been incurred and paid. Although our losses to date under these guarantees have been minimal, that may not always be the case and a material increase in these losses could have a negative impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Shares Our Board can issue an unlimited number of common or preferred shares, which could reduce our book value per common share and earnings per common share and the cash or other assets available for distribution per common share upon liquidation or otherwise. Under our Operating Agreement, our Board of Directors can authorize, without any requirement of shareholder approval, the issuance of an unlimited number of common shares. Although New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) rules previously imposed some limitations on our ability to issue shares without shareholder approval, our shares are not currently listed on the NYSE. Issuances of common shares could dilute the book value or the net income per common share or the cash per share available for distribution to common shareholders. Our Board can also authorize, without any requirement of shareholder approval, the issuance of an unlimited number of shares with preferences over the common shares as to dividends, distributions on liquidation and other matters, other than voting. This could reduce the book value and net earnings that would be allocable to our common shares and the cash or other assets that are available for distribution to our common shareholders either periodically or upon our liquidation. We have stopped paying dividends and it is unlikely we will resume paying them in the foreseeable future. In January 2008 in response to deteriorating market conditions and our increasing costs, our Board reduced the dividend for fourth quarter 2007 to $0.33 from $0.53 for third quarter 2007. Our Board has not declared any dividend since then. Our Board considers a number of factors in deciding whether we should pay a dividend for a quarter. However, in view of the difficulty we are having generating the cash we need for our operations and to satisfy our lenders, it is unlikely that we will pay a dividend in the foreseeable future. It is possible that we will never resume the payment of dividends. Our shareholders may be taxed on their respective shares of our taxable income, even if we do not make distributions to them. We are a limited liability company, not a corporation, and we have elected to be taxed as though we were a partnership. Because of that, our taxable income and loss, and our other tax attributes (including the tax-exempt nature of some of the interest we receive) are treated, at least for U.S. federal income tax purposes, as the taxable income or loss and other tax attributes, of our shareholders. That avoids the double tax to which corporations and their shareholders usually are subject, and enables our shareholders to benefit from the fact that a portion of our income is exempt from federal income tax. However, if we have taxable income in excess of the sums we are able to distribute to our shareholders, our shareholders will be taxed on sums they do not receive, since under the rules of partnership taxation our shareholders are taxed based on our taxable income and not on our distributions. In addition, much of our tax-exempt income is subject to the alternative minimum tax (“AMT”) for federal income tax purposes and shareholders who are subject to the AMT could be subject to tax on such income even if we do not distribute it. In 2010, although we had losses for financial accounting purposes and we passed through to our shareholders for tax purposes capital losses due to bond sales and closing out of derivative positions, we also passed through to our shareholders tax-exempt interest income and some taxable interest income. In addition, as a result of the rules applicable to partnership taxation, shareholders who have a low basis in our shares may have capital gains allocated to them even when the Company itself had a capital loss. 17 One of our shareholders has the right to designate one, and in some circumstances two, of our directors, which is a right that is not available to any other of our shareholders. Under our organizational documents (since our inception), Shelter Development Holdings, Inc., which is controlled by Mark Joseph, the Chairman of our Board, or its successor has the right to appoint one of our directors, or, if we have more than 10 directors, it has the right to appoint two of our directors. This right is not available to any other of our shareholders. Provisions of our Operating Agreement may discourage attempts to acquire us. Our Operating Agreement contains at least three groups of provisions that could have the effect of discouraging people from trying to acquire control of us. Those provisions are: · If any person or group, other than Shelter Development Holdings, Inc., SCA Tax-Exempt Fund, MME I Corporation, MME II Corporation or their affiliates, acquires 10% or more of our shares, that person or group cannot, with a very limited exception, (1) engage in a business combination with us (including an acquisition from us of more than 10% of our assets or more than 5% of our shares) within five years after the person or group acquires the 10% or greater interest, unless our Board of Directors approved the business combination or approved the acquisition of a 10% or greater interest in us before it took place, or the business combination is approved by two-thirds of the members of our Board and holders of two-thirds of the shares that are not owned by the person or group that owns the 10% or greater interest; or (2) engage in a business combination with us until more than five years after the person or group acquires the 10% or greater interest, unless the business combination is recommended by our Board of Directors and approved by holders of 80% of our shares or of two-thirds of the shares that are not owned by the person or group that owns the 10% or greater interest. · If any person or group makes an acquisition of our shares that causes the person or group to be able to exercise between one-fifth and one-third of all voting power of our shares, between one-third and a majority of all voting power of our shares, or a majority or more of all voting power of our shares, the acquired shares will lose their voting power, except to the extent approved at a meeting by the vote of two-thirds of the shares not owned by the person or group, and we will have the right to redeem, for their fair market value, any of the acquired shares for which the shareholders do not approve voting rights. · One third of our directors (except one, or in some circumstances two, directors designated by Shelter Development Holdings, Inc.) are elected each year to three-year terms. That could delay the time when somebody who acquires voting control of us could elect a majority of our directors. The above provisions could deprive our shareholders of opportunities that might be attractive to many of them. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 