Risk Factors." Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise such statements to reflect new circumstances or unanticipated events as they occur. PART I Item 1. BUSINESS INTRODUCTION AltiGen Communications, Inc. (NASDAQ: ATGN) is a pioneer and market leader in Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) telephone systems and Unified Communications solutions. We design and manufacture advanced phone systems and call center products that use both the Internet and the public telephone network. AltiGen Communications, or AltiGen, was founded by current CEO Gilbert Hu in 1994, and the first products began shipping in 1996. Our telephony products are primarily sold to small-to-medium sized businesses, multi-site businesses, corporate branch offices, call centers, credit unions and community banks. AltiGen's products enable an array of applications like VoIP phones and servers, voicemail, call recording, call activity reporting, and mobility solutions that take advantage of the convergence of voice and data communications to achieve cost reduction. Our systems are designed with an open architecture and are built on an industry standard platform. This adherence to widely-used standards allows our products to integrate with and leverage a company's existing technology investment. AltiGen's hardware and software products are available from independent authorized resellers and strategic partners. AltiGen's family of telephony solutions has been recognized for excellence with more than 40 industry awards since 1996. We generated net revenue of $17.4 million with a net loss of $4.7 million during fiscal year 2009. As of September 30, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of $60.7 million. Net cash used in operating activities was $2.3 million in fiscal year 2009. Our principal executive office is located at 410 East Plumeria Drive, San Jose, California 95134. Our telephone number is (408) 597-9000. We were incorporated in California in May 1994, and we reincorporated into Delaware in June 1999. We maintain an Internet website at http://www.altigen.com. Our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and certain of our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) are available through the Investor Relations section of our website. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and other required filings and amendments to these filings are available on the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov, which can be reached from the Investor Relations section of our website. In addition, you may read and copy any 1 Table of Contents material we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. INDUSTRY BACKGROUND We focus our sales efforts on medium and enterprise sized businesses, multi-site businesses, corporate branch offices, and call centers. Convergence of Voice and Data Traditionally, businesses have supported two separate, incompatible networks to handle their communications needs. The first network has been the traditional telephone network, which relies on a technology called "circuit-switching." A circuit-switched network establishes and maintains a dedicated (i.e. not shared) line between calling parties for the duration of a call. The second type of network on which businesses have traditionally relied is a "packet-switched" network, such as an internal local area network or an external network, like the Internet, where voice, video, images or data is divided into small Internet protocol packets of information for transmission that are simultaneously combined with other unrelated packets of information and routed to a final destination where this process is reversed. Packet-switched networks are more efficient than the traditional circuit-switched telephone network, because network paths are not dedicated to a single user, but instead are available to be shared by all users. As a result, network capacity is allocated more efficiently. It is commonplace for networks installed today to be able to support both voice and data usage with Internet protocol packet-switching. Most telecommunications systems do not address the needs of businesses that need to transmit voice communications over both traditional telephone networks and packet-switching networks. For example, businesses may wish to route internal calls over their existing voice network and route calls between offices over packet-switched networks, all using the same telecommunications system. We believe a significant opportunity exists to provide medium and enterprise sized businesses with an integrated phone system that delivers the benefits of integrated, multi-function telecommunications systems using Internet protocol packet switching networks as well as traditional circuit-switched telephone networks. THE ALTIGEN PRODUCT OFFERING AltiGen's VoIP phone systems are designed with an open architecture, built on industry standard Intel-based servers, Session Initiation Protocol ("SIP") based platform, and Microsoft Windows-based applications. This adherence to widely-used standards allows our solutions to both integrate with and leverage a company's existing technology investment. AltiGen's award winning, integrated IP applications suite provides customers with a complete business communications solution. Voicemail, Unified Messaging, Automatic Call Distribution, Call Recording, Call Activity Reporting, and Mobility solutions take advantage of the convergence of voice and data communications to achieve superior business results. The AltiGen phone systems work with digital, analog and internet protocol trunks, and internet protocol and analog telephone extensions. The systems can be configured with digital, analog or VoIP, or a combination of the three. By allowing the customer to choose what best fits their current and future requirement, we provide a practical and cost effective solution to future growth. Each system includes a comprehensive voicemail system with over 2,500 hours of storage, 255 auto attendant menus with unlimited levels, automatic call distribution, call detail reporting, call recording on demand, meet-me conference bridges, and a standard PBX (Private Branch Exchange) functionality. A PBX is a telephone system within an enterprise that switches calls between enterprise users on local lines while allowing all users to share a certain number of external telephone lines. Additionally, the 2 Table of Contents system provides intuitive and easy to use system administration software to allow for customer self-administration or remote administration by our authorized reseller partners. Individual systems can be affordably scaled to customer needs, and multiple systems may be networked together for greater expansion. These networked systems can be at a single site, a campus environment or multiple locations throughout the world using Internet protocol technology to link them. AltiGen phone systems allow affordable entry point while maintaining logical system growth. For customers with more advanced requirements, we provide AltiContact Manager. The product is available as a software upgrade to an existing MAXCommunications Server System (MAXCS System). For additional information regarding MAXCS System, see the section entitled "Product." This product is capable of skills-based routing, priority queuing, centralized call recording and advanced monitoring and reporting. This capability may be added on a per agent/supervisor basis as the customer grows. This allows a smaller business or branch office to enjoy the same capability as a large professional call center organization. If a customer has more than one location, call center calls can automatically be routed to other locations based on conditions the customer chooses. Key features of our phone systems include: •Scalability. AltiGen's software based MAXCS 6.0 softswitch architecture was designed to scale in both size and capability to the meet the evolving needs of the small and medium-sized business (SMB) market. As a software-based system, AltiGen can rapidly deploy new features to our customers without requiring expensive hardware upgrades. •Native Microsoft Exchange Server Integration. MAXCS 6.0 fully supports native integration into Microsoft Exchange Server 2007 to unlock the embedded Unified Messaging capabilities of Exchange. As the "Voice of Microsoft Exchange", mutual Microsoft and AltiGen customers now have voice access to e-mails, calendar events, and personal and global company contact information via Text-to-Speech services. •Measurable Information to Ensure Best Business Practices. We provide a complete view into individual and group performance. The amount, type and duration of calls can be tracked and analyzed. An individual can record a call for later review, or a company can centrally record all or a percentage of calls for quality control. •Reduced Administration Costs. Our easy to use self administration software allows customers to manage their own telephone system. This reduces or eliminates ongoing operating cost of any business telephone system typically referred to as adds, moves and changes. AltiGen phone systems allow administrators to perform many of these tasks on site or remotely without assistance from third parties. •Lower Toll Costs. By routing voice over data networks, our systems reduce toll charges associated with long-distance calls between locations. Using our products, businesses can send and receive voice communications over the Internet or a private data network. •Unified Company Locations. For companies with AltiGen systems in multiple locations, we provide a seamless dialing plan. Customers calling into one location can automatically be routed to the correct group or individual. This allows a multi-site business to operate under a unified dialing plan and allows users in different sites to operate as if they were supported by a single system rather than an individual system for each location. •Survivability Options. Our systems allow practical and cost efficient options for disaster recovery planning. Redundant system hard drives allow all voicemail and configuration information to be copied to a spare hard drive. The system allows nightly backup to another network drive. If weather or other problems prevent employees from reaching the office, ExtensionAnywhere™, 3 Table of Contents One Number Access and VoIP telephones can be utilized to keep operations running. We provide multiple options based upon what best fits the customer environment. •Innovative Desktop Productivity Software. Our systems provide desktop software applications to increase user productivity. Call control, changes in extension configuration and the ability to view and manage voicemail messages improve an employee's ability to process calls. In addition, we provide software for group supervisors, agents, system administrators and operators. Applications are centrally upgraded from the phone system to allow for quick and efficient deployment. •Integration with Customer Relationship Management Software. The MAXCommunicator Agent Edition and MAXCommunicator desktop interface provide automatic contact record retrieval and "screen pops" of contact records to a user's desktop. Microsoft Outlook users can type in a name to automatically retrieve telephone numbers and click and dial from an integrated contact record directory. We provide built-in integration with other Microsoft software applications like Microsoft Outlook and Microsoft Exchange. •Ease of Installation, Use and Maintenance. AltiGen phone systems allow easy installation and system maintenance. Administrators can manage call routing, extension management, voice messaging, email and Internet features of our products through a single AltiWare administrator interface. By using industry standards we believe that AltiGen systems make it easier for resellers and end-user customers to implement and maintain systems. •Improved Customer Service Capabilities. AltiGen phone systems provide integrated call center functionality. For more advanced call center or centralized call recording requirements, we offer the AltiContact Manager software application. Both contact center applications are designed to enhance our customers' communications with their customers by employing comprehensive contact center and call center routing, reporting and recording technologies. •Integrated Centralized Call Recording. Voice calls can be recorded on demand by employees, agents and supervisors or automatically centrally recorded by the phone system. Traditional phone systems require a separate system to be tied to a PBX to centrally record calls. Modular feature licensing allows businesses to add capabilities on a per-feature or per-user basis offering a reduced up-front investment. •True Employee Mobility. We provide flexible and useable mobility options while retaining accountability. We provide several powerful options. ExtensionAnywhere™ allows any phone with a direct telephone number to be enabled as a live extension on the system. Call handling, call transfer, conferencing and voicemail capability are retained. Our "One Number Access" feature allows the system to search and then transfer a call at up to four numbers. For remote employees, we offer a VoIP telephone to connect to an employee's high speed Internet access. Our mobility options are flexible and simple to use. 4 Table of Contents PRODUCTS The following is a list of our products that are material to our current operations from a financial standpoint: Product Description MAXCS MAXCS server software consists of a comprehensive suite of software applications to provide a high value, all-in-one solution. The systems include software and licensing necessary to support analog and VoIP telephones, operator software, and desktop call control software for each extension on the system. By providing a bundled approach, we maintain quality and reliability while providing for easy deployment. The platforms are scalable, and are packaged according to the size of the customer. AltiContact Manager AltiContact Manager is available as a software upgrade to an existing AltiGen phone system. This product is capable of skills-based routing, priority queuing, centralized call recording and advanced monitoring and reporting. This capability may be added on a per agent/supervisor basis as a company's needs grow. This allows a smaller business or branch office to enjoy the same capability as a larger organization with a professional call center. If a company has more than one location, calls to call centers can automatically be routed to other locations based on conditions the customer chooses. IP720 Voice over IP Telephone The IP720 is a fully featured SIP-compatible IP telephone designed to empower the user. Bringing stylish form and functionality to the desktop, the IP720 makes sophisticated features simple and intuitive to use. Users have single button access to voicemail, activity/presence selection, voicemail greeting selections, call recording, call conferencing, call transferring, and even placing calls to employees in other countries. The IP720 has integrated Power over Ethernet and Gigabit Ethernet support. IP710 Voice over IP Telephone The IP710 is a fully featured SIP-compatible, IP telephone designed to empower the user. Bringing stylish form and functionality to the desktop, the IP710 makes sophisticated features simple and intuitive to use. Users have single button access to voicemail, activity/presence selection, voicemail greeting selections, call recording, call conferencing, call transferring, and even placing calls to employees in other countries. Our IP710 Telephone was recognized in Internet Telephony Magazine as Product of Year for 2005. In the first quarter of fiscal year 2010, the IP710 is expected to reach end-of-life cycle and will be replaced by the IP720. IP705 Voice over IP Telephone The IP705 provides a subset of the IP710 VoIP telephone's features while offering the same level of voice quality at a reduced price. The IP705 was recognized as a 2006 Product of the Year by Internet Telephony Magazine. 5 Table of Contents Product Description MAXCommunicator MAXCommunicator is a Windows-based desktop application that provides call control and visual voice mail management to the desktop. It allows users to receive and place calls, listen to voicemail messages, identify the caller phone number and manage extension configuration. MAXCommunicator is standard with all AltiGen systems. MAXCommunicator, Agent Edition MAXCommunicator, Agent Edition is a Windows-based desktop application to bring call control and workgroup information to call center agents. Users can view a call queue, monitor work group status, check caller identification, measure performance, review log-on history, receive and place calls and listen to and manage voicemail messages. MAXCommunicator, Supervisor Edition MAXCommunicator, Supervisor Edition is a Windows-based desktop application for call center supervisors. The application allows a call center or workgroup supervisor to effectively manage a workgroup. MAXCommunicator, Supervisor Edition provides four major real time module views for workgroup management: agent status, agent statistics, group statistics, and queue status with a quality of services capability. MAXCommunicator, Supervisor Edition allows coaching, silent monitoring of agents with barge-in call participation and call recording functionality. Triton IP Board The Triton IP Board is a microprocessor-controlled board supporting VoIP communications. This allows voice conversations to be carried over public and private data networks that support Internet protocol. The Triton IP Board is a 12-port board that can be software configured to 30 ports. The Triton IP Board can be used for Internet protocol trunks connecting multiple networked MAXCS systems or to support VoIP telephone extensions and VoIP agent extensions. Triton T1, E1, T1/PRI Board The Triton T1, E1, T1/PRI Board is a microprocessor-controlled board that allows MAXCS systems to connect to T1, E1 or T1/PRI digital high-capacity central office telephone lines. This board can be configured with software to support provisioning for T1, E1 or T1/PRI communication protocols. Triton Trunk Board The Triton Trunk Board is 12 port, microprocessor-controlled board that allows MAXCS systems to connect to analog central office telephone lines. This allows outbound and inbound calls to be carried over traditional analog central office telephone lines. Triton Extension Board The Triton Extension Board is a 12 port, microprocessor-controlled board that allows MAXCS systems to support 12 analog telephone extensions with each Triton Extension Board. Triton Conference Board The Triton Conference Board allows up to 30 simultaneous callers per conference and includes a scheduling application to control access and attendees. 6 Table of Contents Product Description MAX 4x4xT1 Access Board The MAX 4x4xT1 Access Board is a microprocessor-controlled board that allows the MAX1000 phone system to connect to four analog trunk lines, four analog telephone extensions, and one (1) T1/E1/PRI digital central office telephone line. MAX 4x8 Access Board The MAX 4x8 Access Board is a microprocessor-controlled board that allows the MAX1000 phone system to connect to four analog trunk lines and eight analog telephone extensions. MAX 8x4 Access Board The MAX 8x4 Access Board is a microprocessor-controlled board that allows the MAX1000 phone system to connect to eight analog trunk lines and four analog telephone extension. MAX 0x12 Access Board The MAX 0x12 Access Board is a microprocessor-controlled board that allows the MAX1000 phone system to connect twelve analog telephone extensions. AltiGen Hardware and Firmware We have developed a single base circuit board with high performance digital signal processing technology, which means that the circuit board has an integrated computer built on it that can run special, high-speed software programs, called firmware. Firmware can receive, send and modify digital information for communications with network services. Our digital signal processing boards, Triton and MAX are designed to allow us to create different circuit boards to meet many communication requirements by simply adding a few hardware and/or software components to the basic board. For example, the Triton digital signal processing board can become a T1, E1 or Integrated Services Digital Network communication circuit board or a circuit board supporting VoIP with simple changes in on-board software and, in some cases, new circuits. This modular design not only enables us to provide new capabilities, but we also believe that it enables our products to achieve a high degree of reliability and cost reduction since the underlying technology is consistent across our products. AltiGen Modular Software Our software products are based on modular software components similar to the concept described above for our hardware and firmware. The service provider layer of software is composed of separate software components, each of which communicates with a hardware circuit board within the AltiGen phone system. The middleware layer interacts with all the service providers in the system and manages their resources. This middleware layer communicates with the hardware and allows application programs to provide specific features. The application program layer consists of components that implement the application logic, such as voicemail and auto attendant menus. These applications do not depend on any particular hardware integration. We believe that the layered architectural structure of our MAXCS products provides important benefits: •New features can be developed without changing hardware. •Development time is generally shorter. •New hardware and software features can be added to installed systems. •Changing one component in the system does not require other components to be changed. 7 Table of Contents The following table sets forth percentages of net revenue by product type with respect to such revenue for the periods indicated: Fiscal Year Ended September 30, 2009 2008 2007 Hardware 71 % 86 % 91 % Software 13 % 14 % 9 % Service Support Plans(1) 16 % — — Total 100 % 100 % 100 % (1)In fiscal year 2008, revenue generated from these service support plans accounted for less than 1% of our total revenue. Our hardware revenue in the consolidated statements of operations includes service support revenue generated primarily from our service support plans starting in September 2007. We did not generate revenue from these service support plans in fiscal year 2007. MARKETING, SALES AND CUSTOMER SUPPORT Marketing Our marketing efforts currently focus on increasing demand for our products in the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific. We are working to increase market awareness of our technology and demand for our products for medium and enterprise sized businesses and call center markets through public relations, print, email and web campaigns. To assist our distributors, dealers and strategic partners, we provide market development funds, marketing tools and technical and sales training developed specifically for our products. We expect that these programs will allow us to leverage the expertise and contacts of the local and regional reseller channels to create strong lead generation. Sales In the United States, in fiscal year 2009, we added additional strategic account managers and business development personnel. In addition, we added new resellers and a distribution partner in the United Kingdom and Italy. We are organized and operate as two operating segments, the Americas and International. The Americas segment is comprised of the United States, Canada, Mexico, Central America and the Caribbean. The International segment is comprised of China, the United Kingdom, Italy and Holland. Our two geographical segments both sell the same products to the same types of customers. The following table sets forth percentages of net revenue by geographic region with respect to such revenue for the periods indicated: Fiscal Year Ended September 30, 2009 2008 2007 Americas 86 % 87 % 90 % International 14 % 13 % 10 % Total 100 % 100 % 100 % 8 Table of Contents The following table sets forth a measure of profit or loss for each operating segment for the periods indicated (in thousands): Fiscal Year Ended September 30, 2009 2008 2007 Americas $ (3 ) $ (211 ) $ (194 ) International $ (4,707 ) $ (3,726 ) $ (742 ) Total $ (4,710 ) $ (3,937 ) $ (936 ) The following table sets forth the total assets for each operating segment as of the periods indicated (in thousands): Fiscal Year Ended September 30, 2009 2008 2007 Americas $ 8,060 $ 11,438 $ 13,450 International $ 3,271 $ 3,338 $ 1,800 Total $ 11,331 $ 14,776 $ 15,250 We currently have sales and support staff in more than 10 locations in the United States. Our inside sales group answers incoming calls from end users and refers new leads to a qualified dealer near each end user's location. The inside sales group is also responsible for account management of our smaller resellers. Our outside sales force, which is primarily based in the Americas, includes regional sales managers and technology solutions managers who work with our larger resellers and recruit new reseller partners. In fiscal year 2009, we continued our expansion to a more scalable reseller community by signing on an increasing number of resellers that currently sell traditional and Internet protocol telephone systems manufactured by companies such as Avaya Communications (Avaya) and Mitel Networks Corporation. Customers Our customers are primarily end-users, resellers and distributors. We have distribution agreements with Altisys Communications, Inc., Synnex Corporation and Jenne Distributors, Inc., in the Americas. Our agreements with Altisys and Synnex have initial terms of one year and our agreement with Jenne had an initial term of two years. Each of these agreements are renewed automatically for additional one year terms, provided that each party shall have the right to terminate the agreement for convenience upon ninety (90) days' written notice prior to the end of the initial term or any subsequent term of the agreement. In addition, our agreements with Altisys, Synnex and Jenne also provide for termination, with or without cause and without penalty, by either party upon 30 days' written notice to the other party or upon insolvency or bankruptcy. For a period of 60 days' following termination of the agreement, Altisys, Synnex and Jenne may distribute any products in their possession at the time of termination or, at their option, return any products to us that are in their inventories. Upon termination of the distribution agreement, all outstanding invoices for the products will become due and payable within 30 days' of the termination. 9 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our net revenue by customers that individually accounted for more than 10% of our revenue for the periods indicated: Fiscal Year Ended September 30, 2009 2008 2007 Synnex 30 % 34 % 50 % Jenne(1) 15 % 12 % — Fiserv(2) 10 % — — Altisys(3) — 12 % 16 % Graybar(4) — — 15 % Total 55 % 58 % 81 % (1)We did not generate revenue from Jenne during fiscal year ended 2007. Additionally, in September 2009, we terminated our distribution agreement with Jenne. We believe the termination of our relationship with Jenne will not have a material impact on our business because we anticipate that revenue from other distributors will offset a portion of the lost revenue. (2)In August 2009, we entered into a reseller agreement with Fiserv Solutions, Inc. Our agreement with Fiserv has an initial term of ten years and will renew automatically for additional five year terms, provided that each party has the right to terminate the agreement for convenience upon ninety (90) days' written notice prior to the end of the initial term or any subsequent term of the agreement. We believe this relationship will contribute to revenue growth in fiscal 2010. (3)During fiscal year 2009, revenue generated from Altisys was less than 10% of our total revenue. (4)During fiscal year 2008, revenue generated through Graybar was less than 10% of our total revenue. Additionally, in April 2008, we terminated our distribution agreement with Graybar. The termination of our relationship with Graybar did not have a material impact on our business. We also have over 200 authorized resellers who sell our products directly to a broad range of end-users. We review our resellers' performance quarterly and discontinue distribution for those who do not meet our revenue or technical standards. Customer Support We believe that consistent, high-quality service and support are key factors in attracting and retaining customers. Our customer support groups, located in California, Texas, Colorado, Minnesota and Shanghai, China coordinate service and technical support of our products and provide service twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week. Our support personnel assist our distributors and resellers in resolving installation and support issues that arise from their sales to end users and also provide limited support to end-users to supplement dealer support. Resellers and end-user customers can also access technical information and receive technical support through our web site. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and frequent product introductions. We believe that our future success depends in large part upon our ability to continue to enhance the functionality and uses of our core technology. We intend to 10 Table of Contents extend the functionality and uses of our hardware and software technology and develop new products by continuing to invest in research and development. We are currently developing enhancements to our products to provide greater functionality and increased capacity that we expect will enable us to enhance our position in the Internet protocol phone system market space, enter new geographical markets, and allow us to continue to penetrate the call center market. We currently conduct the majority of our product development in-house. We also use a small number of independent contractors to assist with certain product development and testing activities. We intend to continue working with our strategic partners to enhance our products. As of September 30, 2009, we employed 55employees in engineering, research and development and support. A total of 31 of those employees were located in Shanghai, China. During fiscal years 2009, 2008, and 2007, our research and development expense was approximately $4.9 million, $4.2 million, and $3.4 million, respectively. COMPETITION The markets for our products are intensely competitive, continually evolving and subject to changing technologies. We currently compete with Internet protocol and Internet protocol-enabled telecommunications systems, such as Avaya Inc., Mitel Networks Corporation, Shoretel Inc, and Cisco Systems, Inc. Many of our competitors are substantially larger than us and have significantly greater name recognition, financial, sales and marketing, technical, customer support, manufacturing and other resources. These competitors also may have more established distribution channels and stronger relationships with local, long distance and Internet service providers. These competitors may be able to respond more rapidly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products. These competitors may enter our existing or future markets with products that may be less expensive, that may provide higher performance or additional features or that may be introduced more quickly than our products. In fiscal 2009, we believe that we continued to be both feature and price competitive. Additionally, we believe we provide a low ongoing cost of ownership. We believe that our principal competitive advantages include: •Leading provider of 100 percent Microsoft-based VoIP business phone systems and Unified Communications solutions; •Ability to reduce communications costs; •Ease of system manageability; •Ease of use; •Simple deployment in single and multi-site implementations; •Ability to achieve rapid product development; •Experience in service and technical support of Internet protocol telephony; •Complete call center application now standard with all MAXCS systems; •Decentralized voice processing support for advanced and integrated telephony application; •Innovative mobility capabilities supporting mobile telephone devices such as the telephone system extensions; and •Reliable redundant configurations supported. 11 Table of Contents We believe that we compete favorably with our competitors on the basis of these factors. However, if we are not able to compete successfully against our current and future competitors, it will be difficult to acquire and retain customers, and we may experience revenue declines, reduced operating margins, loss of market share and diminished value in our services. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY We generally rely upon patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws to protect and maintain our proprietary rights for our technology and products. As of September 30, 2009, we have been issued three registered trademarks, "AltiGen™," "AltiServ™" and "Zoomerang™." In addition, the AltiGen logo is a trademark of ours in the United States and other jurisdictions. All other trademarks and trade names used in this Form 10-K are the property of their respective owners. We have filed several U.S. patent applications relating to various aspects of our client and server software, mixed-media communications and computer telephony. As of September 30, 2009, we have been issued sixteen U.S. patents. We expect to continue to file patent applications to protect our technology and products. We cannot be sure that our patent applications will result in the issuance of patents, or that any issued patents will provide commercially significant protection for our technology. We maintain a policy requiring our employees, consultants and other third parties to enter into confidentiality and proprietary rights agreements and to control access to software, documentation and other proprietary information. Notwithstanding the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our proprietary rights. Competitors may also independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to the technologies we employ in our services. MANUFACTURING AND ASSEMBLY Our manufacturing operations consist of two phases. In the first phase, we send out components of our products to a third party assembler. The third party assembler auto-inserts the components into the printed circuit boards. In the second phase, we insert the assembled circuit boards into the burn-in process for a minimum of two weeks and after that we perform the final test of the circuit boards. In fiscal year 2009, we engaged All Quality Services in Fremont, California and ISIS Surface Mounting, Inc. in San Jose, California as our third party assemblers. During fiscal 2009, four suppliers, Advantech Corporation, BCM Communications, Inc., Avnet Electronics and AAEON Electronics, Inc., provided us with approximately 79% of our hardware product components. We purchase fully-assembled chassis from Advantech Corporation, Internet protocol phones from BCM Communications, Inc., single board computers for our MAX product from AAEON Electronics, Inc. and raw material components from Avnet Electronics. As of September 30, 2009, our in-house manufacturing operations occupied approximately 6,000 square feet of our corporate headquarters in San Jose, California. We test our products after the assembly process using internally developed product assurance testing procedures, which include visual inspection, functional testing and final systems testing. Although we generally use standard components for our products and try to maintain alternative sources of supply, we purchase some key components from sole source suppliers for which alternative sources are not currently available. We incorporate the following sole-sourced components in our products: •Zarlink Corporation chips are included in all of our boards and are the means by which our boards communicate with each other to enable our products to function correctly. •Texas Instruments' digital signal processor ("DSP") chips are included in our Triton family of boards. The DSP chip is designed to perform the mathematics, data compression and other tasks required to manipulate voice communications that are routed through our products. 12 Table of Contents •Xilinx, Inc provides chips for our Triton family of boards which allow our boards to work with digital communications lines. •Infineon Technologies provides chips for our Triton Analog product line which allow our board to work with analog communications lines. •PMC Sierra, Inc. provides chips for our Triton Digital product line which allow our board to work with digital communications lines. •Advantech Corporation provides the chassis for our MAXCS Office products and some of our larger systems based on our specifications. •BCM Communications, Inc. manufactures our Internet protocol phone loaded with customized firmware to work with our system. •AAEON Electronics, Inc. manufactures single board computers for our MAX products. The loss of any key component supplier would adversely impact our business. EMPLOYEES As of September 30, 2009, we had 115 full-time employees, including 55 in research and development and support, 39 in marketing and sales, 8 in operations, and 13 in finance and administration. Of these full-time employees, 66 were located in the United States and 49 in China. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified technical, marketing, engineering and management personnel. We were incorporated in California in May 1994, and we reincorporated into Delaware in June 1999. Our corporate headquarters are located at 410 East Plumeria Drive, San Jose, California 95134. Our telephone number is (408) 597-9000. We maintain an Internet website at http://www.altigen.com. Our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and certain of our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) are available through the Investor Relations section of our website. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and other required filings and amendments to these filings are available on the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov, which can be reached from our Investor Relations website. In addition, you may read and copy any material we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS CERTAIN FACTORS AFFECTING BUSINESS, OPERATING RESULTS, AND FINANCIAL CONDITION In addition to other information contained in this Form 10-K, investors should carefully consider the following factors that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. All statements other than statements of historical fact are "forward-looking statements" for purposes of these provisions, including any statements regarding: projections of revenues, future research and development expenses, future selling, general and administrative expenses, other expenses, gross profit, gross margin, or other financial items; the plans and objectives of management for future operations; our exposure to interest rate risk; future economic conditions or performance; plans to focus on cost control; In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of terminology such as "may," "will," "expects," "plans," "anticipates," "estimates," "potential," or "continue," or the negative thereof or other comparable terminology. 13 Table of Contents Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements contained herein are reasonable, there can be no assurance that such expectations or any of the forward-looking statements will prove to be correct, and actual results could differ materially from those projected or assumed in the forward-looking statements. Our future financial condition and results of operations, as well as any forward-looking statements, are subject to risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to the factors set forth below and elsewhere in this report. All forward-looking statements and reasons why results may differ included in this Annual Report are made as of the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to update any such forward-looking statement or reason why actual results may differ. Risks Related to Our Business Our business could be harmed by adverse global economic conditions in our target markets or reduced spending on information technology and telecommunication products. Current uncertainty in global economic conditions pose a risk to the overall economy as consumers and businesses may defer purchases in response to tighter credit and negative financial news, which could negatively affect product demand and other related matters. Our business depends on the overall demand for information technology, and in particular for telecommunications systems. The market we serve is emerging and the purchase of our products involves significant upfront expenditures. In addition, the purchase of our products can be discretionary and may involve a significant commitment of capital and other resources. Weak economic conditions in our target markets, or a reduction in information technology or telecommunications spending even if economic conditions improve, would likely adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition in a number of ways, including longer sales cycles, lower prices for our products and reduced unit sales. We have had a history of losses and may incur future losses, which may prevent us from attaining profitability. We have had a history of operating losses since our inception and, as of September 30, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of $60.7 million. We may incur operating losses in the future, and these losses could be substantial and impact our ability to attain profitability. We do not expect to significantly increase expenditures for product development, general and administrative expenses, and sales and marketing expenses; however, if we cannot maintain current revenue or revenue growth, we will not achieve or sustain profitability or positive operating cash flows. Even if we achieve profitability and positive operating cash flows, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability or positive operating cash flows on a quarterly or annual basis. Our operating results vary, making future operating results difficult to predict. Our quarterly and annual operating results have varied significantly in the past and likely will vary significantly in the future. A number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, have caused and may cause our operating results to vary, including: •our ability to respond effectively to competitive pricing pressures; •our ability to establish or increase market acceptance of our technology, products and systems; •our success in expanding our network of distributors, dealers and companies that buy our products in bulk, customize them for particular applications or customers, and resell them under their own names; •market acceptance of products and systems incorporating our technology and enhancements to our product applications on a timely basis; •our success in supporting our products and systems; 14 Table of Contents •our sales cycle, which may vary substantially from customer to customer; •unfavorable changes in the prices and delivery of the components we purchase; •the size and timing of orders for our products, which may vary depending on the season, and the contractual terms of the orders; •the size and timing of our expenses, including operating expenses and expenses of developing new products and product enhancements; •deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products, services or product enhancements introduced by us or by our competitors; and •our ability to attain and maintain production volumes and quality levels for our products. Our future projected budgets and commitments are based in part on our expectations of future sales. If our sales do not meet expectations, it will be difficult for us to reduce our expenses quickly and, consequently, our operating results may suffer. Our dealers often require immediate shipment and installation of our products. As a result, we have historically operated with limited backlog, and our sales and operating results in any quarter primarily depend on orders booked and shipped during that quarter. Any of the above factors could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not meaningful, and you should not rely upon them as indicators of our future performance. Our market is highly competitive and we may not have the resources to adequately compete. The market for our integrated, multifunction telecommunications systems is new, rapidly evolving and highly competitive. We expect competition to intensify in the future as existing competitors develop new products and new competitors enter the market. We believe that a critical component to success in this market is the ability to establish and maintain strong partner and customer relationships with a wide variety of domestic and international providers. If we fail to establish or maintain these relationships, we will be at a serious competitive disadvantage. We face competition from companies providing traditional private telephone systems. Our principal competitors that produce these telephone systems are Avaya Communications and Mitel Networks Corporation. We also compete against providers of multi-function telecommunications systems, including Shoretel and Cisco Systems, as well as any number of future competitors. Many of our competitors are substantially larger than we are and have significantly greater name recognition, financial resources, sales and marketing teams, technical and customer support, manufacturing capabilities and other resources. These competitors also may have more established distribution channels and stronger relationships with service providers. These competitors may be able to respond more rapidly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products. These competitors may enter our existing or future markets with products that may be less expensive, provide higher performance or additional features or be introduced earlier than our phone systems. We also expect that other companies may enter our market with better products and technologies. If any technology that is competing with ours is more reliable, faster, less expensive or has other advantages over our technology, then the demand for our products and services could decrease and harm our business. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the performance of their current products and introduce new products or new technologies. If our competitors successfully introduce new products or enhance their existing products, our sales or market acceptance of our products and services could be reduced, price competition could be increased or our products could become obsolete. To remain 15 Table of Contents competitive, therefore, we must continue to invest significant resources in research and development, sales and marketing and customer support. We may not have sufficient resources to make these investments or to make the technological advances necessary to be competitive, which in turn will cause our business to suffer. We sell the majority of our products through dealers and distributors, which limits our ability to control the timing of our sales, and which makes it more difficult to predict our revenue. We do not recognize revenue from the sale of our products to our distributors until these products are sold to either resellers or end-users. We have little control over the timing of product sales to resellers and end users. Our lack of control over the revenue that we recognize from our distributors' sales to resellers and end-users limits our ability to predict revenue for any given period. Our future projected budgets and commitments are based in part on our expectations of future sales. If our sales do not meet expectations, it will be difficult for us to reduce our expenses quickly, and consequently our operating results may suffer. We rely on resellers to promote, sell, install and support our products, and their failure to do so or our inability to recruit or retain resellers may substantially reduce our sales and thus seriously harm our business. We rely on resellers who can provide high quality sales and support services. As with our distributors, we compete with other telecommunications systems providers for our resellers' business as our resellers generally market competing products. If a reseller promotes a competitor's products to the detriment of our products or otherwise fails to market our products and services effectively, we could lose market share. In addition, the loss of a key reseller or the failure of resellers to provide adequate customer service could cause our business to suffer. If we do not properly train our resellers to sell, install and service our products, our business will suffer. Software or hardware errors may seriously harm our business and damage our reputation, causing loss of customers and revenue. Users expect telephone systems to provide a high level of reliability. Our products are inherently complex and may have undetected software or hardware errors. We have detected and may continue to detect errors and product defects in our installed base of products, new product releases and product upgrades. End users may install, maintain and use our products improperly or for purposes for which they were not designed. These problems may degrade or terminate the operation of our products, which could cause end users to lose telephone service, cause us to incur significant warranty and repair costs, damage our reputation and cause significant customer relations problems. Any significant delay in the commercial introduction of our products due to errors or defects, any design modifications required to correct these errors or defects or any negative effect on customer satisfaction as a result of errors or defects could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any claims brought because of problems with our products or services could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently offer a one-year hardware guarantee to end-users. If our products fail within the first year, we face replacement costs. Our insurance policies may not provide sufficient or any coverage should a claim be asserted. In addition, our introduction of products and systems with reliability, quality or compatibility problems could result in reduced revenue, uncollectible accounts receivable, delays in collecting accounts receivable, warranties and additional costs. Our customers, end users or employees could find errors in our products and systems after we have begun to sell them, resulting in product redevelopment costs and loss of, or delay in, their acceptance by the markets in which we compete. Further, we may experience significant product returns in the future. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Our market is subject to changing preferences; failure to keep up with these changes would result in our losing market share, thus seriously harming our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our customers and end users expect frequent product introductions and have changing requirements for new products and features. In order to be competitive, we need to develop and market new products and product enhancements that respond to these changing requirements on a timely and cost-effective basis. Our failure to do so promptly and cost effectively would seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, introducing new products could require us to write-off existing inventory as obsolete, which could harm our results of operations. We depend on attracting and retaining qualified personnel to maintain and expand our business; our failure to promptly attract and retain qualified personnel may seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel, particularly engineers and sales and marketing personnel. We need highly trained technical personnel to design and support our server-based telecommunications systems. In addition, we need highly trained sales and marketing personnel to expand our marketing and sales operations in order to increase market awareness of our products and generate increased revenue. Competition for highly trained personnel can at times be intense, especially in the San Francisco Bay Area where most of our operations are located. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in our recruitment and retention efforts. If we fail to attract or retain qualified personnel or suffer from delays in hiring required personnel, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be seriously harmed. Losing any of our key distributors would harm our business. We also need to establish and maintain relationships with additional distributors and original equipment manufacturers. Sales through our three key distributors, Altisys Communications, Inc., Synnex Corporation and Jenne Distributors, Inc., accounted for 52% of our net revenue in fiscal year ended September 30, 2009. Our business and operating results will suffer if any one of these distributors does not continue distributing our products, fails to distribute the volume of our products that it currently distributes or fails to expand our customer base. We also need to establish and maintain relationships with additional distributors and original equipment manufacturers. In September 2009, we terminated our distribution agreement with Jenne. We believe the termination of our relationship with Jenne will not have a material impact on our business because we anticipate that revenue from other distributors will offset a portion of the lost revenue. We may not be able to establish, or successfully manage, relationships with additional distribution partners. In addition, our agreements with distributors typically provide for termination by either party upon written notice to the other party. For example, our agreement with Synnex provides for termination, with or without cause, by either party upon 30 days' written notice to the other party, or upon insolvency or bankruptcy. Generally, these agreements are non-exclusive and distributors sell products that compete with ours. If we fail to establish or maintain relationships with distributors and original equipment manufacturers, our ability to increase or maintain our sales and our customer base will be substantially harmed. We rely on sole-sourced components and third party technology and products; if these components are not available, our business may suffer. We purchase technology that is incorporated into many of our products, including virtually all of our hardware products, from a single third-party supplier. We order sole-sourced components using purchase orders and do not have supply contracts for them. One sole-sourced component, a TI DSP chip, is particularly important to our business because it is included in virtually all of our hardware 17 Table of Contents products. If we were unable to purchase an adequate supply of these sole-sourced components on a timely basis, we would be required to develop alternative products, which could entail qualifying an alternative source or redesigning our products based on different components. Our inability to obtain these sole-sourced components, especially the TI DSP chip, could significantly delay shipment of our products, which could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Compliance with changing regulations of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and NASDAQ National Market rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In particular, our efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and beginning with the year ended September 30, 2010, our external auditor's audit of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting has required the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. We expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. Further, our board members, chief executive officer, and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may be harmed. Our facility is vulnerable to damage from earthquakes and other natural disasters and other business interruptions; any such damage could seriously or completely impair our business. We perform final assembly, software installation and testing of our products at our facility in San Jose, California. Our facility is located on or near known earthquake fault zones and may be subject to rolling electrical blackouts and is vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, floods, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. If such a disaster or interruption occurs, our ability to perform final assembly, software installation and testing of our products at our facility would be seriously, if not completely, impaired. If we were unable to obtain an alternative place or way to perform these functions, our business, financial condition and results of operations would suffer. The insurance we maintain may not be adequate to cover our losses against fires, floods, earthquakes and general business interruptions. Our strategy to outsource assembly and test functions in the future could delay delivery of products, decrease quality or increase costs. We may begin to outsource a substantial amount of our product assembly and test functions. This outsourcing strategy involves certain risks, including the potential lack of adequate capacity and reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yield, quality and costs. In the event that any significant subcontractors were to become unable or unwilling to continue to manufacture or test our 18 Table of Contents products in the required volumes, we would have to identify and qualify acceptable replacements. Finding replacements could take time and we cannot be sure that additional sources would be available to us on a timely basis. Any delay or increase in costs in the assembly and testing of products by third-party subcontractors could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our expansion in international markets has been slow and steady. However, our plan is to accelerate this growth rate and will involve new risks that our previous domestic operations have not prepared us to address; our failure to address these risks could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. For fiscal year 2009, approximately 14% of our net revenue came from customers outside of the Americas. We intend to expand our international sales and marketing efforts. Our efforts are subject to a variety of risks associated with conducting business internationally, any of which could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. These risks include: •tariffs, duties, price controls or other restrictions on foreign currencies or trade barriers, such as import or export licensing imposed by foreign countries, especially on technology; •potential adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on repatriation of cash or earnings; •fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which could make our products relatively more expensive in foreign markets; and •conflicting regulatory requirements in different countries that may require us to invest significant resources customizing our products for each country. Any failure by us to protect our intellectual property could harm our business and competitive position. Our success depends, to a certain extent, upon our proprietary technology. We currently rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark law, together with non-disclosure and invention assignment agreements, to establish and protect the proprietary rights in the technology used in our products. Although we have been issued sixteen patents and expect to continue to file patent applications, we are not certain that our patent applications will result in the issuance of patents, or that any patents issued will provide commercially significant protection of our technology. In addition, other individuals or companies may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information not covered by the patents to which we own rights, may obtain access to our know-how or may claim to have issued patents that prevent the sale of one or more of our products. Also, it may be possible for third parties to obtain and use our proprietary information without our authorization. Further, the laws of some countries, such as those in Japan, one of our target markets, may not adequately protect our intellectual property or such protection may be uncertain. Our success also depends on trade secrets that cannot be patented and are difficult to protect. If we fail to protect our proprietary information effectively, or if third parties use our proprietary technology without authorization, our competitive position and business will suffer. If we are unable to raise additional capital when needed, we may be unable to develop or enhance our products and services. We may seek additional funding in the future. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may be unable to develop or enhance our products and services, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements. We also may be required to reduce operating costs through lay-offs or reduce our sales and marketing or research and development efforts. If we issue equity securities, stockholders may experience additional dilution or the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. 19 Table of Contents We may face infringement issues that could harm our business by requiring us to license technology on unfavorable terms or temporarily or permanently cease sales of key products. We may become parties to litigation in the normal course of our business. Litigation in general, and intellectual property and securities litigation in particular, can be expensive and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex litigation are difficult to predict. We were previously a defendant in a patent infringement suit brought by Vertical Networks. On October 4, 2007, the parties entered into a stipulation dismissing the lawsuit in its entirety without prejudice. Consequently, Vertical Networks may reassert these or related claims in one or more separate proceedings. More generally, litigation related to these types of claims may require us to acquire licenses under third party patents that may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. We believe that an increasing portion of our revenue in the future will come from sales of software applications for our hardware products. The software market traditionally has experienced widespread unauthorized reproduction of products in violation of developers' intellectual property rights. This activity is difficult to detect, and legal proceedings to enforce developers' intellectual property rights are often burdensome and involve a high degree of uncertainty and substantial costs. Our products may not meet the legal standards required for their sale in some countries; if we cannot sell our products in these countries, our results of operations may be seriously harmed. The United States and other countries in which we intend to sell our products have standards for safety and other certifications that must be met for our products to be legally sold in those countries. We have tried to design our products to meet the requirements of the countries where we sell or plan to sell them. We also have obtained or are trying to obtain the certifications that we believe are required to sell our products in these countries. We cannot, however, guarantee that our products meet all of these standards or that we will be able to obtain any certifications required. In addition, there is, and will likely continue to be, an increasing number of laws and regulations pertaining to the products we offer and may offer in the future. These laws or regulations may include, for example, more stringent safety standards, requirements for additional or more burdensome certifications or more stringent consumer protection laws. If our products do not meet a country's standards or we do not receive the certifications required by a country's laws or regulations, then we may not be able to sell our products in that country. This inability to sell our products may seriously harm our results of operation by reducing our sales or requiring us to invest significant resources to conform our products to these standards. Risks Related to the Industry Integrated, multifunction telecommunications systems may not achieve widespread acceptance. The market for integrated, multifunction telecommunications systems is relatively new and rapidly evolving. Businesses have invested substantial resources in the existing telecommunications infrastructure, including traditional private telephone systems, and may be unwilling to replace these systems in the near term or at all. Businesses also may be reluctant to adopt integrated, multifunction telecommunications systems because of their concern about the current limitations of data networks, including the Internet. For example, end users sometimes experience delays in receiving calls and reduced voice quality during calls when routing calls over data networks. Moreover, businesses that begin to route calls over the same networks that currently carry only their data also may experience these problems if the networks do not have sufficient capacity to carry all of these communications at the same time. 20 Table of Contents Evolving standards may delay our product introductions, increase our product development costs or cause end users to defer or cancel plans to purchase our products, any of which could adversely affect our business. The standards in our market are still evolving. These standards are designed to ensure that integrated, multifunction telecommunications products from different manufacturers can operate together. Some of these standards are proposed by other participants in our market, including some of our competitors, and include proprietary technology. In recent years, these standards have changed, and new standards have been proposed, in response to developments in our market. Our failure to conform our products to existing or future standards may limit their acceptance by market participants. We may not anticipate which standards will achieve the broadest acceptance in our market in the future, and we may take a significant amount of time and expense to adapt our products to these standards. We also may have to pay additional royalties to developers of proprietary technologies that become standards in our market. These delays and expenses may seriously harm our results of operations. In addition, customers and users may defer or cancel plans to purchase our products due to concerns about the ability of our products to conform to existing standards or to adapt to new or changed standards, and this could seriously harm our results of operations. Future regulation or legislation could harm our business or increase our cost of doing business. The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) has submitted a report to Congress stating that it may regulate certain Internet services if it determines that such Internet services are functionally equivalent to conventional telecommunications services. The increasing growth of the voice over data network market and the popularity of supporting products and services, heighten the risk that national governments will seek to regulate the transmission of voice communications over networks such as the Internet. In addition, large telecommunications companies may devote substantial lobbying efforts to influence the regulation of this market so as to benefit their interests, which may be contrary to our interests. These regulations may include, for example, assessing access or settlement charges, imposing tariffs or imposing regulations based on encryption concerns or the characteristics and quality of products and services. In February 2004, the FCC found that an entirely Internet based voice over Internet protocol service was an unregulated information service. At the same time, the FCC began a broader proceeding to examine what its role should be in this new environment of increased consumer choice and what can be done to meet its role of safeguarding the public interest. Future laws, legal decisions or regulations, as well as changes in interpretations of existing laws and regulations, could require us to expend significant resources to comply with them. In addition, these future events or changes may create uncertainty in our market that could reduce demand for our products. Risks Related to Ownership of our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. Factors that could affect the trading price of our common stock could include: •variations in our operating results; •announcements of technological innovations, new products or product enhancements, strategic alliances or significant agreements by us or by our competitors; •the gain or loss of significant customers; •recruitment or departure of key personnel; •the impact of unfavorable worldwide economic and market conditions, including the restricted credit environment impacting credit of our customers; 21 Table of Contents •changes in estimates of our operating results or changes in recommendations by any securities analysts who follow our common stock; •significant sales, or announcement of significant sales, of our common stock by us or our stockholders; and •adoption or modification of regulations, policies, procedures or programs applicable to our business. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for technology companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Broad market and industry factors may seriously affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a particular company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they issue an adverse or misleading opinion regarding our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If any of the analysts who cover us issue an adverse or misleading opinion regarding our stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. We may choose to raise additional capital. Such capital may not be available, or may be available on unfavorable terms, which would adversely affect our ability to operate our business. We expect that our existing cash balances will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for the foreseeable future. If we choose to raise additional funds, due to unforeseen circumstances or material expenditures, we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, if at all, and any additional financings could result in additional dilution to our existing stockholders. Provisions in our charter documents, Delaware law, employment arrangements with certain of our executive officers and Preferred Stock Rights Agreement could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include but are not limited to the following: •our board of directors has the right to increase the size of the board of directors and to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors; •our board of directors is staggered into three (3) classes and each member is elected for a term of 3 years, which prevents stockholders from being able to assume control of the board of directors; 22 Table of Contents •our stockholders may not act by written consent and are limited in their ability to call special stockholders' meetings; as a result, a holder, or holders, controlling a majority of our capital stock would be limited in their ability to take certain actions other than at annual stockholders' meetings or special stockholders' meetings called by the board of directors, the chairman of the board or the president; •our certificate of incorporation prohibits cumulative voting in the election of directors, which limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates; •stockholders must provide advance notice to nominate individuals for election to the board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders' meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquiror from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquiror's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company; and •our board of directors may issue, without stockholder approval, shares of undesignated preferred stock; the ability to issue undesignated preferred stock makes it possible for our board of directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover provisions. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. Our board of directors could rely on Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. Certain of our executive officers may be entitled to accelerated vesting of their options pursuant to the terms of their employment arrangements upon a change of control of AltiGen. In addition to the arrangements currently in place with some of our executive officers, we may enter into similar arrangements in the future with other officers. Such arrangements could delay or discourage a potential acquisition of AltiGen. Our board of directors declared a dividend of one (1) right for each share of Common Stock under the terms and conditions of a Preferred Stock Rights Agreement by and between AltiGen and Computershare Trust Company, N.A. dated April 21, 2009, which right is exercisable for shares of AltiGen's Preferred Stock after the date on which a hostile acquiror obtains, or announces a tender offer for, 15% or more of the Company's Common Stock. If an acquiror obtains 15% or more of the Company's Common Stock, each stockholder (except the acquiror) may purchase either our Common Stock or in certain circumstances, the acquiror's Common Stock, at a discount, resulting in substantial dilution to the acquiror's interest. Such rights could delay or discourage a potential acquisition of AltiGen. Our common stock could be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. The price of our common stock has traded below $1.00 per share for a significant period of time. On September 15, 2009, we received notification from the NASDAQ Capital Market that the bid price of our common stock has been below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive trading days. We have been granted 180 days, or until March 14, 2010, to regain compliance with the minimum bid requirement by maintaining a closing bid price of $1.00 per share or higher for a minimum of 10 consecutive trading days. If we fail to meet the minimum bid price requirement of $1.00 for 10 consecutive trading dates, our common stock may be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain out listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market. If our common stock is delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market, trading, if any, in our common stock may then continue to be conducted in the over-the-counter market in what are commonly referred to as the electronic bulletin board and the "pink sheets." As a result, investors may 23 Table of Contents find it more difficult to dispose of or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our common stock. In addition, we would be subject to rules promulgated by the SEC that, if we fail to meet criteria set forth in such rules, impose various practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell securities governed by those rules to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. Consequently, those rules may have a material adverse effect on the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities, which may materially limit the market liquidity of our common stock and the ability of our stockholders to sell our securities in the secondary market. A delisting of our common stock will also make us ineligible to use Form S-3 to register the sale of shares of our common stock or to register the resale of our securities with the SEC, thereby making it more difficult and expensive for us to register our common stock or other securities and raise additional capital. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 