Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Holding our shares involves various risks and uncertainties. The risks described in this section are among those that have had or could in the future have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, as well as on the value of our common shares. Risks Related to Our Business We need to make new investments that generate returns sufficient to cover operating costs and grow shareholder value over the long term. During the third quarter of 2013, the Company sold its common shares in TEB. TEB owned the majority of the Company’s bonds, which were financed primarily with variable rate debt and preferred stock with periodic distribution rate resets. TEB generated a significant portion of the Company’s net income; however, the net income generated by TEB was at risk in light of its fixed rate bonds and the variable rate nature of TEB’s debt. TEB’s operating agreement also presented constraints, making it difficult to manage. For example, TEB could not enter into interest rate hedging instruments nor could it freely distribute cash to the Company. As a result of the TEB sale, the Company generated $19.2 million of unrestricted cash and was able to convert $44.8 million of cash held within TEB subject to distribution constraints, to cash that could be freely managed by the Company. At December 31, 2013, the Company had $66.8 million of unrestricted cash on its balance sheet. There is a risk that the Company will not be able to make new investments that will allow it to cover operating costs and grow shareholder value. There is also the risk that any new investments made by the Company will not generate returns sufficient to cover operating costs and grow shareholder value. Furthermore, because the Company has no restrictions as to the nature of its investments, it could deploy its cash into investments that have risk factors that we do not face today. Changes in interest rates and credit spreads may adversely affect the value of our bonds. The fair value of our bonds as reported on our balance sheet is impacted by changes in interest rates and credit spreads. As long-term rates rise or credit spreads increase, the value of our bonds will generally decline and these declines could be significant. Because most of our bonds are secured primarily by multifamily rental properties, increasing interest rates leading to higher mortgage rates may make it more difficult for buyers to obtain mortgage financing and may depress the prices buyers are willing to pay, thereby decreasing the value of our collateral and thus our bonds. 5 Changes in capitalization rates and interest rates may adversely affect the value of our real estate and our tax-credit-equity related contingent asset management fees. The carrying value of our real estate is at fair value when initially recorded and is then evaluated for impairment or carried at the lower of cost or fair value depending on its balance sheet classification. The fair value of our real estate will generally decline if regional-specific capitalization and discount rates rise. Furthermore, the value of our contingent asset management fees (for which there is no current book basis) is dependent on the residual value of the LIHTC Funds’ underlying multifamily rental properties. The residual value of these rental properties will generally decline if regional-specific capitalization and discount rates rise. Changes in interest rates may increase our borrowing costs and decrease our net interest income. As short-term rates rise, our borrowing costs will increase and our net interest income will decline as our bond income is fixed and a significant portion of our bond debt is variable and tied to short-term rates. At December 31, 2013 we had $102.2 million of bond related debt of which approximately 76% was tied to the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association (“SIFMA”) 7-day municipal swap index. We also had $111.9 million of subordinate debt at December 31, 2013 with a pay rate of 75 basis points (“bps”) that will reset to a variable rate during 2015. The variable rate on this debt will be tied to the London Interbank Offer Rate (“LIBOR”) 3-month index plus a spread of 330 basis points. Once the debt resets during 2015, our borrowing costs will be higher and will be subject to fluctuations of the LIBOR 3-month index. At December 31, 2013, none of the variable rate debt was hedged; however, during the first quarter of 2014, the Company entered into an interest rate cap with a notional amount of $45.0 million to protect spread income when the SIFMA 7-day municipal swap index rises to 250 bps or higher. Such arrangements are inherently subject to counterparty risk and we therefore cannot provide assurance that our interest rate cap will be effective to hedge our exposure to rising interest rates. The cash flows and value from our bond portfolio and real estate investments are dependent upon the quality of the related real estate collateral and can be impacted by the risks related to real estate. Because a substantial portion of our assets are secured by real estate, or consist of investments in entities that own real estate, the value of our assets is subject to the risks associated with investments in real estate. Most of these investments are directly or indirectly secured by multifamily rental properties, and therefore the value of these investments may be adversely affected by macroeconomic conditions or other factors that adversely affect the real estate market generally, or the market for multifamily real estate and bonds secured by these properties in particular. These possible negative factors include, among others: (i) increasing levels of unemployment and other adverse economic conditions, regionally or nationally; (ii) decreased occupancy and rent levels due to supply and demand imbalances; (iii) changes in interest rates that affect the cost of our capital, the value of our bonds or the value of the real estate that secures the bonds; and (iv) lack of or reduced availability of mortgage financing. Most of our investments derive their value from the cash flows generated by tenant leases. Many of the properties our investments finance have rent limitations that could adversely affect the ability to increase rents, as well as tenant income restrictions that may reduce the number of eligible tenants and, thus, occupancy rates at such properties. If, because of general economic conditions, local market conditions or property specific conditions, the tenants move out or cannot pay the rents charged on the specific units they lease, the owners (our borrowers) may not be able to lease the units to replacement tenants at full rent (or at all), in which case the cash flows from the properties may not be sufficient to pay interest on our bonds or loans and the value of our investments may decline. Real estate may also decline in value because of market conditions, environmental problems, casualty losses for which insurance proceeds are not sufficient to cover the loss, or condemnation proceedings. The value of our assets and our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by changes in local or national laws or regulatory conditions that affect significant segments of the real estate market, especially the multifamily housing market, including environmental, land use and other laws and regulations that affect the cost of maintaining and operating the properties that secure our investments. We have been, and may continue to be, directly and indirectly affected by disruptions in credit markets. Our business was significantly affected by the disruptions in the credit markets during the “Great Recession.” Disruptions in credit markets may cause significant deterioration in the market for tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds and other instruments that are a major part of our assets and likely to play a significant role in our reinvestment strategy. This has in the past and may in the future result in our having to reduce the carrying value of our bonds and other assets. 6 Virtually all of our non-cash assets are illiquid and may be difficult to sell at their reported carrying values. Our bonds and our direct and indirect investments in real estate are illiquid and difficult to value. As to our bonds in particular they are generally unenhanced and unrated and, as a consequence, the purchasers of the Company’s bonds are generally limited to accredited investors and qualified institutional buyers, which results in a limited trading market. This lack of liquidity complicates how the Company determines the fair value of its bonds as there is limited information on trades of comparable bonds. Therefore, there is a risk that if the Company needed to sell any of these assets, the price it is able to realize may be lower than the carrying value. Over 50% of our bonds are 30 or more days past due in principal and/or interest and others are at risk of becoming 30 or more days past due in principal and/or interest. As part of our sale of TEB, we retained our non-performing bonds so they now constitute the majority of our bond portfolio. The aggregate unpaid principal balance (“UPB”) of bonds that were 30 or more days past due in either principal and/or interest at December 31, 2013 was $149.7 million, or 51.4% of our total bond portfolio UPB (based on all bonds - see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - “Bond Portfolio”). We report our defaulted bonds at an estimated fair value which accounts for the default, but the values realized could be even less if foreclosures were pursued or if our borrowers filed for bankruptcy protection. Additionally, properties collateralizing certain performing bonds have net operating income (as represented in operating statements provided by the borrowing partnerships), which is less than the debt service owed to us. These bonds are at risk of default if the partners of the borrowing partnerships are unable or unwilling to continue to cover the shortfall in order to pay the full debt service. The value of our tax-exempt investments could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws. There can be no assurance that the government will not pass legislation that could adversely affect the value of our tax-exempt bonds. The government could make changes in tax or other laws, such as affordable housing incentive programs that while not directly affecting our tax-exempt bonds, could make them less valuable to investors. For example, if the federal government were to lower marginal federal income tax rates, or phase out the tax-exempt nature of the interest income for all or higher income taxpayers, our bonds would likely decline in value. Congress could also pass laws that make competing investments more attractive than tax-exempt bonds, which would also make our bonds less valuable. Our bonds may not retain their tax-exempt status. On the date of initial issuance of any tax-exempt bond that we hold, bond counsel or special tax counsel has rendered its opinion to the effect that interest on the bond is excludable from gross income for federal income tax purposes. However, under certain circumstances, our bonds could lose their tax-exempt status subsequent to issuance including, but not limited to: 1) borrower non-compliance with certain requirements that must be met subsequent to issuance in order for the bond to retain its tax-exempt status; 2) events that cause a technical bond reissuance; and 3) the Company being considered a substantial user of the underlying real estate. While we take steps to ensure that these circumstances do not occur, there can be no guarantees that the tax-exempt status will be maintained. If our bonds were to lose their tax-exempt status, then the fair value of those bonds would decline and the costs related to any financing tied to those bonds (e.g., our total return swaps (“TRS”)) would increase. A signification portion of our debt is executed through total return swaps which subject us to certain risk. The cash flows from our total return swaps are subject to the risks associated with the referenced asset (e.g., in most cases real estate related risks) and to credit risk of the obligor on the referenced asset. Also, to the extent the associated referenced assets lose value, we are at risk of having to provide additional collateral. Executing total return swaps are important to our US business. Currently, our total return swaps are with one financial institution. At least in the near term, entering into additional total return swaps is a significant part of our US business. To the extent, we are unable to execute these types of arrangements in the future we may not be able to achieve our near term goals and our financial position could suffer significantly. Proposals pending in Congress could adversely affect the value of our investments in preferred stock or result in us having to post additional cash collateral for our TRS. Our investments in preferred stock are comprised of stock investments in a private national mortgage lender and servicer. At December 31, 2013, these investments were carried at $31.4 million and the unpaid principal balance and estimated fair value was $36.6 million. This lender originates and services multifamily loans for both the Federal National Mortgage Association (“Fannie Mae”) and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp (“Freddie Mac”). There have been discussions and proposals in Congress to limit or eliminate the roles of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in the US mortgage market. If these or similar proposals were to pass, the business of the mortgage lender in which we hold these investments, and therefore the value of our investments, could be materially adversely affected. In addition, this investment is the reference asset in one of our TRS transactions. The counterparty to the transaction has the right to determine the value of the reference asset and to require us to post additional cash collateral if the value declines. We would be unable to invest such cash at more than nominal interest rates while it serves as collateral. 7 If we were subject to the Investment Company Act of 1940, we could be required to sell substantial portions of our assets at a time when we might not otherwise want to do so, and we could incur significant losses as a result. We continuously monitor our activities to be sure we do not become subject to regulation as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. We are exempt from the Investment Company Act because of an exemption for companies that are “primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate.” Because of changes in the nature and number of companies relying on this exemption and because most of the guidance surrounding this exemption comes from “no action” letters issued by the SEC staff, the SEC on August 31, 2011 issued a request for comment directed to the scope and use of this exemption. We do not know what action the SEC may take in response to the comments it receives. If we were regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we would be subject to extensive regulation and restrictions relating to capital structure, dividends and a number of other matters. Among other things, we would not be able to incur borrowings. Therefore, if due to a change in our assets, a change in the value of particular assets, or a change in the statute or the SEC’s interpretation of the statute, we were to become subject to the Investment Company Act, either we would have to restructure our assets so we would not be subject to that Act or we would have to change materially the way we do business. Any of those changes could require us to sell substantial portions of our assets at a time when we might not otherwise want to do so, and we could incur significant losses of value as a result. We have provided guarantees with respect to certain of the tax credit equity funds that we sponsored, and if we were to become obligated to perform on those guarantees our financial condition and results of operation could suffer. We have GP interests in certain LIHTC Funds for which we have guaranteed the availability of tax benefits and minimum returns on investment to certain LIHTC Funds’ investors. In some cases we sold our interest in LIHTC Funds where we made other types of guarantees and we have indemnified the purchaser from investor claims related to those guarantees. We continue to be obligated on our guarantees to the investors (or purchasers) in these funds and we could be required to make substantial payments with regard to these guarantees. In order for the investors in the LIHTC Funds to benefit from low-income housing tax credits, the partnerships in which the LIHTC Funds invest must operate affordable housing properties in compliance with a number of requirements in the Code and the regulations under it. Failure to comply continuously with these requirements throughout a 15-year recapture period could result in loss of the right to those low-income housing tax credits, including recapture of credits that were already taken, potentially creating liability under our guarantees. If we were to become obligated to perform on these guarantees our financial condition and results of operation would suffer. For tax reasons, we may be limited in our ability to take optimal actions in workout situations. In a workout situation, it is often useful for us to take control of the underlying real estate serving as collateral to our bonds. However, the tax benefits and return on investment guaranteed to certain LIHTC Funds’ investors may be negatively impacted if we directly acquire the GP interest in a LIHTC Fund’s lower tier property partnership (“LTPP”). If we were to become the GP in a LIHTC Fund’s LTPP, then the investors in the LIHTC Fund may be required to recognize taxable gains or forego future tax credits. If that were to happen, the Company may become obligated to perform under its guarantee in order to maintain the guaranteed yield. As a result, we may facilitate the transfer of the GP interest to an unrelated entity for tax purposes, rather than acquire the interest directly, in which case we might not be able to control the LTPP. The value of our investment in and cash flow from our International Operations could fluctuate with changes in the relative value of the dollar, euro and South African rand. The net assets and operations of IHS are denominated in euro and rand. In addition, our co-investments in the SA Fund and the SA Partnership are denominated in rand. We do not hedge these exposures and may experience losses as the value of our holdings in IHS, the SA Fund and the SA Partnership fluctuates with changes in foreign exchange rates of both the euro and the rand relative to the dollar. In addition, our SA Fund borrows money in US dollars from the Overseas Private Investment Corporation and the SA Fund itself therefore has dollar to rand currency risk and even though this risk is currently being hedged by the SA Fund with foreign currency derivatives, these borrowings or hedges could adversely impact the SA Fund’s results and the value of our investment. See “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements - Note 1, Description of Business and Basis of Presentation” for more information regarding our interests in IHS and the funds. 8 Our International Operations have foreign government risk and stability risk. Foreign governments have different laws and policies than the US government. They may change their laws and policies in ways that harm or limit our operations. They may compete directly with us. They may nationalize our operations without fair compensation to us. They may enact laws that make it more difficult for foreign companies to do business, thereby giving local competitors an advantage. South Africa and other countries impose exchange controls that regulate how money enters and leaves the country. These laws could be changed in ways that are adverse to us. Our ability to anticipate, control or counteract these risks is very limited. Foreign countries have social and economic stability risks that are different than the US. South Africa has experienced some social unrest in the past year and if that were to continue our operations and investments there could be adversely affected. The application of international tax regimes could substantially affect our after tax results of operations from International Operations. Income we earn abroad is subject to an entirely different set of tax risks than income we earn domestically. We are subject to the laws of the various jurisdictions in which we earn income, or through which our income must move in order for us to receive it in the US. International treaties also govern these tax consequences. If any of these laws or treaties changes, it could impact our projected after tax results and the impact could be substantial. Our International Operations are subject to additional real estate risks as compared to our US Operations, including laws and customs related to real estate ownership and finance. The SA Fund and the SA Partnership invest in real estate in South Africa. While many of the risks are similar to investing in US real estate, there are legal differences and market differences that may result in higher risks, which may adversely impact our operations and our results. Our International Operations include investments in for-sale units, meaning adverse conditions in the mortgage market could affect the value of those units. The SA Fund investments include for-sale units. If purchasers have difficulty obtaining mortgages or other financing, unit sales and, therefore, the value of our interests in these ventures could be adversely affected. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Shares Our Board of Directors (“Board”) can issue an unlimited number of common or preferred shares, which could reduce our book value per common share and earnings per common share and the cash or other assets available for distribution per common share upon liquidation or otherwise. Under our Operating Agreement, our Board can authorize, without any requirement of shareholder approval, the issuance of an unlimited number of common shares. Although New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) rules previously imposed some limitations on our ability to issue shares without shareholder approval, our shares are not currently listed on the NYSE. Issuances of common shares could dilute the book value or the net income per common share or the cash per share available for distribution to common shareholders. Our Board can also authorize, without any requirement of shareholder approval, the issuance of an unlimited number of shares with preferences over the common shares as to dividends, distributions on liquidation and other matters, other than voting. This could reduce the book value and net earnings that would be allocable to our common shares and the cash or other assets that are available for distribution to our common shareholders either periodically or upon our liquidation. Our shares are traded on the over-the-counter (“OTC”) market and may be less liquid than shares traded on a national exchange. Our shares currently trade on the OTC market specifically through the OTCQB marketplace. Our shares are thinly-traded resulting in less liquidity than may be experienced when trading in shares listed on one of the major exchanges, such as the New York Stock Exchange. In an effort to enhance liquidity and improve shareholder returns, we are currently engaged in a share buyback program. Should we discontinue that buyback program, or should the current trading price exceed the Board approved price limit for any period of time, shareholders may continue to experience liquidity constraints in the trading of our shares. Provisions of our Operating Agreement may discourage attempts to acquire us. Our Operating Agreement contains at least three groups of provisions that could have the effect of discouraging people from trying to acquire control of us. Those provisions are: · If any person or group acquires 10% or more of our shares, that person or group cannot, with a very limited exception, (1) engage in a business combination with us (including an acquisition from us of more than 10% of our assets or more than 5% of our shares) within five years after the person or group acquires the 10% or greater interest, unless our Board approved the business combination or approved the acquisition of a 10% or greater interest in us before it took place, or the business combination is approved by two-thirds of the members of our Board and holders of two-thirds of the shares that are not owned by the person or group that owns the 10% or greater interest; or (2) engage in a business combination with us until more than five years after the person or group acquires the 10% or greater interest, unless the business combination is recommended by our Board and approved by holders of 80% of our shares or of two-thirds of the shares that are not owned by the person or group that owns the 10% or greater interest. 9 · If any person or group makes an acquisition of our shares that causes the person or group to be able to exercise one-fifth or more but less than one-third of all voting power of our shares, one-third or more but less than a majority of all voting power of our shares, or a majority or more of all voting power of our shares, the acquired shares will lose their voting power, except to the extent approved at a meeting by the vote of two-thirds of the shares not owned by the person or group, and we will have the right to redeem, for their fair market value, any of the acquired shares for which the shareholders do not approve voting rights. · One third of our directors are elected each year to three-year terms. That could delay the time when someone who acquires voting control of us could elect a majority of our directors. The above provisions could deprive our shareholders of opportunities that might be attractive to many of them. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 