Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Changes in trends in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, including difficult market conditions, could adversely affect our operating results. Industry trends and economic and political factors that affect pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and academic, non-profit and government entities that sponsor clinical research also affect our business. For example, the practice of many companies in these industries and government organizations has been to hire companies like us to conduct large development projects. If these industries reduce their tendency to outsource those projects in light of difficult conditions in credit markets and the economy in general, or for any reason, our operations, financial condition and growth rate could be materially and adversely affected. In the past, mergers, product withdrawal and liability lawsuits, and other factors in the pharmaceutical industry appear to have slowed decision-making by pharmaceutical companies and delayed drug development projects. Continuation or increases in these trends could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, numerous governments have undertaken efforts to control growing healthcare costs through legislation, regulation and voluntary agreements with medical care providers and pharmaceutical companies. If future cost-containment efforts limit the profits that can be derived on new drugs, our clients might reduce their drug discovery and development spending, which could reduce our revenue and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our revenue depends on a small number of industries and clients. We provide services to the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries and academic, non-profit and government organizations that sponsor clinical trials, and our revenue is highly dependent on expenditures by these clients. Accordingly, our operations could be materially adversely affected by consolidation in these industries or other factors resulting in a decrease in the number of our potential clients, including business reductions or failures due to a lack of financing. If the number of our potential clients declines even further, they might be able to negotiate price discounts or other terms for our services that are less favorable to us than has historically been the case. We have experienced client concentration in the past and could again in the future. The loss of business from a significant client could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Neither request for proposal, or RFP, activity nor backlog necessarily result in revenue, and to the extent the mix of contracts in our backlog continues to shift toward larger contracts with a more global component, this might cause the rate at which this backlog converts into revenue to lengthen when compared to historical trends. Neither request for proposal, or RFP, activity nor backlog as of any date is necessarily a meaningful predictor of future results. Clients can reduce the size of RFPs and also withdraw them. We also might not win RFPs for any number of reasons. Likewise, backlog can be affected by a number of factors, including the size and duration of contracts, many of which are performed over several years, and the changes in labor utilization that typically occur during a study. Additionally, the majority of our contracts are subject to early termination by the client and preclinical projects and clinical trials can be delayed or canceled for many reasons, including unexpected results, safety concerns, regulatory developments, economic issues, availability of clinical trial material and protocol design matters. Also, the scope of a contract can change significantly during the course of a study. If the scope of a contract is revised, the adjustment to backlog occurs when the revised scope is approved by the client. For these and other reasons, we might not fully realize our entire backlog as net revenue. As we increasingly compete for and enter into large contracts that are more global in nature, we expect the rate at which this backlog converts into revenue, to increase or lengthen. An increase in this conversion rate means that the rate of revenue recognized on these large contract awards may be slower than what we have experienced in the past, which could impact our net revenues and results of operations on a quarterly and annual basis. The revenue recognition on larger, more global projects could be slower than on smaller, less global projects for a variety of reasons, including but not limited to an extended period of time between contract award and study start, as well as an increased timeframe for obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals. 19 Table of Contents The majority of our clients’ contracts can be delayed, terminated or reduced in scope upon short notice. Most of our contracts are terminable by the client upon 30 to 90 days’ notice. Clients delay, terminate or reduce the scope of their contracts for a variety of reasons, including but not limited to: • lack of available financing; • products being tested fail to satisfy safety requirements; • products have undesired clinical results; • the client decides to forego a particular study; • inability to enroll enough patients in the study; • inability to recruit enough investigators; • production problems cause shortages of the drug; and • actions by regulatory authorities. The delay, loss or reduction in scope of a large contract or multiple smaller contracts could adversely affect our operating results. Cancellation or delay of a large contract or multiple smaller contracts could result in under-utilized resources and require an adjustment to our backlog, negatively affecting our net revenue and results of operations. For example, in 2009, we experienced very high cancellation rates which significantly affected our revenue and backlog. We might not be able to recruit and retain the experienced personnel we need to compete in the drug development industry. Our future success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled personnel. Competition for personnel in our industry is intense and we must have good people to succeed. Management Our future success depends on the personal efforts and abilities of the principal members of our senior management and scientific staff to provide strategic direction, develop business, manage our operations, and maintain a cohesive and stable work environment. For example, we rely on the services of Fredric N. Eshelman, our executive chairman, William J. Sharbaugh, our chief operating officer, Daniel G. Darazsdi, our chief financial officer, and our other officers, particularly in light of the previously announced May 2011 retirement of our chief executive officer, David L. Grange. We have initiated a search for a successor, and our success will depend, in part, on our ability to recruit, integrate and retain a new chief executive officer, and on our ability to manage our business effectively until we do. Although we have employment agreements with most of our executives, they are generally only for one or two years and do not assure that these named executives or any other executive with whom we have an employment agreement will remain with us. We do not have employment agreements with all of our key personnel. Healthcare Providers Our ability to maintain, expand or renew existing business with our clients and to get business from new clients, particularly in the drug development sector, depends on our ability to subcontract and retain healthcare providers with the skills necessary to keep pace with continuing changes in drug development technologies. Competition for experienced healthcare providers is intense. We compete with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including our clients, other contract research companies and academic and research institutions, to recruit healthcare providers. Scientists and Other Technical Professionals Our ability to maintain, expand or renew existing business with our clients and to get business from new clients in the drug discovery and development area also depends on our ability to hire and retain scientists with the skills necessary to keep pace with continuing changes in drug discovery and development technologies. We face the same risks, challenges and competition in attracting and retaining experienced scientists as we do with healthcare providers. Any inability to hire additional qualified personnel might also require an increase in the workload for both existing and new personnel. We might not be successful in attracting new healthcare providers, scientists or management, or in retaining or motivating our existing personnel. The shortage of experienced healthcare providers and scientists, or other factors, might lead to increased recruiting, relocation and compensation costs for these professionals, which might exceed our forecasts. These increased costs might reduce our profit margins or make hiring new healthcare providers or scientists impracticable. If we are unable to attract and retain any of these personnel, our ability to execute our business plan will be adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents Our future success depends on our ability to keep pace with rapid technological changes that could make our services less competitive or obsolete. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries generally and drug discovery and development more specifically are subject to increasingly rapid technological changes. Our competitors or others might develop technologies, services or products that are more effective or commercially attractive than our current or future technologies, services or products, or that render our technologies, services or products less competitive or obsolete. If competitors introduce superior technologies, services or products and we cannot make enhancements to ours to remain competitive, our competitive position, and in turn our business, revenue and financial condition, would be materially and adversely affected. Hardware or software failures, delays in the operations of our computer and communications systems or the failure to implement system enhancements could harm our business. Our success depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications systems. A failure of our network or data gathering procedures could impede the processing of data, delivery of databases and services, client orders and day-to-day management of our business and could result in the corruption or loss of data. While some of our operations have disaster recovery plans in place, they might not adequately protect us, particularly because we currently do not have redundant facilities everywhere in the world to provide information technology capacity in the event of a system failure. Despite any precautions we take, damage from fire, floods, hurricanes, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, break-ins and similar events at our various computer facilities could result in interruptions in the flow of data to our servers and from our servers to our clients. In addition, any failure by our computer environment to provide our required data communications capacity could result in interruptions in our service. In the event of a delay in the delivery of data, we could be required to transfer our data collection operations to an alternative provider of server hosting services. Such a transfer could result in delays in our ability to deliver our products and services to our clients. Additionally, significant delays in the planned delivery of system enhancements, improvements and inadequate performance of the systems once they are completed could damage our reputation and harm our business. Finally, long-term disruptions in the infrastructure caused by events such as natural disasters, the outbreak of war, the escalation of hostilities and acts of terrorism, particularly involving cities in which we have offices, could adversely affect our businesses. Although we carry property and business interruption insurance, our coverage might not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur. Any failure by us to comply with existing regulations could harm our reputation and operating results. We are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and foreign governments. We must adhere to all regulatory requirements including the FDA’s current Good Clinical Practices, Good Laboratory Practice or Good Manufacturing Practice requirements. If we or these suppliers fail to comply with applicable regulations, including FDA pre-or post-approval inspections and cGMP requirements, then the FDA could sanction us. These sanctions could include fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of products, delay, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, product seizures or recalls, operational restrictions or criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect our reputation, operating results and future prospects. For example, if we were to fail to verify that informed consent is obtained from participants in connection with a particular clinical trial or grant deviations from the inclusion or exclusion criteria in a study protocol, the data collected from that trial could be disqualified and we might be required to conduct the trial again at no further cost to our client, but at a substantial reputational and financial cost to us. If our operations are found to violate any applicable law or other governmental regulations, we might be subject to civil and criminal penalties, damages and fines. Similarly, if the hospitals, physicians or other providers or entities with which we do business are found non-compliant with applicable laws, they might be subject to sanctions, which could also have a negative impact on us. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations, and additional legal or regulatory change. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business and damage our reputation. We expend significant resources on compliance efforts and such expenses are unpredictable and might adversely affect our results. Changing laws, regulations and standards might also create uncertainty, higher expenses and increase 21 Table of Contents insurance costs. We are committed to compliance and maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment might result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Changes in the U.S. and international healthcare industry, including reimbursement rates, could adversely harm our customers’ businesses, increase the cost of our business resulting in loss of business opportunities or limit our service offerings. The U.S. and international healthcare industry is subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences that may significantly affect the purchasing practices and pricing of pharmaceuticals. The laws and regulations governing the healthcare industry may change and additional government regulations might be enacted, which could prevent or delay regulatory approval of product candidates. In March 2010, the U.S. Congress enacted healthcare reform legislation intended over time to expand health insurance coverage and impose health industry cost containment measures. This legislation might significantly impact the pharmaceutical industry, which could hurt our business. The U.S. Congress has also considered and might adopt other legislation that could have the effect of putting downward pressure on the prices that pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can charge for prescription drugs. Cost-containment measures, whether instituted by healthcare providers or imposed by government health administration regulators or new regulations, could result in greater selectivity in the purchase of drugs. As a result, third-party payers might challenge the price and cost-effectiveness of products. In addition, in many major markets outside the United States, pricing approval is required before sales might commence. As a result, significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of approved healthcare products. In addition to healthcare reform proposals, the expansion of managed care organizations, which focus on reducing healthcare costs by limiting expenditures on pharmaceuticals and medical devices could result in pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies spending less on research and development. If this were to occur, we would have fewer business opportunities and our revenues could decrease, possibly materially. Any of these factors could harm customers’ businesses, which would hurt our business. Federal or state authorities might also adopt healthcare legislation or regulations that are more burdensome than existing regulations. For example, recent product safety concerns and the creation of the Drug Safety Oversight Board could change the regulatory environment for drug products, including the process for FDA product approval and post-approval safety surveillance. These and other changes in regulation could increase our expenses or limit our ability to offer some of our services. For example, the confidentiality of patient-specific information and the circumstances under which it may be released for inclusion in our databases or used in other aspects of our business are subject to substantial government regulation. Additional legislation or regulation governing the possession, use and dissemination of medical record information and other personal health information might require us to implement new security measures that require substantial expenditures or limit our ability to offer some of our services. These regulations might also increase costs by creating new privacy requirements for our informatics business and mandating additional privacy procedures for our clinical research business. The drug discovery and development services industry is highly competitive. The CRO industry is highly competitive and we face numerous competitors. If we fail to compete effectively, we might lose clients, which would cause our business to suffer. We primarily compete against in-house departments of pharmaceutical companies, other full service CROs, small specialty CROs, and, to a lesser extent, universities, teaching hospitals, and other site organizations. Some of the larger CROs against which we compete include Quintiles Transnational Corporation, Covance Inc., Parexel International Corp., Kendle Inc. and Icon plc. Some of these competitors, including the in-house departments of pharmaceutical companies, have greater capital, technical and other resources than we have. In addition, our competitors that are smaller specialized companies might compete effectively against us based on price and their concentrated size and focus. In recent years, a number of the large pharmaceutical companies have established formal or informal alliances with one or more CROs relating to the provision of services over extended time periods. These alliances differ in purpose, scope and term, but they have generally resulted in fewer CROs being approved or selected to perform work for the pharmaceutical company. Our success depends in part on successfully establishing and maintaining these kinds of 22 Table of Contents relationships on terms acceptable to us. If we fail to do so, our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected, possibly materially. Our business has experienced substantial expansion and contraction in the past and we might not properly manage any expansion or contraction in the future. Rapid expansion or contraction could strain our operational, human and financial resources and facilities. If we fail to properly manage any changes, our expenses might grow more than revenue and our results of operations and financial condition might be negatively affected. In order to manage expansion or contraction, we must, among other things, do the following: • continue to improve our operating, administrative and information systems; • accurately predict our future personnel, resource and facility needs to meet our commitments; • track the progress of ongoing projects; and • attract and retain qualified management, sales, professional, scientific and technical operating personnel. In addition, we have numerous business groups, subsidiaries and divisions, and recently reorganized our business segment reporting. If we cannot properly manage these groups, subsidiaries, divisions or segments, it will disrupt our operations. We also face additional risks in expanding our foreign operations. Specifically, we might find it difficult to: • assimilate differences in foreign business practices and regulations; • properly integrate systems and operating procedures; • hire and retain qualified personnel; and • overcome language and cultural barriers. Future acquisitions or investments could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses and adversely affect our business. We anticipate that a portion of any future growth of our business might be accomplished by acquiring existing businesses, products or technologies. The success of any acquisition will depend upon, among other things, our ability to integrate acquired personnel, operations, products and technologies into our organization effectively, to retain and motivate key personnel of acquired businesses and to retain their clients. In addition, we might not be able to identify suitable acquisition opportunities or obtain any necessary financing on acceptable terms. We might also spend time and money investigating and negotiating with potential acquisition or investment targets, but not complete the transaction. Any future acquisition could involve other risks, including the assumption of additional liabilities and expenses, issuances of potentially dilutive securities or interest-bearing debt, transaction costs, reduction in our stock price as a result of any of these or because of market reaction to a transaction and diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. We have made and plan to continue to make investments in other companies. In many cases, there is no public market for the securities of these companies and we might not be able to sell these securities on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In addition, if these companies encounter financial difficulties, we might lose all or part of our investment. For example, in 2009 and 2010 we recorded an investment impairment of $2.1 million and $5.0 million, respectively, to write down the carrying value of certain investments due to an other-than-temporary decline in fair value. See Note 3 in the notes to consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report for a more detailed discussion of these impairments. We have also made an investment in the Celtic Therapeutics Holdings, L.P. fund, which we account for using the equity method of accounting. This investment could have a significant impact on our financial results as our equity in the earnings of this investment can fluctuate significantly quarter to quarter based on the fund’s investments, new programs and the changes in fair market value of the investment portfolio. For example, we incurred losses of $2.1 million, $1.7 million and $4.6 million due to the expenditures of the fund during the first three quarters of 2010 and then recognized a $7.7 million gain in the fourth quarter due to additional third party investments in the fund and an increase in fair value of the fund’s investment portfolio. 23 Table of Contents The investment of our cash and cash equivalents, short-term and long-term investments balance are subject to risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. At December 31, 2010, we had $479.6 million in cash and cash equivalents, $80.0 million in short-term investments and $78.7 in long-term investments. These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which have been exacerbated by the global financial crisis. We classified our entire balance of auction rate securities as long-term investments at December 31, 2010 due to continuing uncertainties about the liquidity of the auction rate securities market. These risks might have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition, which could harm our business or our ability to pay dividends. The fixed price nature of our development contracts could hurt our operating results The majority of our contracts for the provision of development services are at fixed prices or fixed unit prices, and therefore have set limits on the amounts we can charge for our services. As a result, variations in the timing and progress of large contracts can materially affect our operating results. In addition, we bear the risk of cost overruns unless the scope of activity is revised from the contract specifications and we are able to negotiate a contract modification with the client shifting the additional cost to the client. If we fail to adequately price our contracts in total or at the unit level, or if we experience significant cost overruns, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. From time to time, we have had to commit unanticipated resources to complete projects, resulting in lower gross margins on those projects. We might experience similar situations in the future, which could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. If we are unable to attract suitable willing investigators and enroll a sufficient number of participants for our clinical trials, our development business might suffer. The clinical research studies we run rely upon the ready accessibility and willing participation of physician investigators and participant subjects. Investigators are typically located at hospitals, clinics or other sites and supervise administration of the study drug to participants during the course of a clinical trial. The rate of completion of clinical trials is significantly dependent upon the rate of participant enrollment. Participant enrollment is a function of many factors, including: • the size of the patient population; • perceived risks and benefits of the drug under study; • availability of competing therapies, including those in clinical development; • availability of clinical drug supply; • availability of qualified clinical trial sites; • availability and willingness of potential participants to enroll in clinical trials; • design of the protocol; • proximity of and access by participants to clinical sites; • participant referral practices of physicians; • eligibility criteria for the study in question; and • efforts of the sponsor of and clinical sites involved in the trial to facilitate timely enrollment. We might have difficulty obtaining sufficient patient enrollment or clinician support to conduct our clinical trials as planned, and we might need to expend substantial additional funds to obtain access to resources or delay or modify our plans significantly. These considerations might result in our being unable to successfully achieve our projected development timelines, or potentially even lead us to consider the termination of ongoing clinical trials or development of a product for a particular indication. Our business exposes us to potential liability for personal injury or product liability claims that could affect our financial condition. Our business involves the testing of new drugs on human volunteers and, if marketing approval is received for any of our drug candidates, their use by participants. This exposes us to the risk of liability for personal injury or death to patients resulting from, among other things, possible unforeseen adverse side effects or improper administration of a drug 24 Table of Contents or device. Many of these volunteers and participants are already seriously ill and are at risk of further illness or death. For example, we have from time to time been sued by individuals alleging personal injury due to their participation in a clinical trial and seeking damages from us under a variety of legal theories. If we are required to pay damages or incur defense costs in connection with any personal injury claim that is outside the scope of indemnification agreements we have with clients and collaborative partners, if any indemnification agreement is not performed in accordance with its terms or if our liability exceeds the amount of any applicable indemnification limits or available insurance coverage, we could be materially and adversely affected both financially and reputationally. We might also not be able to get adequate insurance for these risks at reasonable rates in the future. Our business uses biological and hazardous materials, which could injure people or violate laws, resulting in liability that could hurt our financial condition and business Our drug development activities involve the controlled use of potentially harmful biological materials, as well as hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and waste used in our operations. As a result, we might be required to incur significant costs to comply with laws and regulations. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any resulting damages and incur liabilities, which exceed our resources. In addition, we cannot predict the extent of the adverse effect on our business or the financial and other costs that might result from any new government requirements arising out of future legislative, administrative or judicial actions. Our business is subject to international economic, currency, political and other risks that could negatively affect our revenue and results of operations. Because we provide our services worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Our net revenue from our non-U.S. operations represented approximately 44.2% of our total net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2010. We anticipate that revenue from international operations will grow in the future, particularly in light of our recent acquisitions and expansion in Central and Eastern Europe and China. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: • changes in foreign currency exchange rates, which could result in foreign currency losses; • changes in a specific country or region’s political or economic conditions; • potential negative consequences from changes in tax laws affecting our ability to expatriate profits; • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations, including risks of violations of local laws or the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act by employees overseas; and • unfavorable labor regulations, including specifically those applicable to our European operations. For example, in 2010 our operating income would have been higher by approximately $1.1 million, net of hedging gain, if the U.S. dollar had not strengthened relative to the euro, British pound and Brazilian real. Although we attempt to manage this risk through provisions in our contracts with our clients and other methods, including foreign currency hedging contracts, we might not be able to eliminate or manage these risks in the future and our operating income could be materially and adversely affected by a significant decline in the value of the U.S. dollar. Our inability to adequately protect our intellectual property rights could hurt our business. The drug development industry has a history of patent and other intellectual property litigation, and we might be involved in costly intellectual property lawsuits. Our success is dependent on our ability to protect the proprietary software, compositions, processes and other technologies we develop during the drug development process along with our ability to develop and protect patent and other intellectual rights and operate without infringing the intellectual property rights of others. The drug discovery and development industry has a history of patent and other intellectual property litigation and these lawsuits will likely continue. Accordingly, we face potential claims by companies alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights. Legal proceedings relating to intellectual property could be expensive, take significant time and divert management’s attention from other business concerns, whether we win or lose. If we do not prevail in an infringement lawsuit brought 25 Table of Contents against us, we might have to pay substantial damages and we could be required to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license to use technology on unfavorable terms. Any patents that we own or license might not provide valuable protection in the future for the covered technology or products. Our pending patent applications might not result in the issuance of valid patents or the claim scope of our issued patents might not provide competitive advantages. Also, our patent protection might not prevent others from developing competitive products using related or other technology that does not infringe our patent rights. The scope, enforceability and effective term of patents can be highly uncertain and often involve complex legal and factual questions and proceedings. No consistent policy has emerged regarding the breadth of claims in pharmaceutical or biotechnology patents, so that even issued patents might later be modified or revoked by the relevant patent authorities or courts. These proceedings could be expensive, last several years and either prevent issuance of additional patents to us or result in a significant reduction in the scope or invalidation of our patents. Moreover, the issuance of a patent in one country does not assure the issuance of a patent with similar claim scope in another country, and claim interpretation and infringement laws vary among countries, so we are unable to predict the extent of patent protection in any country. In addition to seeking the protection of patents and licenses, we also rely upon trade secrets, know-how and continuing technological innovation that we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, suppliers and licensees. If these agreements are not honored, we might not have adequate remedies for any breach. Additionally, our trade secrets might otherwise become known or patented by our competitors. Any inability to protect our intellectual property rights could materially and adversely affect our business. Our operations might be affected by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event. We depend on our clients, investigators, laboratories and other facilities for the continued operation of our business. Although we have contingency plans in effect for natural disasters or other catastrophic events, these events, including terrorist attacks, pandemic flu, hurricanes and ice storms, could still disrupt our operations or those of our clients, investigators and collaboration partners, which could also affect us. In particular, our headquarters are in Wilmington, North Carolina where hurricanes might occur. Even though we carry business interruption insurance policies and typically have provisions in our contracts that protect us in certain events, we might suffer losses as a result of business interruptions that exceed the coverage available under our insurance policies or for which we do not have coverage. Any natural disaster or catastrophic event affecting us or our clients, investigators or collaboration partners could have a significant negative impact on our operations and financial performance. Our operations might be affected if there was a disruption to the air travel system. Our global central laboratories and some of our other services rely heavily on air travel for transport of clinical trial kits, other materials and people, and disruption to the air travel system could have a material adverse effect on our business. While we have developed contingency plans for a variety of events that could disrupt or limit available air transportation, these plans might not be effective or sufficient to avert such a material adverse effect. Risks Related to Owning Our Stock You might not receive any dividends, and the reduction or elimination of dividends might negatively affect the market price of our common stock. We began paying dividends as a public company in late 2005. Future dividend payments are not guaranteed and are within the absolute discretion of our board of directors. You might not receive any dividends as a result of any of the following factors: • we are not obligated to pay dividends; • our board of directors could modify or revoke the dividend policy at any time and for any reason; • even if the dividend policy is not modified or revoked, our board of directors could decide to reduce dividends or not to pay any dividends at all, at any time and for any reason; • the amount of dividends distributed is subject to state law restrictions; • new credit facilities or other agreements could limit the amount of dividends we are permitted to pay; and • our stockholders have no contractual or other legal right to dividends. 26 Table of Contents Our dividend policy is based upon our assessment of the cash needs of our business and the environment in which it operates. That assessment could change due to, among other things, changes in general economic and financial market conditions, our results of operations, cash requirements, financial condition, contractual restrictions, growth opportunities, acquisitions, competitive or technological developments, provisions of applicable law and other factors that our board of directors might deem relevant. The reduction or elimination of dividends might negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Our dividend policy and stock repurchase plan might limit our ability to pursue other growth opportunities. Our board of directors has adopted an annual cash dividend policy which reflects an intention to distribute to our shareholders via regular quarterly dividends a portion of the cash generated by our business that exceeds our operating needs and capital expenditures. In addition, our board of directors authorized the us to repurchase up to $350.0 million of its common stock from time to time in the open market. As of December 31, 2010, $260.7 million remained available for share repurchases under the stock repurchase program, and in February 2011 we used $200.0 million in an accelerated share repurchase program with Barclays Capital. In developing the dividend policy and the stock repurchase plan, we have made assumptions for and judgments about our expected results of operations, anticipated levels of capital expenditures, income taxes and working capital. Payment of dividends or stock repurchases, if any, could limit our ability to finance any material expansion of our business, including through acquisitions, investments or increased capital spending, or to fund our operations. Because our stock price is volatile, our stock price could experience substantial declines. The market price of our common stock has historically experienced and might continue to experience volatility. Our quarterly operating results or anticipated future results, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets, both of which experienced uncertainty in 2009 due to the global financial crisis, and other developments affecting us or our competitors have caused and could continue to cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. These factors include ones beyond our control, such as changes in revenue and earnings estimates by analysts, market conditions within our industry, disclosures by product development partners and actions by regulatory authorities with respect to potential drug candidates, changes in pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries and the government sponsored clinical research sector. In addition, in recent years, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. The stock market, and in particular the market for pharmaceutical and biotechnology company stocks, has also experienced significant decreases in value in the past. This volatility and valuation decline have affected the market prices of securities issued by many companies, often for reasons unrelated to their operating performance, and might adversely affect the price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 27 Table of Contents 