Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. In deciding whether to invest in our common stock, you should consider carefully the following risk factors, as well as the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The materialization of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from the results discussed in the forward looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed in this “Risk Factors” section. See “Forward-Looking Statements” on page 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Related to Our Business Unstable economic conditions may adversely affect our industry, business, financial position and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. The global economy has been undergoing a period of unprecedented volatility which has lead to diminished credit availability, declines in consumer confidence and increases in unemployment rates. There remains much caution about the stability of the U.S. economy due to the ongoing global financial crisis, and there can be no assurances further deterioration in the financial markets will not occur. These economic conditions have resulted in, and could lead to further, reduced consumer spending related to healthcare in general and pharmaceutical products in particular. While generic drugs present a cost-effective alternative to higher-priced branded products, our sales and those of our alliance agreement partners could be negatively affected if patients forego obtaining healthcare. In addition, reduced consumer spending may force our competitors and us to decrease prices. In addition, we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, including our partners under our alliance, research and promotional services agreements, suppliers of raw chemical materials, drug wholesalers and other customers that may be unstable or may become unstable in the current economic environment. Any such instability may affect these parties’ ability to fulfill their respective contractual obligations to us or cause them to limit or place burdensome conditions upon future transactions with us. Significant changes and volatility in the consumer environment and in the competitive landscape may make it increasingly difficult for us to predict our future revenues and earnings. As a result, any cash flow from operations, expenses or other financial guidance or outlook which we have given or might give may be overtaken by future market developments or may otherwise turn out to be inaccurate. Though we endeavor to give reasonable estimates of future revenues and earnings at the time we give such guidance, under current market conditions there is a significant risk that such guidance or outlook will turn out to be incorrect. Furthermore, the global credit markets are currently experiencing an unprecedented contraction. If current pressures on credit continue or worsen, future debt financing may not be available to us when required or may not be available on acceptable terms, and as a result we may be unable to grow our business, take advantage of business opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures. 17 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, timely file our periodic reports, maintain our reporting status or prevent fraud. Our management or our independent registered public accounting firm may identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. The existence of internal control material weaknesses may result in current and potential stockholders and alliance and collaboration agreements’ partners losing confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business, the market price of our common stock, and our ability to retain our current, or obtain new, alliance and collaboration agreements’ partners. In addition, the existence of material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting may affect our ability to timely file periodic reports under the Exchange Act. Although we remedied any past accounting issues and do not believe similar accounting problems are likely to recur, an internal control material weakness may develop in the future and affect our ability to timely file our periodic reports. The inability to timely file periodic reports under the Exchange Act could result in the SEC revoking the registration of our common stock, which would prohibit us from listing or having our stock quoted on any public market. This would have an adverse effect on our business and stock price by limiting the publicly available information regarding us and greatly reducing the ability of our stockholders to sell or trade our common stock. Our revenues and operating income could fluctuate significantly. Our revenues and operating results may vary significantly from year-to-year and quarter to quarter as well as in comparison to the corresponding quarter of the preceding year. Variations may result from, among other factors: • the timing of FDA approvals we receive; • the timing of process validation for particular generic drug products; • the timing of product launches; • the introduction of new products by others that render our products obsolete or noncompetitive; • the ability to maintain selling prices and gross margins on our products; • the outcome of our patent infringement litigation; and • the addition or loss of customers. For example, when we settled our patent infringement litigation relating to our generic version of OxyContin and agreed to terminate sales of our product in early 2008, we revised our estimate of the remaining life of the related DAVA Agreement and adjusted the period of revenue recognition and product manufacturing cost amortization under the DAVA Agreement from 10 years to 27 months (i.e. November 2005 through January 2008). The change in the revenue recognition period for the DAVA Agreement had the short-term effect of increasing revenue for the year ended December 31, 2007, but removed a potential source of revenue for the years ended December 31, 2008 through December 31, 2015. The loss of such revenue materially affected our results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 and may have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. 18 Table of Contents A substantial portion of our total revenues is derived from sales of a limited number of products to a limited number of customers. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from sales of a limited number of products. In 2009 our top five products, accounted for 17%, 10%, 7%, 6% and 6%, respectively, or an aggregate of 46%, of Global products sales, net. The sale of our products can be significantly influenced by market conditions, as well as regulatory actions. We may experience decreases in the sale of our products in the future as a result of actions taken by our competitors, or as a result of regulatory actions related to our products or to competing products, which could have a material impact on our results of operations. Actions which could be taken by our competitors, which may materially impact our results of operations, may include, without limitation, pricing changes and entering or exiting the market for specific products. In addition, we derive a substantial portion of our revenue from sales to a limited number of customers. In 2009, our five major customers, Cardinal Health, McKesson Corporation, Amerisource-Bergen, Teva and Walgreens accounted for 27%, 22%, 15%, 6% and 4%, respectively, or an aggregate of 74%, of our gross revenue. We currently have a long-term contract in effect only with Teva. See “Item 1 Business — Rx Partner and OTC Partner Alliance Agreements — Rx Partner Alliance Agreements.” A reduction in, or loss of business with, any one of these customers, or any failure of a customer to pay us on a timely basis, would adversely affect our business. We face intense competition from both brand-name and generic manufacturers. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and many of our competitors have longer operating histories and substantially greater financial, research and development, marketing, and other resources than we have. In addition, pharmaceutical manufacturers’ customer base consists of an increasingly limited number of large pharmaceutical wholesalers, chain drug stores that warehouse products, mass merchandisers, mail order pharmacies. Our competitors may be able to develop products and delivery technologies competitive with or more effective or less expensive than our own for many reasons, including that they may have: • proprietary processes or delivery systems; • larger research and development and marketing staffs; • larger production capabilities in a particular therapeutic area; • more experience in preclinical testing and human clinical trials; • more experience in obtaining required regulatory approvals, including FDA approval; • more products; or • more experience in developing new drugs and financial resources, particularly with regard to brand manufacturers. The FDA approval process often results in the FDA granting final approval to a number of ANDAs for a given product at the time a patent claim for a corresponding brand product or other market exclusivity expires. This often forces us to face immediate competition when we introduce a generic product into the market. As competition from other manufacturers intensifies, selling prices and gross profit margins often decline, which has been our experience with our existing products. Moreover, with respect to products for which we file a Paragraph IV certification, if we are not the first ANDA filer challenging a listed patent for a product, we are at a significant disadvantage to the competitor that first filed an ANDA for that product containing such a challenge, which is awarded 180 days of market exclusivity for the product. With respect to our 18 disclosed products pending FDA approval for which we have filed Paragraph IV certifications, we believe: (i) unrelated third parties are the first to file with respect to products with which 11 of our products can be expected to compete; (ii) we are the first to file for 5 products; and (iii) we share first to file status with other filers for 2 products. Accordingly, the level of market share, revenue and gross profit attributable to a particular generic product that we develop is generally related to the number of competitors in that product’s market and the timing of that product’s regulatory approval and launch, in relation to competing approvals and launches. Although there is no assurance, we strive to develop and introduce new products in a timely and cost effective manner to be competitive in our industry (see “Item 1 Business — Regulation”). Additionally, ANDA approvals often continue to be granted for a given product subsequent to the initial launch of the generic product. These circumstances generally result in significantly lower prices and reduced margins for generic products compared to brand products. New generic market entrants generally cause continued price and margin erosion over the generic product life cycle. 19 Table of Contents In addition to the competition we face from other generic manufacturers, our competition from brand-name manufacturers involves intensive efforts to thwart generic competition, including sales of their branded products as “authorized generics,” obtaining new patents on drugs whose original patent protection is about to expire, filing patent infringement suits that automatically delay FDA approval of generics, filing “citizen petitions” contesting FDA approvals of generics on alleged health and safety grounds, developing “next generation” versions of products that reduce demand for generic versions we are developing, changing product claims and labeling, and marketing as OTC branded products. Our principal competitors are Sandoz, Inc., Qualitest Pharmaceuticals, URL Pharma Inc., Teva, and Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc. In the brand-name pharmaceutical market, we are not marketing our internally-developed products. However, if we obtain the FDA approval for, and start marketing, our own CNS brand-name pharmaceuticals, we expect that we will be competing with large pharmaceutical companies, other drug delivery companies, and other specialty pharmaceutical companies that have focused on CNS disorders. We have experienced operating losses and negative cash flow from operations in the past, and our future profitability is uncertain. We recorded net income of $ 50.1 million and $ 16.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Although 2007 was our first profitable year, and we continued to record net income in 2008 and 2009, we do not know whether our business will continue to be profitable or generate positive cash flow, and our ability to remain profitable or obtain positive cash flow is uncertain. To remain operational, we must, among other things: • obtain FDA approval of our products; • successfully launch new products; • prevail in patent infringement litigation in which we are involved; • continue to generate or obtain sufficient capital on acceptable terms to fund our operations; and • comply with the many complex governmental regulations that deal with virtually every aspect of our business activities. Our limited capital may require us to modify our business operations and plans by spending less money on research and development programs, developing fewer products, and filing fewer drug applications with the FDA. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, we had cash and cash equivalents of $ 31.8 million and $ 69.3 million, respectively, and our cash used in operations exceeded cash generated from operations in the year ended December 31, 2009. We may not be able to maintain adequate capital at any given time or from time to time in the future, which could result in less money being spent on research and development programs, fewer products being developed or at a slower pace, and fewer drug applications being filed with the FDA. 20 Table of Contents If Wachovia is unable to perform its obligations under our credit agreement or if we are unable to obtain a new credit facility upon the expiration of our credit agreement with Wachovia, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain a new credit agreement with another bank or group of lenders on favorable terms or at all. In December 2005, we entered into a three-year credit agreement with Wachovia Bank, N.A., which was amended in October 2008, December 2008 and March 2009, providing for a $ 35.0 million revolving credit facility intended for working capital and general corporate purposes. There was no amount outstanding under the revolving credit facility as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. Our amended credit agreement with Wachovia terminates on March 31, 2010. If we are unable to negotiate an extension to the credit agreement on similar terms, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain a new credit agreement with another bank or group of lenders on favorable terms or at all. Any delays or unanticipated expenses in connection with the operation of our Taiwan facility could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. In the second half of 2007, we began construction of a new manufacturing facility in Taiwan at an estimated cost of $ 25.0 million, of which we spent an aggregate of approximately $ 24.5 million, in 2009, 2008 and 2007. We estimate the new facility will have an annual production capacity of approximately 450 million tablets and capsules. We completed construction of the facility, installed equipment, and received FDA approval during 2009. We expect equipment qualification for initial commercial manufacturing to be completed in early 2010, and shipments of commercial product to commence thereafter. While we have thus far not suffered any material delays, increases in estimated expenses or other material setbacks associated with the construction and operation of the manufacturing facility, no assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully manufacture process validation batches, or that costs of production will be within our projections. During any potential delays in scale-up of commercial operations, changing market conditions could render projections relating to our investment in the new facility inaccurate or unreliable. While the facility was approved by the FDA in 2009, there can also be no assurance that the facility will continue to receive FDA approval in future inspections. In addition, there can be no assurance that the facility will become operational as anticipated or ultimately result in profitable operations. If the facility does not become operational during 2010, we will, based upon current projections, reach full production capacity at our Hayward, California manufacturing facility. If our manufacturing capacity were to be exceeded by our production requirements, we could lose customers and market share to competing products, and otherwise suffer adverse effects to our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Our business is subject to the economic, political and other risks of maintaining facilities and conducting clinical trials in foreign countries. In 2010, we expect to begin shipment of commercial product from our new manufacturing facility in Taiwan. In addition, certain clinical trials for our product candidates are conducted at multiple sites in Europe. These foreign operations are subject to risks inherent in maintaining operations and doing business abroad, such as economic and political destabilization, international conflicts, restrictive actions by foreign governments, expropriation or nationalization of property, changes in laws and regulations, changes in regulatory requirements, the difficulty of effectively managing diverse global operations, adverse foreign tax laws and the threat posed by potential international disease pandemics in countries that do not have the resources necessary to deal with such outbreaks. These foreign economic, political and other risks could impact our operations and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents Our continued growth is dependent on our ability to continue to successfully introduce new products to the market. Sales of a limited number of our products often represent a significant portion of our revenues in a given period. Revenue from newly launched products that we are the first to market is typically relatively high during the period immediately following launch and can be expected generally to decline over time. Revenue from generic drugs in general can also be expected to decline over time. Our continued growth is therefore dependent upon our ability to continue to successfully introduce new products. As of February 15, 2010, we had 32 applications pending at the FDA for generic versions of brand-name pharmaceuticals. The FDA and the regulatory authorities may not approve our products submitted to them or our other products under development. Additionally, we may not successfully complete our development efforts. Even if the FDA approves our products, we may not be able to market them if we do not prevail in the patent infringement litigation in which we are involved. Our future results of operations will depend significantly upon our ability to develop, receive FDA approval for, and market new pharmaceutical products or otherwise acquire new products. We are routinely subject to patent litigation that can delay or prevent our commercialization of products, force us to incur substantial expense to defend, and expose us to substantial liability. Brand-name pharmaceutical manufacturers routinely bring patent infringement litigation against ANDA applicants seeking FDA approval to manufacture and market generic forms of their branded products. Likewise, patent holders may bring patent infringement suits against companies that are currently marketing and selling their approved generic products. Patent infringement litigation involves many complex technical and legal issues and its outcome is often difficult to predict, and the risk involved in doing so can be substantial, because the remedies available to the owner of a patent in the event of an unfavorable outcome include damages measured by the profits lost by the patent owner rather than the profits earned by the infringer. Such litigation usually involves significant expense and can delay or prevent introduction or sale of our products. As of February 15, 2010, we were involved in 12 patent infringement suits involving the following products: (i) Fexofenadine/Pseudoephedrine Tablets (generic to Allegra-D®); (ii) Oxymorphone HCl Extended Release (“ER”) Tablets 5 mg, 7.5 mg, 10 mg, 15 mg, 20 mg, 30 mg and 40 mg (generic to Opana® ER); (iii) Tolterodine Tartrate ER Capsules, 2 mg and 4 mg (generic to Detrol LA®); (iv) Tramadol Hydrochloride ER Tablets 100 mg, 200 mg and 300 mg (generic to Ultram® ER); (v) Duloxetine Hydrochloride DR Capsules 20 mg, 30 mg, and 60 mg (generic to Cymbalta®); (vi) Doxycycline Hyclate DR Tablets 75 mg, 100 mg and 150 mg (generic to DORYX®); (vii) Cyclobenzaprine Hydrochloride ER Capsules, 15mg and 30mg (generic to Amrix®); (viii) Sevelamer Hydrochloride Tablets, 400 mg and 800 mg (generic to Renagel®); (ix) Sevelamer Carbonate Tablets, 800 mg (generic to Renvela®); (x) Doxycycline Monohydrate Delayed-Release Capsules, 40 mg (generic to Oracea®); (xi) Fenofibrate Tablets, 48 mg and 145 mg (generic to Tricor®); and (xii) Colesevelam 625 mg (generic to Welchol®). For the year ended December 31, 2009, we incurred costs of approximately $ 4.9 million in connection with our participation in these matters, which are in varying stages of litigation. If any of these patent litigation matters are resolved unfavorably, we or any alliance or collaboration partners may be enjoined from manufacturing or selling the product that is the subject of such litigation without a license from the other party. In addition, if we decide to market and sell products prior to the resolution of patent infringement suits, we could be held liable for lost profits if we are found to have infringed a valid patent, or liable for treble damages if we are found to have willfully infringed a valid patent. As a result, any patent litigation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects, although it is not possible to quantify the liability we could incur if any of these suits are decided against us. Our ability to develop or license, or otherwise acquire, and introduce new products on a timely basis in relation to our competitors’ product introductions involves inherent risks and uncertainties. Product development is inherently risky, especially for new drugs for which safety and efficacy have not been established and the market is not yet proven. Likewise, product licensing involves inherent risks including uncertainties due to matters that may affect the achievement of milestones, as well as the possibility of contractual disagreements with regard to terms such as license scope or termination rights. The development and commercialization process, particularly with regard to new drugs, also requires substantial time, effort and financial resources. The process of obtaining FDA approval to manufacture and market new and generic pharmaceutical products is rigorous, time consuming, costly and largely unpredictable. We, or a partner, may not be successful in obtaining FDA approval or in commercializing any of the products that we are developing or licensing. 22 Table of Contents Our approved products may not achieve expected levels of market acceptance. Even if we are able to obtain regulatory approvals for our new products, the success of those products is dependent upon market acceptance. Levels of market acceptance for our new products could be affected by several factors, including: • the availability of alternative products from our competitors; • the prices of our products relative to those of our competitors; • the timing of our market entry; • the ability to market our products effectively at the retail level; and • the acceptance of our products by government and private formularies. Some of these factors are not within our control, and our products may not achieve expected levels of market acceptance. Additionally, continuing and increasingly sophisticated studies of the proper utilization, safety and efficacy of pharmaceutical products are being conducted by the industry, government agencies and others can call into question the utilization, safety and efficacy of previously marketed products. In some cases, studies have resulted, and may in the future result, in the discontinuance of product marketing or other risk management programs such as the need for a patient registry. We expend a significant amount of resources on research and development efforts that may not lead to successful product introductions. We conduct research and development primarily to enable us to manufacture and market pharmaceuticals in accordance with FDA regulations. We spent approximately $ 63.3 million, $ 59.2 million and $ 40.0 million on research and development activities during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We estimate that our research and development expenses in 2010 will be approximately $ 77.0 million. We are required to obtain FDA approval before marketing our drug products. The FDA approval process is costly and time consuming. Typically, research expenses related to the development of innovative compounds and the filing of NDAs are significantly greater than those expenses associated with ANDAs. As we continue to develop new products, our research expenses will likely increase. Because of the inherent risk associated with research and development efforts in our industry, particularly with respect to new drugs, our research and development expenditures may not result in the successful introduction of FDA approved pharmaceuticals. Our bioequivalence studies, other clinical studies and/or other data may not result in FDA approval to market our new drug products. While we believe that the FDA’s ANDA procedures will apply to our bioequivalent versions of controlled-release drugs, these drugs may not be suitable for, or approved as part of, these abbreviated applications. In addition, even if our drug products are suitable for FDA approval by filing an ANDA, the abbreviated applications are costly and time consuming to complete. After we submit an NDA or ANDA, the FDA may require that we conduct additional studies, and as a result, we may be unable to reasonably determine the total research and development costs to develop a particular product. Also, for products pending approval, we may obtain raw materials or produce batches of inventory to be used in anticipation of the product’s launch. In the event that FDA approval is denied or delayed, we could be exposed to the risk of this inventory becoming obsolete. Finally, we cannot be certain that any investment made in developing products or product-delivery technologies will be recovered, even if we are successful in commercialization. To the extent that we expend significant resources on research and development efforts and are not able, ultimately, to introduce successful new products or new delivery technologies as a result of those efforts, we will be unable to recover those expenditures. 23 Table of Contents The time necessary to develop generic drugs may adversely affect whether, and the extent to which, we receive a return on our capital. We generally begin our development activities for a new generic drug product several years in advance of the patent expiration date of the brand-name drug equivalent. The development process, including drug formulation, testing, and FDA review and approval, often takes three or more years. This process requires that we expend considerable capital to pursue activities that do not yield an immediate or near-term return. Also, because of the significant time necessary to develop a product, the actual market for a product at the time it is available for sale may be significantly less than the originally projected market for the product. If this were to occur, our potential return on our investment in developing the product, if approved for marketing by the FDA, would be adversely affected and we may never receive a return on our investment in the product. It is also possible for the manufacturer of the brand-name product for which we are developing a generic drug to obtain approvals from the FDA to switch the brand-name drug from the prescription market to the OTC market. If this were to occur, we would be prohibited from marketing our product other than as an OTC drug, in which case revenues could be substantially less than we anticipated. Approvals for our new drug products may be delayed or become more difficult to obtain if the FDA institutes changes to its approval requirements. Some abbreviated application procedures for controlled-release drugs and other products, including those related to our ANDA filings, are or may become the subject of petitions filed by brand-name drug manufacturers seeking changes from the FDA in the approval requirements for particular drugs as part of their strategy to thwart generic competition. We cannot predict whether the FDA will make any changes to its abbreviated application requirements as a result of these petitions, or the effect that any changes may have on us. Any changes in FDA regulations may make it more difficult for us to file ANDAs or obtain approval of our ANDAs and generate revenues and thus may materially harm our business and financial results. Our inexperience in conducting clinical trials and submitting New Drug Applications could result in delays or failure in development and commercialization of our own branded products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, and financial condition. With respect to products that we develop that are not generic equivalents of existing brand-name drugs and thus do not qualify for the FDA’s abbreviated application procedures, we must demonstrate through clinical trials that these products are safe and effective for use. We have only limited experience in conducting and supervising clinical trials. The process of completing clinical trials and preparing an NDA may take several years and requires substantial resources. Our studies and filings may not result in FDA approval to market our new drug products and, if the FDA grants approval, we cannot predict the timing of any approval. There are substantial filing fees for NDAs that are not refundable if FDA approval is not obtained. There is no assurance that our expenses related to NDAs and clinical trials will lead to the development of brand-name drugs that will generate revenues in the near future. Delays or failure in the development and commercialization of our own branded products could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. 24 Table of Contents The risks and uncertainties inherent in conducting clinical trials could delay or prevent the development and commercialization of our own branded products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, financial condition, and growth prospects. There are a number of risks and uncertainties associated with clinical trials. The results of clinical trials may not be indicative of results that would be obtained from large scale testing. Clinical trials are often conducted with patients having advanced stages of disease and, as a result, during the course of treatment these patients can die or suffer adverse medical effects for reasons that may not be related to the pharmaceutical agents being tested, but which nevertheless affect the clinical trial results. In addition, side effects experienced by the patients may cause delay of approval or limited profile of an approved product. Moreover, our clinical trials may not demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to obtain FDA approval. Failure can occur at any time during the clinical trial process and, in addition, the results from early clinical trials may not be predictive of results obtained in later and larger clinical trials, and product candidates in later clinical trials may fail to show the desired safety or efficacy despite having progressed successfully through earlier clinical testing. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including us, have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, even in advanced clinical trials after showing positive results in earlier clinical trials. For example, we had sought to develop a product containing carbidopa/levodopa for the treatment of Parkinson’s Disease. Following completion of the clinical trials and submission of the NDA, the NDA was not approved due to the FDA’s concerns over product nomenclature and the potential for medication errors. In the future, the completion of clinical trials for our product candidates may be delayed or halted for many reasons, including: • delays in patient enrollment, and variability in the number and types of patients available for clinical trials; • regulators or institutional review boards may not allow us to commence or continue a clinical trial; • our inability, or the inability of our partners, to manufacture or obtain from third parties materials sufficient to complete our clinical trials; • delays or failure in reaching agreement on acceptable clinical trial contracts or clinical trial protocols with prospective clinical trial sites; • risks associated with trial design, which may result in a failure of the trial to show statistically significant results even if the product candidate is effective; • difficulty in maintaining contact with patients after treatment commences, resulting in incomplete data; • poor effectiveness of product candidates during clinical trials; • safety issues, including adverse events associated with product candidates; • the failure of patients to complete clinical trials due to adverse side effects, dissatisfaction with the product candidate, or other reasons; • governmental or regulatory delays or changes in regulatory requirements, policy and guidelines; and • varying interpretation of data by the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies. In addition, our product candidates could be subject to competition for clinical study sites and patients from other therapies under development which may delay the enrollment in or initiation of our clinical trials. Many of these companies have more significant resources than we do. The FDA or foreign regulatory authorities may require us to conduct unanticipated additional clinical trials, which could result in additional expense and delays in bringing our product candidates to market. Any failure or delay in completing clinical trials for our product candidates would prevent or delay the commercialization of our product candidates. There is no assurance our expenses related to clinical trials will lead to the development of brand-name drugs which will generate revenues in the near future. Delays or failure in the development and commercialization of our own branded products could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, financial condition, and our growth prospects. 25 Table of Contents We rely on third parties to conduct clinical trials for our product candidates, and if they do not properly and successfully perform their legal and regulatory obligations, as well as their contractual obligations to us, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals for our product candidates. We design the clinical trials for our product candidates, but rely on contract research organizations and other third parties to assist us in managing, monitoring and otherwise carrying out these trials, including with respect to site selection, contract negotiation and data management. We do not control these third parties and, as a result, they may not treat our clinical studies as their highest priority, or in the manner in which we would prefer, which could result in delays. Although we rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, we are responsible for confirming that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with our general investigational plan and protocol. Moreover, the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies require us to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices, for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to ensure that the data and results are credible and accurate and that the trial participants are adequately protected. Our reliance on third parties does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. The FDA enforces good clinical practices through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, principal investigators and trial sites. If we, our contract research organizations or our study sites fail to comply with applicable good clinical practices, the clinical data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and the FDA may require us to perform additional clinical trials before approving our marketing applications. We cannot assure you that, upon inspection, the FDA will determine that any of our clinical trials comply with good clinical practices. In addition, our clinical trials must be conducted with product manufactured under the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, regulations. Our failure or the failure of our contract manufacturers if any are involved in the process, to comply with these regulations may require us to repeat clinical trials, which would delay the regulatory approval process. If third parties do not successfully carry out their duties under their agreements with us; if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements; or if they otherwise fail to comply with clinical trial protocols or meet expected deadlines; our clinical trials may not meet regulatory requirements. If our clinical trials do not meet regulatory requirements or if these third parties need to be replaced, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated. If any of these events occur, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval of our product candidates. 26 Table of Contents We are dependent on a small number of suppliers for our raw materials that we use to manufacture our products. We typically purchase the ingredients, other materials and supplies that we use in the manufacturing of our products, as well as certain finished products, from a small number of foreign and domestic suppliers. The FDA requires identification of raw material suppliers in applications for approval of drug products. If raw materials were unavailable from a specified supplier or the supplier was not in compliance with FDA or other applicable requirements, the FDA approval of a new supplier could delay the manufacture of the drug involved. As a result, there is no guarantee we will always have timely and sufficient access to a required raw material or other product. In addition, some materials used in our products are currently available from only one supplier or a limited number of suppliers. Generally, we would need as much as 18 months to find and qualify a new sole-source supplier. If we receive less than one year’s termination notice from a sole-source supplier that it intends to cease supplying raw materials, it could result in disruption of our ability to produce the drug involved. Further, a significant portion of our raw materials may be available only from foreign sources. Foreign sources can be subject to the special risks of doing business abroad, including: • greater possibility for disruption due to transportation or communication problems; • the relative instability of some foreign governments and economies; • interim price volatility based on labor unrest, materials or equipment shortages, export duties, restrictions on the transfer of funds, or fluctuations in currency exchange rates; and • uncertainty regarding recourse to a dependable legal system for the enforcement of contracts and other rights. Those of our raw materials that are available from a limited number of suppliers are Bendroflumethiazide, Chloroquine, Colestipol, Digoxin, Flavoxate, Methyltestosterone, Nadolol, Orphenadrine, Terbutaline and Klucel, all of which are active pharmaceutical ingredients except Klucel, which is an excipient used in several product formulations. The manufacturers of two of these products, Formosa Laboratories, Ltd. and a division of Ashland, Inc., are sole-source suppliers. While none of the active ingredients is individually significant to our business, the excipient, while not covered by a supply agreement, is utilized in a number of significant products, it is manufactured for a number of industrial applications and supplies have been readily available. Only one of the active ingredients is covered by a long-term supply agreement and, while we have experienced occasional interruptions in supplies, none has had a material effect on our operations. Any inability to obtain raw materials on a timely basis, or any significant price increases which cannot be passed on to customers, could have a material adverse effect on us. Many third-party suppliers are subject to governmental regulation and, accordingly, we are dependent on the regulatory compliance of these third parties. We also depend on the strength, enforceability and terms of our various contracts with these third-party suppliers. 27 Table of Contents We depend on qualified scientific and technical employees, and our limited resources may make it more difficult to attract and retain these personnel. Because of the specialized scientific nature of our business, we are highly dependent upon our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified scientific and technical personnel. We are not aware of any pending, significant losses of scientific or technical personnel. Loss of the services of, or failure to recruit, key scientific and technical personnel, however, would be significantly detrimental to our product-development programs. As a result of our small size and limited financial and other resources, it may be difficult for us to attract and retain qualified officers and qualified scientific and technical personnel. In January 2010, we entered into employment agreements with our executive officers and certain other key employees. Under the employment agreements, the employee may terminate his or her employment upon 60 days prior written notice to us. All of our other key personnel are employed on an at-will basis with no formal employment agreements. We purchase a life insurance policy as an employee benefit for Dr. Hsu, but do not maintain “Key Man” life insurance on any executives. We may be adversely affected by alliance agreements or licensing arrangements we make with other companies. We have entered into several alliance agreements or license agreements with respect to certain of our products and may enter into similar agreements in the future. These arrangements may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies or product candidates, or to grant licenses on terms that ultimately may prove to be unfavorable to us, either of which could reduce the value of our common stock. Relationships with alliance agreements’ partners may include risks due to incomplete information regarding the marketplace, inventories, and commercial strategies of our alliance agreements’ partners, and our alliance agreements and /or other licensing agreements may be the subject of contractual disputes. If we or our alliance agreements’ partners are not successful in commercializing the alliance agreements’ products, such commercial failure could adversely affect our business. We are subject to significant costs and uncertainties related to compliance with the extensive regulations that govern the manufacturing, labeling, distribution, and promotion of pharmaceutical products as well as environmental, safety and health regulations. The manufacturing, distribution, processing, formulation, packaging, labeling and advertising of our products are subject to extensive regulation by federal agencies, including the FDA, DEA, Federal Trade Commission, Consumer Product Safety Commission and Environmental Protection Agency, among others. We are also subject to state and local laws, regulations and agencies in California, Pennsylvania and elsewhere, as well as the laws and regulations of Taiwan. Compliance with these regulations requires substantial expenditures of time, money and effort in such areas as production and quality control to ensure full technical compliance. Failure to comply with FDA and other governmental regulations can result in fines, disgorgement, unanticipated compliance expenditures, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, suspension of the FDA’s review of NDAs or ANDAs, enforcement actions, injunctions and civil or criminal prosecution. We cannot accurately predict the outcome or timing of future expenditures that we may be required to make in order to comply with the federal, state, and local environmental, safety, and health laws and regulations that are applicable to our operations and facilities. We are also subject to potential liability for the remediation of contamination associated with both present and past hazardous waste generation, handling, and disposal activities. We are subject periodically to environmental compliance reviews by environmental, safety, and health regulatory agencies. Environmental laws have changed in recent years and we may become subject to stricter environmental standards in the future and face larger capital expenditures in order to comply with environmental laws. 28 Table of Contents We may experience reductions in the levels of reimbursement for pharmaceutical products by governmental authorities, HMOs or other third-party payers. Any such reductions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Various governmental authorities and private health insurers and other organizations, such as HMOs, provide reimbursement to consumers for the cost of certain pharmaceutical products. Demand for our products depends in part on the extent to which such reimbursement is available. In addition, third-party payers are attempting to control costs by limiting the level of reimbursement for medical products, including pharmaceuticals, and increasingly challenge the pricing of these products which may adversely affect the pricing of our products. Moreover, health care reform has been, and is expected to continue to be, an area of national and state focus, which could result in the adoption of measures that could adversely affect the pricing of pharmaceuticals or the amount of reimbursement available from third-party payers for our products. Reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid rebate program and other government programs are complex, and failure to comply could result in sanctions and penalties or we could be required to reimburse the government for underpayments, which could have a material adverse affect on our business. Medicaid and other government reporting and payment obligations are highly complex and somewhat ambiguous. State attorneys general and the U.S. Department of Justice have brought suits or instituted investigations against a number of other pharmaceutical companies for failure to comply with Medicaid and other government reporting obligations. Our methodologies for making these calculations are complex and the judgments involved require us to make subjective decisions, such that these calculations are subject to the risk of errors. Government agencies may impose civil or criminal sanctions, including fines, penalties and possible exclusion from federal health care programs, including Medicaid and Medicare. Any such penalties or sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our business. Legislative or regulatory programs that may influence prices of prescription drugs could have a material adverse effect on our business. Current or future federal or state laws and regulations may influence the prices of drugs and, therefore, could adversely affect the prices that we receive for our products. Programs in existence in certain states seek to set prices of all drugs sold within those states through the regulation and administration of the sale of prescription drugs. Expansion of these programs, in particular, state Medicaid programs, or changes required in the way in which Medicaid rebates are calculated under such programs, could adversely affect the price we receive for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Decreases in health care reimbursements could limit our ability to sell our products or decrease our revenues. 29 Table of Contents Our failure to comply with the legal and regulatory requirements governing the healthcare industry may result in substantial fines, sanctions and restrictions on our business activities. Our practices and activities related to the sales and marketing of our products, as well as the pricing of our products, are subject to extensive regulation under U.S. federal and state healthcare statutes and regulations intended to combat fraud and abuse to federal and state healthcare payment programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, Tri-Care, CHAMPUS, and Department of Defense programs. These laws include the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, the federal False Claims Act, and similar state laws and implementing regulations. For example, the payment of any incentive to a healthcare provider to induce the recommendation of our product or the purchase of our products reimbursable under a federal or state program would be considered a prohibited promotional practice under these laws. Similarly, the inaccurate reporting of prices leading to inflated reimbursement rates would also be considered a violation of these laws. These laws and regulations are enforced by the U.S. Department of Justice, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Inspector General, state Medicaid Fraud Units and other state enforcement agencies. Violations of these laws and regulations are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including substantial fines and penal sanctions, such as imprisonment. It is common for enforcement agencies to initiate investigations into sales and marketing practices, as well as pricing practices, regardless of merit. These types of investigations and any related litigation can result in: (i) large expenditures of cash for legal fees, payment for penalties, and compliance activities; (ii) limitations on operations, (iii) diversion of management resources, (iv) injury to our reputation; and (v) decreased demand for our products. While we believe that our practices and activities related to sales and marketing, and the pricing of our products, are in compliance with these fraud and abuse laws, the criteria for compliance are often complex and subject to change and interpretation. An aggressive investigation by an enforcement agency could have a material negative impact on our business and results of operations. 30 Table of Contents Healthcare policy changes, including pending proposals to reform the U.S. healthcare system, may harm our future business. Healthcare costs have risen significantly over the past decade. There have been, and continue to be, proposals by the President of the United States, the United States Congress, including both the U.S. House of Representative and the U.S. Senate, and federal and state healthcare regulatory agencies, to reduce healthcare spending and contain costs. Certain reform initiatives, if passed, would impose price limitations on currently marketed products and future products currently under development or require us to agree to provide product rebates on certain items to government payors, which may be significant. These limitations could, in turn, reduce the amount of revenues that we will be able to ultimately earn in the future from sales of our products and services. The Administration of President Obama, together with Members of the United States Congress, and state leaders have expressed a strong desire to reform the U.S. health care system, to address the primary issues of access to care, affordability, and sustainability. Throughout 2009 and into 2010, the Administration of President Obama and the United States Congress worked to achieve health care reform. On November 7, 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a healthcare reform bill to require most individuals to have health insurance, establish new regulations on health plans, create insurance pooling mechanisms and a government health insurance option to compete with private plans and other expanded public health care measures. On December 24, 2009, the U.S. Senate passed its version of the health reform bill, which, among other items, eliminated the public option and decentralized certain oversight functions. Significantly, during the reform process, the Administration of President Obama asked the pharmaceutical industry to commit up to $ 80 billion (and the generic industry up to $ 10 billion) in agreements to achieve projected tax-payer savings over a 10 year period. To the pharmaceutical industry, this meant: (i) an increase in rebates (i.e. product pricing discounts) to Medicaid of $34 billion; (ii) greater flexibility for generics to produce follow-on biologicals from branded drug products (up to $ 9 billion); (iii) offering discounts of up to 50% (approximately $ 25 billion) to certain qualified patients; and (iv) agreement to an industry tax assessment of $ 12 billion. While none of these measures are currently in effect and we cannot predict when or which measures may become effective, they illustrate the impact that healthcare reform legislation may have on us and the pharmaceutical industry as a whole. Although the generic industry may benefit from some measures, such as an increased ability for generic companies to produce follow-on biologicals, the balance of the industry reform measures, if adopted as proposed, could result in a material adverse effect to our results of operations and could increase our costs of operation, decrease earnings, and adversely affect our overall business. We depend on our intellectual property, and our future success is dependent on our ability to protect our intellectual property and not infringe on the rights of others. We believe intellectual property protection is important to our business and that our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to maintain trade secret protection and operate without infringing on the rights of others. We cannot assure you that: • any of our future processes or products will be patentable; • our processes or products will not infringe upon the patents of third parties; or • we will have the resources to defend against charges of patent infringement by third parties or to protect our own rights against infringement by third parties. We rely on trade secrets and proprietary knowledge related to our products and technology which we generally seek to protect by confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with employees, consultants, licensees and pharmaceutical companies. If these agreements are breached, we may not have adequate remedies for any breach, and our trade secrets may otherwise become known by our competitors. 31 Table of Contents We are subject to potential product liability claims that can result in substantial litigation costs and liability. The design, development and manufacture of pharmaceutical products involve an inherent risk of product liability claims and associated adverse publicity. Product liability insurance coverage is expensive, difficult to obtain, and may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. Although we currently carry $ 80.0 million of such insurance, we believe that no reasonable amount of insurance can fully protect against all such risks because of the potential liability inherent in the business of producing pharmaceutical products for human consumption. We face risks relating to our goodwill and intangibles. At December 31, 2009, our goodwill, which was originally generated as a result of the December 1999 merger of Global Pharmaceuticals Corporation and Impax Pharmaceuticals, Inc., was approximately $ 27.6 million, or approximately 4% of our total assets. We may never realize the value of our goodwill and intangibles. We will continue to evaluate, on a regular basis, whether events or circumstances have occurred to indicate all, or a portion, of the carrying amount of goodwill may no longer be recoverable, in which case an impairment charge to earnings would become necessary. Although as of December 31, 2009, the carrying value of goodwill was not impaired based on our assessment performed in accordance with GAAP, any such future determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of carrying value of goodwill could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. If we are unable to manage our growth, our business will suffer. We have experienced rapid growth in the past several years and anticipate continued rapid expansion in the future. The number of ANDAs pending approval at the FDA has increased from 11 at June 30, 2001 to 32 at February 15, 2010. This growth has required us to expand, upgrade, and improve our administrative, operational, and management systems, internal controls and resources. We anticipate additional growth in connection with the expansion of our manufacturing operations, development of our brand-name products, and our marketing and sales efforts for the products we develop. Although we cannot assure you that we will, in fact, grow as we expect, if we fail to manage growth effectively or to develop a successful marketing approach, our business and financial results will be materially harmed. 32 Table of Contents There are inherent uncertainties involved in estimates, judgments and assumptions used in the preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP. Any future changes in estimates, judgments and assumptions used or necessary revisions to prior estimates; judgments or assumptions could lead to a restatement of our results. The consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are prepared in accordance with GAAP. This involves making estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets (including intangible assets), liabilities, revenues, expenses and income. Estimates, judgments and assumptions are inherently subject to change in the future and any necessary revisions to prior estimates, judgments or assumptions could lead to a restatement. Any such changes could result in corresponding changes to the amounts of assets (including goodwill and other intangible assets), liabilities, revenues, expenses and income. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may adversely affect our business. Terrorist attacks at or nearby our facilities in Hayward, California, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, or our manufacturing facility in Taiwan may negatively affect our operations. While we do not believe that we are more susceptible to such attacks than other companies, such attacks could directly affect our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers and could make the transportation of our products more difficult and more expensive and ultimately affect our sales. We carry insurance coverage on our facilities of types and in amounts that we believe are in line with coverage customarily obtained by owners of similar properties. We continue to monitor the state of the insurance market in general and the scope and cost of coverage for acts of terrorism in particular, but we cannot anticipate what coverage will be available on commercially reasonable terms in future policy years. Currently, we carry terrorism insurance as part of our property and casualty and business interruption coverage. If we experience a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds policy limits, we could lose the capital invested in the damaged facilities, as well as the anticipated future net sales from those facilities. Because of the location of our manufacturing and research and development facilities, our operations could be interrupted by an earthquake or be susceptible to climate changes. Our corporate headquarters in California, manufacturing operations in California and Taiwan, and research and development activities related to process technologies are located near major earthquake fault lines. Although we have other facilities, we produce a substantial portion of our products at our California facility. A disruption at these California facilities due to an earthquake, other natural disaster, or due to climate changes, even on a short-term basis, could impair our ability to produce and ship products to the market on a timely basis. In addition, we could experience a destruction of facilities which would be costly to rebuild, or loss of life, all of which could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. We presently carry $ 10.0 million of earthquake coverage which covers all of our facilities on a worldwide basis. We carry an additional $ 30.0 million of earthquake coverage specifically for our California facilities. We believe the aggregate amount of earthquake coverage we currently carry is appropriate in light of the risks; however, the amount of our earthquake insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover losses from earthquakes. We may discontinue some or all of this insurance coverage in the future if the cost of premiums exceeds the value of the coverage discounted for the risk of loss. If we experience a loss which is uninsured or which exceeds policy limits, we could lose the capital invested in the damaged facilities, as well as the anticipated future net sales from those facilities. 33 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Stock There is currently a limited market for our common stock. Although our common stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Global Market, the trading in our common stock may have less liquidity than the trading in the securities of many other companies listed on that market. A public trading market in our common stock having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the market of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. In the event an active market for our common stock does not develop, you may be unable to resell your shares of common stock at or above the price at which you acquired the shares or at any price. In addition, given the lower trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of our common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause the price of our common stock to fall. Our stock price is volatile. The stock market has, from time to time, experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. In addition, the market price of our common stock, like the stock price of many publicly traded specialty pharmaceutical companies, is volatile. For example, the sale price of our stock during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 ranged from a high of $ 13.87 during the quarter ended December 31, 2009 to a low of $ 2.50 during the quarter ended March 31, 2009. Prices of our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including: • our ability to maintain compliance with SEC reporting requirements; • our ability to maintain the listing of our common stock on The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC; • investor perception of us; • analyst recommendations; • market conditions relating to specialty pharmaceutical companies; • announcements of new products by us or our competitors; • publicity regarding actual or potential developments relating to products under development by us or our competitors; • developments, disputes or litigation concerning patent or proprietary rights; • delays in the development or approval of our product candidates; • regulatory developments; • period to period fluctuations in our financial results and those of our competitors; • future sales of substantial amounts of common stock by stockholders; and • economic and other external factors. 34 Table of Contents We have adopted certain provisions that may have the effect of hindering, delaying or preventing third party takeovers, which may prevent our stockholders from receiving premium prices for shares of their common stock in an unsolicited takeover. We have adopted a stockholder rights plan and initially declared a dividend distribution of one right for each outstanding share of common stock to stockholders of record as of January 30, 2009. Each Right entitles the holder to purchase one one-thousandth of a share of our Series A junior participating preferred stock for $15, subject to adjustment. Under certain circumstances, if a person or group acquires, or announces its intention to acquire, beneficial ownership of 20% or more of our outstanding common stock, each holder of such right (other than the third party triggering such exercise), would be able to purchase, upon exercise of the right at the then applicable exercise price (currently $ 15), that number of shares of our common stock having a market value of two times the exercise price of the right (currently $ 30). Subject to certain exceptions, if we are consolidated with, or merged into, another entity and we are not the surviving entity in such transaction or shares of our outstanding common stock are exchanged for securities of any other person, cash or any other property, or more than 50% of our assets or earning power is sold or transferred, then each holder of the right would be able to purchase, upon the exercise of the right at the then applicable exercise price (currently $ 15), the number of shares of common stock of the third party acquirer having a market value of two times the exercise price of the right (currently $ 30). The rights expire on January 20, 2012, unless extended by our board of directors. If our board of directors does not redeem the rights or amend the rights agreement to make it inapplicable to the foregoing acquisitions, mergers or similar transactions, the rights when exercised could significantly increase the cost for a third party acquirer seeking to acquire control of us on an unsolicited basis or substantially dilute the equity ownership of such third party acquirer. As a result, the existence of the rights agreement could deter potential third party acquirers from attempting to acquire us on an unsolicited basis and reduce the likelihood that stockholders will receive a premium for our common stock in such a transaction. In addition, under our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, our board of directors has authority to issue 2,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock, of which 100,000 shares were designated as series A junior participating preferred stock, which also may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us without the approval of our board of directors. Blank check preferred stock enables our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to designate and issue additional series of preferred stock with such dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights, including the right to issue convertible securities with no limitations on conversion, as our board of directors may determine are appropriate, including rights to dividends and proceeds in a liquidation that are senior to our common stock. We do not pay dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. We have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock and we do not plan to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We plan to retain any earnings for the operation and expansion of our business. As a Delaware corporation, we may not declare or pay a dividend on our capital stock if the amount paid exceeds an amount equal to the surplus, which represents the excess of our net assets over paid-in capital or, if there is no surplus, our net profits for the current or immediately preceding year. In addition, our loan agreement prohibits the payment of dividends without the lender’s consent. As we do not intend to declare dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, any gains on your investment will result from an increase in our stock price, which may or may not occur. 35 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 