ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to the Company’s Financial Results The Company has experienced significant losses, expects losses in the future, has limited resources and there is substantial doubt as to the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. The Company is a clinical-stage biotechnology company with a limited operating history and a single product candidate in clinical trials, VIA-2291. The Company is not profitable and its current operating business has incurred losses in each year since the inception of the Company in 2004. The Company currently does not have any products that have been approved for marketing, and the Company will continue to incur significant research and development and general and administrative expenses related to its operations. The Company’s net loss for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 was approximately $21.0 million and $20.3 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had an accumulated deficit of approximately $81.6 million. The Company expects that it will continue to incur significant losses for the foreseeable future, and the Company may never achieve or sustain profitability. If the Company’s product candidates, including VIA-2291, fail in clinical trials or do not gain regulatory approval, or if the Company’s future products do not achieve market acceptance, the Company may never become profitable. Even if the Company achieves profitability in the future, it may not be able to sustain profitability in subsequent periods. Failure to obtain adequate financing in the near term will adversely affect the Company’s ability to operate as a going concern. The Company’s ability to continue as a going concern is also dependent upon its ability to control its operating expenses and its ability to achieve a level of revenues adequate to support its capital and operating requirements. The factors described in the auditor’s report and Note 1 and Note 12 in the Notes to the Financial Statements may make it more difficult for the Company to obtain additional financing, and there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain such financing on favorable terms, or at all. As a result of the Company’s losses to date, expected losses in the future, limited capital resources, including cash on hand, and accumulated deficit, the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm concluded that there is substantial doubt as to the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, and accordingly, included an explanatory paragraph describing conditions that raise substantial doubt about its ability to continue as a going concern in their report on the Company’s December 31, 2009 financial statements. The Company will require substantial additional funding in the near term to continue operating its business, which may not be available to the Company on acceptable terms, or at all, which could force the Company to delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of its research and development programs, or ultimately cease operations. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had $2.2 million in cash. As described under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 below and in Note 6 in the Notes to the Financial Statements, in March 2009, the Company entered into a loan (the “March 2009 Loan”) with its principal stockholder, Bay City Capital, and one of Bay City Capital’s affiliates (the “Lenders”) whereby the Lenders agreed to lend to the Company in the aggregate up to $10.0 million, which loan is secured by all of the Company’s assets, including its intellectual property, and accrues interest at the rate of 15% per annum, which increases to 18% per annum following an event of default. As of September 11, 2009, the Company had drawn down the full amount from the debt facility. As described in “Other Information” in Part II, Item 9B and in Note 12 in the Notes to the Financial Statements, the Company entered into another loan (the “March 2010 Loan”) with the Lenders whereby the Lenders agreed to lend to the Company in the aggregate up to $3.0 million, which loan is secured by all of the Company’s assets, including its intellectual property, and accrues interest at the rate of 15% 16 Table of Contents per annum, which increases to 18% per annum following an event of default. On March 29, 2010, the Company borrowed an initial amount of $1,250,000. Management believes that the total amount of cash borrowed under the March 2010 Loan, if fully drawn, will enable the Company to meet its current obligations into the third quarter of 2010. Management does not believe that existing cash resources will be sufficient to enable the Company to meet its ongoing working capital requirements for the next twelve months and the Company will need to raise substantial additional funding in the near term to meet its working capital requirements and to continue its research, development and commercialization activities. Current funds and additional funds raised will be required to: • fund the business operations of the Company, including general and administrative expenses and the expenses surrounding the restructuring as described in “Other Information” in Part II, Item 9B and in Note 12 in the Notes to the Financial Statements; • fund clinical trials and seek regulatory approvals; • pursue and implement strategic partnering transactions; • pursue the development of additional product candidates; • conduct and expand the Company’s research and development activities; • access manufacturing and commercialization capabilities, including seeking collaboration and partnering opportunities; • implement additional internal systems and infrastructure; and • maintain, defend and expand the scope of the Company’s intellectual property portfolio. The Company’s future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including but not limited to: • the terms and timing of any collaboration, licensing or other strategic arrangements into which the Company may enter; • the scope, cost, rate of progress, and results of the Company’s current and future clinical trials, preclinical studies and other discovery, research and development activities; • the costs associated with establishing manufacturing and commercialization capabilities; • the costs of acquiring or investing in product candidates and technologies; • the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights; • the costs and timing of seeking and obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals; • the potential need to hire additional management and research, development and clinical personnel; • the effect of competing technological and market developments; and • general and industry-specific economic conditions that may affect the Company’s research and development expenditures. Until the Company can establish profitable operations to finance its cash requirements, which the Company may never do, the Company plans to finance future cash needs primarily through public or private equity or debt financings, the establishment of credit or other funding facilities, or entering into collaborative or other strategic arrangements with corporate sources or other sources of financing. Global market and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile. Concern about the stability of the markets has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide credit to businesses and consumers. The Company does not know whether additional financing will be available in the near term when needed, particularly in light of the current economic environment and adverse conditions in the financial markets, or that, if available, financing will be obtained on terms favorable to the Company or its stockholders. Since August 2007, other than through bridge loans from its largest stockholder, the Company has been unsuccessful in securing additional financing and may not be able to do so in the near term when needed. The delisting of the Company’s common stock from the NASDAQ Capital Market may further adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the near term when needed. Having insufficient funds may require the Company to delay, scale back, or eliminate some or all of its research and development programs, including activities related to its clinical trials, or to relinquish greater or all rights to product candidates at an earlier stage of development or on less favorable terms than the Company would otherwise choose, or ultimately cease operations. 17 Table of Contents The Company expects to be in default under the March 2009 Loan, which default could lead to a foreclosure on the Company’s assets. All outstanding principal and accrued interest under the March 2009 Loan are due on April 1, 2010. The Company will not be able to repay the loan when it becomes due on April 1, 2010. When the Company does not repay the loan at maturity, it will be in default under the March 2009 loan agreement and the Lenders may terminate the March 2009 Loan, demand immediate payment of all amounts borrowed by the Company and take possession of all collateral securing the March 2009 Loan, which could cause the Company to cease operations. In addition, if the Company raises additional funds through collaborative or other strategic arrangements, it may be required to relinquish potentially valuable rights to its product candidates or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to the Company. The Company may not be able to satisfy certain covenant restrictions, which could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. As described under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 below and in Note 6 in the Notes to the Financial Statements, in March 2009, the Company entered into a loan with the Lenders whereby the Lenders agreed to lend to the Company in the aggregate up to $10.0 million, which loan is secured by all of the Company’s assets, including its intellectual property. As of September 11, 2009, the Company had drawn down the full amount from the debt facility. As described in “Other Information” in Part II, Item 9B and in Note 12 in the Notes to the Financial Statements, the Company entered into the March 2010 Loan with the Lenders whereby the Lenders agreed to lend to the Company in the aggregate up to $3.0 million, which loan is secured by all of the Company’s assets, including its intellectual property. On March 29, 2010, the Company borrowed an initial amount of $1,250,000. In connection with both loans, the Company must also satisfy certain conditions and comply with covenants, including covenants relating to the Company’s ability to incur additional indebtedness, make future acquisitions, consummate asset dispositions, grant liens and pledge assets, pay dividends or make other distributions, incur capital expenditures and make restricted payments. These restrictions may limit the Company’s ability to pursue its business strategies and obtain additional funds. The Company’s ability to meet these financial covenants may be adversely affected by a deterioration in business conditions or its results of operations, adverse regulatory developments, the economic environment and adverse conditions in the financial markets or other events beyond the Company’s control. Failure to comply with these restrictions may result in the occurrence of an event of default under the loan. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the Lenders may terminate the loan, demand immediate payment of all amounts borrowed by the Company and take possession of all collateral securing the loan, which could adversely affect the Company’s ability to repay its debt securities and cause the Company to cease operations. In addition, the loans provide that, subject to certain specified exemptions, the proceeds of any debt or equity offering or asset sale must be used to reduce outstanding indebtedness under the loan or other specified indebtedness. This restriction severely limits the Company’s ability to use the proceeds of any debt or equity offering or asset sale to operate or grow the Company’s business. All outstanding principal and accrued interest under the March 2009 Loan are due on April 1, 2010. The Company will not be able to repay the loan when it becomes due on April 1, 2010. Raising additional funds by issuing securities or through collaboration and other strategic arrangements will likely cause dilution to existing stockholders, restrict operations or require the Company to relinquish potentially valuable rights. The Company may raise additional capital through private or public equity or debt financings, the establishment of credit or other funding facilities, entering into collaborative or other strategic arrangements with corporate sources or other sources of financing, which may include partnerships for product development and commercialization, merger, sale of assets or other similar transactions. If the Company raises additional capital by issuing equity securities, its existing stockholders’ ownership will be diluted. Given the Company’s current market capitalization and financing needs, it is likely that any financing obtained will result in significant dilution to existing stockholders. Any additional debt financing that the Company enters into may involve covenants that restrict its operations. These restrictive covenants may include limitations on additional borrowing, specific restrictions on the use of its assets as well as prohibitions on its ability to create liens, pay dividends, redeem its stock or make investments. The Company may also be required to pledge all or substantially all of its assets, including intellectual property rights, as collateral to secure any debt obligations. The March 2009 Loan is secured by all of the Company’s assets, including its intellectual property. In connection with this loan, the Company granted the Lenders warrants to purchase an aggregate of 83,333,333 shares of common stock (“Warrant Shares”) at $0.12 per share. The Warrant Shares vest based on the amount of borrowings under the loan and the passage of time. For each $2.0 million borrowing, 8,333,333 Warrant Shares vest and are exercisable immediately on the date of grant, and 8,333,333 vest and are exercisable 45 days thereafter as the Company meets certain conditions provided for in the warrants, including that the Company did not complete a $20.0 million financing, as defined in the Loan Agreement, within 45 days of the borrowing. Based on the $10.0 million of borrowings, 83,333,333 Warrant Shares are vested and are exercisable. The Warrant Shares are exercisable at any time until 5:00 p.m. (Pacific Time) on March 12, 2014, upon the surrender to the Company of the properly endorsed Warrant Shares, as specified in the warrants. To the extent the Warrant Shares are exercised by the Lenders, existing stockholders’ ownership in the Company will be significantly diluted. 18 Table of Contents As described in “Other Information” in Part II, Item 9B and in Note 12 in the Notes to the Financial Statements, the March 2010 Loan is secured by all of the Company’s assets, including its intellectual property. In connection with this loan, the Company granted the Lenders warrants to purchase an aggregate of 17,647,059 shares of common stock (“2010 Warrant Shares”) at $0.17 per share. The 2010 Warrant Shares vest based on the amount of borrowings under the loan. Based on the $1,250,000 of borrowings, 7,352,941 of the 2010 Warrant Shares are vested and are exercisable as of March 29, 2010. The 2010 Warrant Shares are exercisable at any time until 5:00 p.m. (Pacific Time) on March 26, 2015, upon the surrender to the Company of the properly endorsed 2010 Warrant Shares, as specified in the warrants. To the extent the Warrant Shares are exercised by the Lenders, existing stockholders’ ownership in the Company will be further diluted. In addition, upon default of the March 2009 Loan the Lenders will have the right to declare the March 2010 Loan due and payable upon sixty days notice. Risks Related to the Company’s Business The Company is at an early stage of development. The Company has never generated and may never generate revenues from commercial sales of its products and the Company may not have products to market for several years, if ever. Since its inception, the Company has dedicated substantially all its resources to the support and conduct of research and development of compounds for clinical trials, and specifically, toward the development of VIA-2291. Because none of the Company’s current or potential products have been finally approved by any regulatory authority, the Company currently has no products for commercial sale and has not generated any revenues to date. The Company is considering its partnering opportunities with large biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies in connection with its current and future clinical trials and development activities. The Company does not expect to generate any revenues until it successfully partners its current or future programs or until it receives final regulatory approval and launches one of its products for sale. The Company has conducted three Phase 2 clinical trials for VIA-2291: the CEA study, the ACS study, and the FDG-PET study. Based on the data reported, and to be reported, from these three studies, and subject to the receipt of substantial additional financing, the Company anticipates initiating future clinical development activities with respect to VIA-2291 and is currently evaluating various development alternatives, particularly strategic partnering opportunities. Such clinical development activities may include one or more additional clinical trials designed to further demonstrate that the drug can be safely administered following an acute coronary syndrome event and link the mechanism of action of VIA-2291 to improved cardiac outcomes. The Company is presently evaluating the design and strategy of additional clinical trials, which may take the form of a Phase 2b trial, a Phase 3 registration trial or some combination thereof. Any future trials will require regulatory approval and the failure to obtain such approval would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. Substantial additional investment in future clinical trials will be required and will require significant time. In December 2008, the Company entered into two license agreements with Roche to develop and commercialize two sets of compounds (the “Metabolic Compounds”). The first license is for Roche’s THR beta agonist, a clinically ready candidate for the control of cholesterol, triglyceride levels and potential in insulin sensitization/diabetes. The second license is for multiple compounds from Roche’s preclinical DGAT1 metabolic disorders program. If necessary financing is obtained either through additional investment in the Company or through another vehicle, the Company intends to enter into strategic arrangements to pursue preclinical and clinical development of the Metabolic Compounds. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain such financing. The Company’s ability to generate product revenue will depend heavily on the successful development and regulatory approval of VIA-2291, the Metabolic Compounds or any other product candidates. The Company cannot guarantee that it will be successful in completing the remaining Phase 2 trial or any subsequent clinical trials initiated for VIA-2291, or that it will be able to obtain the necessary financing to initiate and/or complete clinical trials for VIA-2291, the Metabolic Compounds or any other product candidates. The Company also cannot assure you that it will be able to successfully negotiate a strategic collaboration with a large biotechnology or pharmaceutical company with respect to VIA-2291 or otherwise finance the development of VIA-2291, the Metabolic Compounds or any other product candidates. The Company’s revenues, if any, will be derived from products that the Company does not expect to be commercially available for several years, if ever. The development of VIA-2291, the Metabolic Compounds or any other product candidates may be discontinued at any stage of the clinical trial programs and the Company may never generate revenue from any of its product candidates. Accordingly, there is no assurance that the Company will ever generate revenues. 19 Table of Contents Clinical trials are expensive, difficult to design and implement, time-consuming and subject to delay, particularly in the cardiovascular area due to the large number of patients who must be enrolled and treated in clinical trials. As a result, there is a high risk that the Company’s drug development activities will not result in regulatory approval, or that such approval will be delayed, thereby reducing the likelihood of successful commercialization of products. Clinical trials are very expensive and difficult to design and implement. Conducting clinical trials is a complex and uncertain process and involves screening, assessing, testing, treating and monitoring patients at multiple sites, and coordinating with patients and clinical institutions. This is especially true for trials related to the cardiovascular indications that the Company is pursuing, in part because they require a large number of patients and because of the complexities involved in using histology, measurement of biomarkers and medical imaging. The clinical trial process is also time-consuming. For example, based on the clinical data reported from the CEA and ACS Phase 2 clinical trials, as described under “Business — VIA-2291 Clinical Trial Results” in Part I, Item 1 above, and subject to the receipt of additional financing, the Company intends to pursue strategic partnering opportunities with respect to future clinical development of VIA-2291. Such clinical development activities may include one or more additional clinical trials designed to further demonstrate that the drug can be safely administered following an acute coronary syndrome event and link the mechanism of action of VIA-2291 to improved cardiac outcomes. The Company is presently evaluating the design and strategy of additional clinical trials, which may take the form of a Phase 2b trial, a Phase 3 registration trial or some combination thereof. The Company currently expects that any additional trial would require the recruitment of a significant number of patients, would require significant investment, and could require more than two years to complete. The Company is unable to currently estimate the costs of additional trials, but industry estimates for trials of cardiovascular drugs often exceed $200 million, and require in excess of two years to complete. If the results of the additional clinical trials do not demonstrate a statistically significant reduction of MACE, the Company would likely be required to conduct additional clinical trials or narrow the labeling of its product based on results achieved, thereby delaying or preventing the commercial launch of VIA-2291. In addition, subject to the receipt of additional financing, the Company intends to pursue clinical development of the THR beta agonist compound and preclinical development of the DGAT1 compounds licensed from Roche, each of which will require significant spending and may require separate sources of funding. Until the Company can generate a sufficient amount of revenue to finance its cash requirements, which the Company may never do, it expects to finance future cash needs primarily through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or strategic collaborations. Global market and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile. Concern about the stability of the markets has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide credit to businesses and consumers. To date the Company has been unsuccessful in securing additional financing and may not be able to do so in the near term when needed, particularly in light of the current economic environment, adverse conditions in the financial markets, and the Company’s inability to secure financing over the past two years other than through bridge financing from its largest stockholder. Further, additional financing, if available, may not be obtained on terms favorable to the Company or its stockholders. The Company’s DSMB reviewed safety data numerous times in connection with the CEA, ACS and FDG-PET clinical trials and has recommended that studies continue as planned. Additional DSMB reviews may be performed in connection with potential future clinical trials, and if the results of the DSMB review are unfavorable, the Company may be required to modify or discontinue its clinical trials of VIA-2291, thereby delaying or preventing completion of subsequent clinical trials, and the commercial launch of VIA-2291. The conduct of the Company’s clinical trial activities, including analysis of the FDG-PET trial, as well as the commencement and completion of any future clinical trial activities, could be delayed, prevented or otherwise negatively impacted by several factors, including: • lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical development of VIA-2291 or to commence the preclinical and clinical development of the Metabolic Compounds, including the incurrence of unforeseen costs due to enrollment delays, requirements to conduct additional trials and studies and increased expenses associated with the services of the Company’s clinical research organizations (“CROs”) and other third parties; • failure to enter into strategic partnering transactions or other strategic arrangements for the continued research and development of compounds for clinical trials; • delays in obtaining regulatory approvals to commence a clinical trial; 20 Table of Contents • delays in identifying and reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective CROs and clinical trial sites; • delays in obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; • slower than expected rates of patient recruitment and enrollment for a variety of reasons, including competition from other clinical trial programs for the treatment of similar indications, the nature of the protocol, and the eligibility criteria for the trial; • enrolled patients may not remain in or complete clinical trials at the rates we expect; • failure to obtain sufficient data from enrolled patients that can be used to evaluate VIA-2291, thereby impairing the validity or statistical significance of our clinical trials; • lack of effectiveness during clinical trials; • failure to achieve clinical trial endpoints; • unforeseen safety issues; • uncertain dosing issues; • changes in regulatory requirements causing the Company to amend clinical trial protocols or add new clinical trials to comply with these changes; • unforeseen difficulties developing the advanced manufacturing techniques, including adequate process controls, quality controls, and quality assurance testing, required to scale up production of the Company’s product candidates to commercial levels; • inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment; • conflicting or negating results, upon further analysis of the data from the clinical trials; • retaining participants who have enrolled in a clinical trial but may be prone to withdraw due to the design of the trial, lack of efficacy or personal issues or who fail to return for follow-up visits for a variety of reasons; and • inability or unwillingness of medical investigators to follow the Company’s clinical trial protocols and follow good clinical practices. The Company will not know whether the analysis of the FDG-PET clinical trial will end on time and whether any future clinical trials, if any, will begin on time, need to be restructured or be completed on schedule, if at all. Significant delays in clinical trials will impede the Company’s ability to commercialize its product candidates and generate revenue, and could significantly increase its development costs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. Failure to timely recruit and enroll patients for any future clinical trials may cause the development of the Company’s product candidates to be delayed. The Company may encounter delays if it is unable to timely recruit and enroll enough patients to complete any future clinical trials. Clinical trial patient levels depend on many factors, including the eligibility criteria for the trial, assumptions regarding the baseline disease state and the impact of standard medical care, the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, and competition from other clinical trial programs for the treatment of similar indications. For example, although patient enrollment was completed, the Company experienced slower than expected patient enrollment in its completed CEA clinical trial. Any delays in planned patient enrollment in the future may result in increased costs, delay or prevent regulatory approval or harm the Company’s ability to develop and commercialize current or future product candidates, including in collaboration with biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies. 21 Table of Contents The Company’s Phase 2 clinical trials of VIA-2291 primarily target biomarkers, histology and medical imaging as endpoints, and the results of any Phase 2 clinical trials may not be indicative of success in future clinical trials that will target outcomes such as heart attack and stroke. The results of previous clinical trials may not be predictive of future results, and the Company’s current and future clinical trials may not satisfy the requirements of the FDA or other non-U.S. regulatory authorities. The clinical data collected during the (i) prior clinical trials involving VIA-2291 (formerly known as ABT-761) conducted by Abbott prior to the licensing of VIA-2291 from Abbott in August 2005, and (ii) the CEA, ACS, ACS MDCT sub-study and FDG-PET clinical trials for VIA-2291, do not provide evidence of whether VIA-2291 will prove to be an effective treatment to reduce the rate of MACE in the prospective treatment population. In order to prove or disprove the validity of the Company’s assumption about the efficacy of VIA-2291, at least one additional clinical trial will need to be conducted which may include a Phase 2b or Phase 3 clinical trial and which may be 12 to 36 months in duration from the recruitment of the first patient, although this time may increase due to unforeseen circumstances. Such additional clinical trials must ultimately demonstrate that there is a statistically significant reduction in the number of MACE in patients treated with VIA-2291 compared to patients taking a placebo. Until data from one or more of these outcome clinical trials can be collected and analyzed, the Company will not know whether VIA-2291 shows clinically significant benefits. Results of the CEA and ACS clinical trials as described under “Business — VIA-2291 Clinical Trial Results” in Part I, Item 1 above are based on a very limited number of patients and may, upon review and further analysis, be revised, interpreted differently by regulatory authorities or negated by later stage clinical results. For instance, we believe the results of the CEA and ACS clinical trials support further clinical development of VIA-2291 in larger outcome trials based on the fact both trials achieved nearly every key endpoint, although the CEA trial missed its primary endpoint. The results from preclinical testing and Phase 2 clinical trials often have not been predictive of results obtained in later trials. A number of new drugs and therapeutics have shown promising results in initial clinical trials, but later-stage trials may fail to establish sufficient safety and efficacy data to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. Negative or inconclusive results, or adverse medical events during a clinical trial, could cause the termination of a clinical trial or require it to be repeated or a whole new clinical trial conducted. Data obtained from preclinical and clinical studies are subject to varying interpretations, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. The Company’s Phase 2 FDG-PET clinical trial utilizes new, innovative imaging technology that does not represent a widely accepted and validated clinical trial methodology for measuring inflammation in atherosclerosis. The results of this clinical trial may not be predictive of future results and may not be consistent with the results of the CEA and ACS clinical trials, the ACS MDCT sub-study or future clinical trials. FDG-PET is a new, innovative imaging technology that does not represent a widely accepted and validated clinical trial methodology for measuring atherosclerotic plaque inflammation. The last patient in the FDG-PET Phase 2 clinical trial was reported in December 2009 and completion of data analysis and reporting of clinical trial results are anticipated in the first half of 2010. If the results from this clinical trial are unfavorable, the Company may be delayed or prevented from completing subsequent clinical trials related to VIA-2291 or from commercially launching VIA-2291. In addition, the results of this clinical trial may not be predictive of future results and may not be consistent with results from the CEA or ACS clinical trials or the ACS MDCT sub-study, which may delay or prevent regulatory approval of VIA-2291, may harm the Company’s ability to develop and commercialize VIA-2291, and may negatively impact the Company’s ability to raise additional capital in the future. The Company’s clinical trials could be delayed, suspended or stopped. The Company will not know whether future clinical trials, if any, will begin on time or whether it will complete any of its ongoing clinical trials on schedule or at all. Product development costs to the Company and potential future collaborators or strategic partners will increase if the Company has delays in testing or approvals, or if the Company needs to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned. Significant delays, suspension or termination of clinical trials would adversely affect the Company’s financial results and the commercial prospects for the Company’s products, and would delay or prevent the Company from achieving profitable operations. The Company relies on third parties to conduct its clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, the Company may be unable to obtain, or may experience delays in obtaining, regulatory approval, or may not be successful in commercializing the Company’s planned and future products. The Company enters into master service agreements with third-party CROs and relied primarily on CROs to oversee its Phase 2 clinical trials for VIA-2291, and depends on independent clinical investigators, medical institutions and contract laboratories to conduct its clinical trials. Similarly, the Company intends to rely on CROs to oversee any additional clinical trials for VIA-2291 and will depend on independent clinical investigators, medical institutions and contract laboratories to conduct these clinical trials, whether in the form of a Phase 2b trial, a Phase 3 registration trial or some combination thereof. The 22 Table of Contents Company remains responsible, however, for ensuring that each of its clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the trial. Moreover, the FDA requires the Company to comply with standards, commonly referred to as Good Clinical Practices, for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the rights, integrity and confidentiality of trial participants are protected. The Company’s reliance on third parties that it does not control does not relieve it of these responsibilities and requirements. If the Company’s CROs or independent investigators fail to devote sufficient time and resources to the Company’s drug development programs, if they are unable or unwilling to follow the Company’s clinical protocols, or if their performance is substandard, our clinical trials may not meet regulatory requirements. If our clinical trials do not meet regulatory requirements or if these third parties need to be replaced, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated. If any of these events occurs, the clinical development costs for the Company’s product candidates would be expected to rise and the Company may not be able to obtain regulatory approval or commercialize its product candidates. The Company will need to provide additional information to the FDA regarding preclinical and clinical safety issues raised during prior trials of VIA-2291 that could result in delays in future FDA approvals. During preclinical animal testing and clinical trials of ABT-761 (now VIA-2291) conducted by Abbott, safety issues with regards to tumors in animals and higher incidence of liver function abnormality in clinical trials in humans were identified. The liver function abnormalities were demonstrated to be reversible with discontinuance of the drug in Abbott’s trials. The FDA requested that the Company provide additional materials and information regarding the incidence of tumors in animals. As described under “Business — VIA-2291” in Part I, Item 1 above, lower doses of the drug may reduce these safety concerns. In the ACS clinical trial, the Company did see generally mild, reversible elevations of normal liver enzymes in the low dose VIA-2291 treated group, but no elevations in the higher dose drug-treated groups. Safety issues could delay the FDA’s approval of any Phase 2b and/or Phase 3 clinical trial, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. VIA-2291 is the Company’s only product candidate currently in clinical trials. The Company’s efforts to identify, develop and commercialize new product candidates beyond VIA-2291 will be at an early stage and will be subject to a high risk of failure. The Company’s product candidates are in various stages of development and are prone to the risks of failure inherent in drug development. The Company will need to complete significant additional clinical trials before it can demonstrate that its product candidates are safe and effective to the satisfaction of the FDA and other non-U.S. regulatory authorities. Clinical trials are expensive and uncertain processes that take years to complete. Failure can occur at any stage of the process, and successful early clinical trials do not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful. Current and future preclinical products have increased risk as there is no assurance that products will be identified that will qualify for, and be successful in, clinical trials. Furthermore, the Company may expend significant resources on research or target compounds that ultimately do not qualify for, or are not successful in, clinical trials. For example, in December 2008 the Company entered into two license agreements with Roche to develop and commercialize the Metabolic Compounds for up to $22.8 million in upfront and milestone payments with potential royalty payments in the future. If necessary financing is obtained, the Company intends to pursue preclinical and clinical development of these compounds. There can be no assurance that the Company will successfully develop and commercialize products containing these compounds. Product candidates may fail to show desired efficacy and safety traits despite having progressed through initial clinical trials. A number of companies in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials where costs of clinical trials are significant, even after obtaining promising results in earlier trials. In addition, a clinical trial may prove successful with respect to a secondary endpoint, but fail to demonstrate clinically significant benefits with respect to a primary endpoint. Failure to satisfy a primary endpoint in a Phase 2b and/or Phase 3 clinical trial would generally mean that a product candidate would not receive regulatory approval without a subsequent successful Phase 2b and/or Phase 3 clinical trial which the Company may not be able to fund, and may be unable to complete. If the Company is unable to form and maintain the collaborative relationships that its business strategy requires, its product development programs will suffer, and the Company may not be able to develop or commercialize its product candidates and may ultimately have to cease operations. A key element of the Company’s business strategy with regard to the development and commercialization of VIA-2291 includes collaboration with third parties, particularly leading biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. If necessary financing is obtained, the Company plans to pursue partnering opportunities with biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies to conduct additional clinical trials required for regulatory approval of VIA-2291. Subject to the receipt of additional financing, the Company expects to consider further collaborations for the development and commercialization of its product candidates in the future. The timing and terms of any collaboration will depend on the evaluation by prospective collaborators of the Company’s clinical trial results and other aspects of the safety and efficacy profiles of its product candidates. If the Company is 23 Table of Contents unable to reach agreements with suitable collaborators for any product candidate, it would be forced to fund the entire development and commercialization of such product candidate, and the Company currently does not have the resources to do so. Even if the Company is able to reach an agreement with a suitable collaborator, the Company may be forced to fund a significant portion of the development and commercialization expenses, and the Company currently does not have the resources to do so. Additionally, if resource constraints require the Company to enter into a collaboration early in the development of a product candidate, the Company may be forced to accept a more limited share of any revenues such product may eventually generate. The Company faces significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators. Moreover, these collaboration arrangements are complex and time-consuming to negotiate and document. The Company may not be successful in its efforts to establish collaborations or other alternative arrangements for any product candidate, may be unable to raise required capital to fund clinical trials, and therefore, may be unable to continue operations. Even if the Company receives regulatory approval to market VIA-2291 and its other product candidates, such products may not gain the market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and the medical community. Any products, including VIA-2291, that the Company may develop may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and the medical community even if they ultimately receive regulatory approval. If these products do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance, the Company, or future collaborators, may not be able to generate material product revenues and the Company may not become profitable. The degree of market acceptance of any of the Company’s product candidates, if approved for commercial sale, will depend on a number of factors, including: • demonstration of efficacy and safety in clinical trials; • the prevalence and severity of any side effects; • the introduction and availability of generic substitutes for any of the Company’s products, potentially at lower prices (which, in turn, will depend on the strength of the Company’s intellectual property protection for such products); • potential or perceived advantages over alternative treatments; • the timing of market entry relative to competitive treatments; • the ability to offer the Company’s product candidates for sale at competitive prices; • relative convenience and ease of administration; • the strength of marketing and distribution support; • sufficient third party coverage or reimbursement; and • the product labeling or product insert (including any warnings) required by the FDA or regulatory authorities in other countries. The Company will rely on third parties to manufacture and supply its product candidates. The Company does not own or operate manufacturing facilities for clinical or commercial production of product candidates. The Company will not have any experience in drug formulation or manufacturing, and it will lack the resources and the capability to manufacture any of the Company’s product candidates on a clinical or commercial scale. The Company expects to depend on third-party contract manufacturers for the foreseeable future. Any performance failure on the part of the Company’s contract manufacturers could delay clinical development, regulatory approval or commercialization of the Company’s current or future product candidates, depriving the Company of potential product revenue and resulting in additional losses. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, particularly in scaling up initial production. These problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control (including stability of the product candidate and quality assurance testing), shortages of qualified personnel, as well as compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations. If the Company’s third-party contract manufacturers were to encounter any of these difficulties or otherwise fail to comply with their obligations to the Company or under applicable regulations, the Company’s ability to provide product candidates to patients in its clinical trials would be jeopardized. Any delay or interruption in the supply of clinical trial supplies could delay the completion of the Company’s clinical trials, increase the costs associated with maintaining its clinical trial program and, depending upon the period of delay, require the Company to commence new trials at significant additional expense or terminate the trials completely. 24 Table of Contents The Company may be subject to costly claims related to its clinical trials and may not be able to obtain adequate insurance. Because the Company currently conducts clinical trials in humans, it faces the risk that the use of its current or future product candidates will result in adverse side effects. During preclinical animal testing and clinical trials of ABT-761 (now VIA-2291) conducted by Abbott, safety issues with regard to tumors in animals and higher incidence of liver function abnormality in clinical trials in humans were identified. The liver function abnormalities were demonstrated to be reversible with discontinuance of the drug in Abbott’s trials. As described under “Business — VIA-2291” in Part I, Item 1 above, lower doses of the drug may reduce these safety concerns. Although the Company currently has, and intends to maintain, clinical trial liability insurance for up to $10.0 million, such insurance may be insufficient to cover any such adverse events. The Company does not know whether it will be able to continue to obtain clinical trial coverage on acceptable terms, or at all. The Company may not have sufficient resources to pay for any liabilities resulting from a claim excluded from, or beyond the limit of, its insurance coverage. There is also a risk that third parties, which the Company has agreed to indemnify, could incur liability. Any litigation arising from the Company’s clinical trials, even if the Company is ultimately successful in its defense, would consume substantial amounts of its financial and managerial resources and may create adverse publicity, which may result in significant damages and may adversely impact the Company’s ability to raise required capital or continue operations. The Company may be subject to costly claims related to Corautus’ former clinical trials of Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor 2. Prior to November 1, 2006, Corautus was the sponsor of a Phase 2b clinical trial to study the efficacy of VEGF-2 for the treatment of severe cardiovascular disease, known as the GENASIS trial. In addition, Corautus supported initial clinical trials studying the efficacy of VEGF-2 for the treatment of peripheral artery disease and diabetic neuropathy. On April 10, 2006, Corautus announced the termination of enrollment in the GENASIS trial. The Company has and intends to maintain, clinical trial liability insurance for up to $10.0 million. Insurance may not adequately cover any such claims and if not, such claims may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Such insurance may be insufficient to cover any claims unrelated to the GENASIS trial. The Company does not know whether it will be able to continue to obtain clinical trial coverage on acceptable terms, or at all. The Company may not have sufficient resources to pay for any liabilities resulting from a claim excluded from, or beyond the limit of, its insurance coverage. There is also a risk that third parties, which the Company has agreed to indemnify, could incur liability, and the Company may be required to reimburse such third parties for such liability if required pursuant to these indemnification arrangements. For example, on July 17, 2007, the Company received a letter requesting indemnification from the Company of approximately $1.3 million of legal costs incurred by Tailored Risk Assurance Company, Ltd. in defending Caritas St. Elizabeth’s Medical Center of Boston, Inc. (“CSEMC”) and several physician co-defendants in the matter of Susan Darke, Individually, and as Executrix of the Estate of Roger J. Darke v. Caritas St. Elizabeth’s Medical Center of Boston, Inc., et al. (Suffolk Superior Court, Boston, Massachusetts). Vascular Genetics Inc. (“VGI”), the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary, was also a defendant in the litigation, but was dismissed from the litigation in March 2007 after entering into a settlement agreement with the plaintiffs. The letter alleged that the Company, as a successor to Corautus Genetics Inc., was required to indemnify CSEMC pursuant to a License Agreement, dated October 31, 1997, between CSEMC and VGI. In August 2008, the parties reached a settlement. The Company’s insurance carrier covered the entire settlement payment. The Company, VGI and the insurance carrier obtained a release of liabilities in connection with the settlement. Any cost required to be paid out by the Company or any litigation arising from these terminated clinical trials, even if the Company is ultimately successful in its defense, would consume substantial amounts of its financial and managerial resources and may create adverse publicity, which may result in significant damages and may adversely impact the Company’s ability to raise required capital or adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. 25 Table of Contents If the Company is unable to retain its management, research, development, clinical teams and scientific advisors or to attract additional qualified personnel, the Company’s product operations and development efforts may be seriously jeopardized. As described in “Other Information” in Part II, Item 9B and in Note 12 in the Notes to the Financial Statements, the Company’s current financial constraints has caused and may further cause the loss of the services of principal members of our management and research, development and clinical teams which could negatively impact our ability to operate, obtain necessary financing, or pursue strategic partnering opportunities. The employment agreement for Dr. Lawrence K. Cohen, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, provides that his employment is terminable at will at any time with or without cause or notice by either the Company or Dr. Cohen. The employment agreement for Dr. Rebecca Taub, the Company’s Sr. Vice President, Research & Development, is terminable at will at any time with or without cause or notice by either the Company or Dr. Taub. Competition among biotechnology companies for qualified employees is intense, and the ability to retain and attract qualified individuals is critical to the Company’s success. The Company may be unable to attract and retain key personnel on acceptable terms, if at all. The Company does not maintain “key person” life insurance on any of its officers, employees or consultants. The Company has relationships with consultants and scientific advisors who will continue to assist the Company in formulating and executing its research, development, regulatory and clinical strategies. The Company’s consulting agreements typically have provisions for hourly billing, non-disclosure of confidential information, and the assignment to the Company of any inventions developed within the scope of services to the Company. The consulting and scientific advisory agreements are typically terminable by either party on 30 days or shorter notice. These consultants and scientific advisors are not the Company’s employees and may have commitments to, or consulting or advisory contracts with, other entities that may limit their availability to the Company. The Company will have only limited control over the activities of these consultants and scientific advisors and can generally expect these individuals to devote only limited time to the Company’s activities. The Company relies heavily on these consultants to perform critical functions in key areas of its operations. The Company also relies on these consultants to evaluate potential compounds and products, which may be important in developing a long-term product pipeline for the Company. Consultants also assist the Company in preparing and submitting regulatory filings. The Company’s scientific advisors provide scientific and technical guidance on cardiovascular drug discovery and development. The loss of service of any or all of these consultants may further impact our ability to operate or obtain additional financing needed in the near term. Failure of any of these persons to devote sufficient time and resources to the Company’s programs could harm its business. In addition, these advisors may have arrangements with other companies to assist those companies in developing technologies that may compete with the Company’s products. If the Company’s competitors develop and market products that are more effective than the Company’s product candidates or others it may develop, or obtain regulatory and marketing approval for similar products before the Company does, the Company’s commercial opportunity may be reduced or eliminated. The development and commercialization of new pharmaceutical products that target cardiovascular and metabolic disease is competitive, and the Company will face competition from numerous sources, including major biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies worldwide. Many of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater financial and technical resources, and development, production and marketing capabilities than the Company does. In addition, many of these companies have more experience than the Company in preclinical testing, clinical trials and manufacturing of compounds, as well as in obtaining FDA and foreign regulatory approvals. The Company will also compete with academic institutions, governmental agencies and private organizations that are conducting research in the same fields. Competition among these entities to recruit and retain highly qualified scientific, technical and professional personnel and consultants is also intense. As a result, there is a risk that one of the competitors of the Company will develop a more effective product for the same indication for which the Company is developing a product or, alternatively, bring a similar product to market before the Company can do so. Failure of the Company to successfully compete will adversely impact the ability to raise additional capital and continue operations. The Company may be subject to damages resulting from claims that the Company or its employees, have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of its employees’ former employers. Many of the Company’s employees were previously employed at biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including the Company’s competitors or potential competitors. Although the Company has not received any claim to date, it may be subject to claims that these employees or the Company have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of such employees’ former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If the Company fails in defending such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, the Company may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel or may be unsuccessful in identifying, developing or commercializing current or future products. 26 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Company’s Intellectual Property The Company’s failure to protect adequately or to enforce its intellectual property rights or secure rights to third party patents could materially harm its proprietary position in the marketplace or prevent the commercialization of its products. The Company’s success will depend in large part on its ability to obtain and maintain protection in the United States and other countries for the intellectual property covering or incorporated into its technologies and products. The patents and patent applications in the Company’s existing patent portfolio are either owned by the Company or licensed to the Company. The Company’s ability to protect its product candidates from unauthorized use or infringement by third parties depends substantially on its ability to obtain and maintain valid and enforceable patents. Due to evolving legal standards relating to the patentability, validity and enforceability of patents covering pharmaceutical inventions and the scope of claims made under these patents, the Company’s ability to obtain and enforce patents is uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles are unresolved. The Company may not be able to obtain patent rights on products, treatment methods or manufacturing processes that it may develop or to which the Company may obtain license or other rights. Even if the Company does obtain patents, rights under any issued patents may not provide it with sufficient protection for the Company’s product candidates or provide sufficient protection to afford the Company a commercial advantage against its competitors or their competitive products or processes. It is possible that no patents will be issued from any pending or future patent applications owned by the Company or licensed to the Company. Others may challenge, seek to invalidate, infringe or circumvent any patents the Company owns or licenses. Alternatively, the Company may in the future be required to initiate litigation against third parties to enforce its intellectual property rights. The cost of this litigation could be substantial and the Company’s efforts could be unsuccessful. Changes in patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of the Company’s intellectual property or narrow the scope of the Company’s patent protection. The Company’s patents also may not afford protection against competitors with similar technology. The Company may not have identified all patents, published applications or published literature that affect its business either by blocking the Company’s ability to commercialize its product candidates, by preventing the patentability of its products or by covering the same or similar technologies that may affect the Company’s ability to market or license its product candidates. For example, patent applications filed with the United States Patent and Trademark Office (“USPTO”) are maintained in confidence for up to 18 months after their filing. In some cases, however, patent applications filed with the USPTO remain confidential for the entire time prior to issuance as a U.S. patent. Patent applications filed in countries outside the United States are not typically published until at least 18 months from their first filing date. Similarly, publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries. Therefore, the Company or its licensors might not have been the first to invent, or the first to file, patent applications on the Company’s product candidates or for their use. The laws of some foreign jurisdictions do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as in the United States and many companies have encountered significant difficulties in protecting and defending these rights in foreign jurisdictions. If the Company encounters such difficulties in protecting or is otherwise precluded from effectively protecting its intellectual property rights in either the United States or foreign jurisdictions, the Company’s business prospects could be substantially harmed. Because VIA-2291 is exclusively licensed from Abbott and the Metabolic Compounds are exclusively licensed from Roche, any dispute with Abbott or Roche, respectively, may materially harm the Company’s ability to develop and commercialize VIA-2291 or the Metabolic Compounds, as applicable. In August 2005, the Company licensed exclusive worldwide rights to its product candidate, VIA-2291, from Abbott (the “Abbott License”) and in 2008, Company entered into two license agreements (the “Roche Licenses”) with Roche to develop and commercialize the Metabolic Compounds. The Company does not have, nor has the Company ever had, any material disputes with Abbott or Roche regarding the Abbott License or the Roche Licenses. However, if there is any future dispute between the Company and Abbott regarding the parties’ rights under the Abbott License agreement, the Company’s ability to develop and commercialize VIA-2291 may be materially harmed. Any uncured, material breach under the Abbott License could result in the Company’s loss of exclusive rights to VIA-2291 and may lead to a complete termination of the Abbott License and force the Company to cease product development efforts for VIA-2291. Similarly, if there is any future dispute between the Company and Roche regarding the parties’ rights under the Roche License agreements, the Company’s ability to develop and commercialize the Metabolic Compounds may be materially harmed. Any uncured, material breach under the Roche License agreements could result in the Company’s loss of exclusive rights to Metabolic Compounds and may lead to a complete termination of the Roche License agreements and force the Company to cease product development efforts for the Metabolic Compounds. 27 Table of Contents If Abbott or Roche elect to maintain or enforce proprietary rights under the Abbott License or the Roche Licenses, respectively, the Company will depend on Abbott or Roche, as applicable, for the maintenance and enforcement of certain intellectual property rights and will have limited control, if any, over the amount or timing of resources that Abbott or Roche devote on the Company’s behalf. The Company depends on Abbott to protect certain proprietary rights covering VIA-2291 and Roche to protect certain proprietary rights covering THR beta agonist (the “VIA Rights”) pursuant to the terms of the Abbott License and the Roche Licenses, respectively. Abbott and Roche are responsible for maintaining certain issued patents and prosecuting certain patent applications. Abbott and Roche are also responsible for seeking to obtain all available extensions or restorations of the VIA Rights. Although the Company has limited, if any, control over the amount or timing of resources that Abbott or Roche devote or the priority they place on maintaining these certain patent rights to the Company’s advantage, the Company expects Abbott and Roche to comply with its respective obligations pursuant to the Abbott License and the Roche Licenses and devote resources accordingly. However, if Abbott or Roche decide to no longer maintain any of the patents licensed under the Abbott License or the Roche Licenses, they are required to afford the Company the opportunity to do so at the Company’s expense. If Abbott or Roche elect not to maintain any of these certain licensed patents and if the Company does not assume the maintenance of these certain licensed patents in sufficient time to make required payments or filings with the appropriate governmental agencies, the Company risks losing the benefit of all or some of the VIA Rights. While the Company currently intends to take actions reasonably necessary to enforce its patent rights, such enforcement depends, in part, on Abbott and Roche, respectively, to protect the VIA Rights. Abbott and Roche each have the first right to bring and pursue a third-party infringement action related to the VIA Rights. The Company has the right to cooperate with Abbott and Roche in third-party infringement suits involving the VIA Rights. If Abbott or Roche decline to prosecute a claim, the Company will have the right but not the obligation to bring suit and/or pursue any such infringement action as it determines, in its discretion, to be appropriate. Abbott, Roche, and the Company may also be notified of alleged infringement and be sued for infringement of third-party patents or other proprietary rights related to the VIA Rights. Abbott has the right but not the obligation to defend and control the defense of an alleged third-party patent infringement claim or suit asserting that VIA-2291 infringes third-party patent rights directed to the composition of matter or the use of VIA-2291 in the treatment and/or prevention of diseases in humans, if Abbott is made a party to such suit. If Abbott so elects, the Company may have limited, if any, control or involvement over the defense of these claims, and Abbott and the Company could be subject to injunctions and temporary or permanent exclusionary orders in the United States or other countries. The Company has the sole responsibility to defend and control the defense of all other claims of infringement by a third party. If Abbott elects not to defend a claim it has the first right to defend against, or if the claim is one that the Company has the responsibility to defend against, Abbott is required to reasonably assist the Company in its defense. Roche has the right but not the obligation to defend and control the defense of an alleged third-party patent infringement claim or suit against the Metabolic Compounds in which the Company has indemnification rights under the Roche Licenses. The Company has limited, if any, control over the amount or timing of resources, if any, that Abbott or Roche devote, or the priority Abbott or Roche place on the defense of such third-party claims of infringement. If the Company fails to comply with its obligations and meet certain milestones related to its intellectual property licenses with third parties, the Company could lose license rights that are important to its business. The Company’s commercial success depends on not infringing the patents and proprietary rights of other parties and not breaching any collaboration, license or other agreements that the Company has entered into with regard to its technologies and product candidates. For example, the Company entered into a license agreement with Abbott pursuant to which the Company is required to use commercially reasonable efforts, at its own expense, to (a) initiate and complete the clinical development of VIA-2291, (b) obtain all required regulatory approvals in major markets, and (c) obtain and carry out subsequent worldwide marketing, distribution and sale of VIA-2291 in such major markets. Prior to the first commercial sale of VIA-2291, the Company is required to furnish Abbott with an annual written report summarizing the progress of its efforts to implement the preclinical/clinical development plan. In December 2008, the Company entered into the Roche Licenses to develop and commercialize the Metabolic Compounds. The Company must use commercially reasonable efforts to conduct preclinical, clinical and commercial development programs for products containing the Metabolic Compounds. If the Company has not completed a Phase I clinical trial with respect to a lead product containing the THR beta agonist compound by January 5, 2012, the Company either must commit to developing another of Roche’s compounds or Roche may terminate the license for that compound. If the Company determines that it is not reasonable to continue clinical trials or other development of the compounds, it may elect to cease further development and Roche may terminate the licenses. If the Company determines not to pursue the development or commercialization of the compounds in the United States, Japan, the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Spain or Italy, Roche may terminate the licenses solely for such territories. 28 Table of Contents Third parties may own or control intellectual property that the Company may infringe. If a third party asserts that the Company infringes such third party’s patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or other proprietary rights, the Company could face a number of issues that could seriously harm the Company’s competitive position, including: • infringement and other intellectual property claims, which would be costly and time-consuming to litigate, whether or not the claims have merit, and which could delay the regulatory approval process and divert management’s attention from the Company’s business; • substantial damages for past infringement, which the Company may have to pay if a court determines that the Company has infringed a third party’s patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or other proprietary rights; • a court prohibiting the Company from selling or licensing its technologies or future products unless such third party licenses its patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or other proprietary rights to the Company, which it is not required to do; and • if a license is available from a third party, the requirement that the Company pay substantial royalties or grant cross licenses to its patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or other proprietary rights. The Company’s commercial success will depend in part on its ability to manufacture, use, sell and offer to sell its products without infringing patents or other proprietary rights of others. The Company may not be aware of all patents or patent applications that potentially impact its ability to manufacture (or have manufactured by a third party), use or sell any of its product candidates or proposed product candidates. For example, patent applications are filed with the USPTO but not published until 18 months after their effective filing date. Further, the Company may not be aware of published or granted conflicting patent rights. Any conflicts resulting from other patent applications and patents of third parties could significantly reduce the coverage of the Company’s patents and limit the Company’s ability to obtain meaningful patent protection. If others obtain patents with conflicting claims, the Company may be required to obtain licenses to these patents or to develop or obtain alternative technology. The Company may not be able to obtain any licenses or other rights to patents, technology or know-how necessary to conduct the Company’s business. Any failure to obtain such licenses or other rights could delay or prevent the Company from developing or commercializing its product candidates and proposed product candidates, which could materially affect the Company’s business. Additionally, litigation or patent interference proceedings may be necessary to enforce any of the Company’s patents or other proprietary rights, or to determine the scope and validity or enforceability of the proprietary rights of others. The defense and prosecution of patent and intellectual property claims are both costly and time consuming, even if the outcome is favorable to the Company. Any adverse outcome could subject the Company to significant liabilities, require the Company to license disputed rights from others, or require the Company to cease selling its future products. Risks Related to the Company’s Industry The Company’s product candidates are subject to extensive regulation, which can be costly and time-consuming, cause unanticipated delays or prevent the receipt of the required approvals to commercialize such product candidates. The Company is subject to extensive and rigorous government regulation in the United States and foreign countries. The research, testing, manufacturing, labeling, approval, sale, marketing and distribution of drug products are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory authorities in foreign jurisdictions, which regulations differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. The Company will not be permitted to market its product candidates in the United States until it receives approval of an NDA from the FDA, or in any foreign jurisdiction until the Company receives the requisite approval from the applicable regulatory authorities in such jurisdiction. The Company has not submitted an NDA or received marketing approval for VIA-2291 or any of its other product candidates in the United States or any foreign jurisdiction. Obtaining approval of an NDA is a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process. The FDA also has substantial discretion in the drug approval process, including the ability to delay, limit, condition or deny approval of a product candidate for many reasons. For example: • the FDA may not deem a product candidate safe and effective; • the FDA may not find the data from preclinical studies and clinical trials sufficient to support approval; 29 Table of Contents • the FDA may not approve of the Company’s third-party manufacturers’ processes and facilities; • the FDA may change its approval policies or adopt new regulations; or • the FDA may condition approval on additional clinical studies, including post-approval clinical studies. These requirements vary widely from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and make it difficult to estimate when the Company’s product candidates will be commercially available, if at all. If the Company is delayed or fails to obtain required approvals for its product candidates, the Company’s operations and financial condition would be damaged. The process of obtaining these approvals is expensive, often takes many years, and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the products involved. Approval policies or regulatory requirements may change in the future and may require the Company to resubmit its clinical trial protocols to institutional review boards for re-examination, which may impact the costs, timing or successful completion of a clinical trial. In addition, although members of the Company’s management have drug development and regulatory experience, as a company, it has not previously filed the applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals for any product. This lack of experience may impede the Company’s ability to obtain regulatory approval in a timely manner, if at all, for its product candidates for which development and commercialization is the Company’s responsibility. The Company will not be able to commercialize its product candidates in the United States until it obtains FDA approval and in other jurisdictions until it obtains approval by comparable governmental authorities. Any delay in obtaining, or inability to obtain, these approvals would prevent the Company from commercializing its product candidates and the Company’s ability to generate revenue will be delayed. Even if any of the Company’s product candidates receives regulatory approval, it may still face future development and regulatory difficulties. Even if U.S. regulatory approval is obtained, the FDA may still impose significant restrictions on a product’s indicated uses or marketing or impose ongoing requirements for potentially costly post-approval studies. The Company’s product candidates will also be subject to ongoing FDA requirements governing the labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, promotion, recordkeeping and submission of safety and other post-marketing information. In addition, manufacturers of drug products and their facilities are subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory authorities for compliance with current good manufacturing practices. If the Company or a regulatory agency discovers problems with a product, such as adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where the product is manufactured, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product, the manufacturer or the Company, including requiring withdrawal of the product from the market or suspension of manufacturing. If the Company or the manufacturing facilities for the Company’s product candidates fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may: • issue warning letters or untitled letters; • impose civil or criminal penalties; • suspend regulatory approval; • suspend any ongoing clinical trials; • refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by the Company or its collaborators; • impose restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; or • seize or detain products or require a product recall. The FDA and other regulatory agencies actively enforce regulations prohibiting the promotion of a drug for a use that has not been cleared or approved by the FDA. Use of a drug outside its cleared or approved indications is known as “off-label” use. Physicians may use the Company’s products for off-label uses, as the FDA does not restrict or regulate a physician’s choice of treatment within the practice of medicine. However, if the FDA or another regulatory agency determines that the Company’s promotional materials or training constitutes promotion of an off-label use; it could request that the Company modify its training or promotional materials or subject the Company to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. 30 Table of Contents In order to market any products outside of the United States, the Company and its collaborators must establish and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy. Approval procedures vary among jurisdictions and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other jurisdictions might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The regulatory approval process in other jurisdictions may include all of the risks detailed above regarding FDA approval in the United States. Regulatory approval in one jurisdiction does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one jurisdiction may negatively impact the regulatory process in others. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in other jurisdictions or any delay or setback in obtaining such approval could have the same adverse effects described above regarding FDA approval in the United States, including the risk that product candidates may not be approved for all indications requested, which could limit the uses of product candidates and adversely impact potential royalties and product sales, and that such approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or require costly, post-approval follow-up studies. If the Company or any of its manufacturers or other partners fails to comply with applicable foreign regulatory requirements, the Company and such other parties may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. Legislative or regulatory reform of the healthcare system may affect the Company’s ability to sell its products profitably. In both the United States and certain foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes to the healthcare system in ways that could impact upon the Company’s ability to sell its products profitably. In recent years, new legislation has been enacted in the United States at the federal and state levels that effects major changes in the healthcare system, either nationally or at the state level. These new laws include a prescription drug benefit for Medicare beneficiaries and certain changes in Medicare reimbursement. Given the recent enactment of these laws, it is still too early to determine their impact on the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries and the Company’s business. Further, federal and state proposals are likely. More recently, administrative proposals are pending and others have become effective that would change the method for calculating the reimbursement of certain drugs. The adoption of these proposals and pending proposals may affect the Company’s ability to raise capital, obtain additional collaborators or profitably market its products. Such proposals may reduce the Company’s revenues, increase its expenses or limit the markets for its products. In particular, the Company expects to experience pricing pressures in connection with the sale of its products due to the trend toward managed health care, the increasing influence of health maintenance organizations and additional legislative proposals. Risks Related to the Securities Market and Ownership of the Company’s Common Stock Our common stock has been delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market and is not listed on any other national securities exchange. It will likely be more difficult for stockholders and investors to sell our common stock or to obtain accurate quotations of the share price of our common stock. On December 29, 2009, the Company received written notice from the listing qualifications staff of the NASDAQ Stock Market informing the Company that trading of the Company’s common stock would be suspended from the NASDAQ Capital Market prior to the open of business on January 4, 2010 and that NASDAQ would initiate procedures to delist the Company’s common stock. The Company had notified NASDAQ on December 23, 2009 that the Company would be unable to comply with NASDAQ listing rule 5550(b), which requires a minimum stockholders’ equity requirement of $2.5 million, and NASDAQ listing rule 5605, which requires, among other things, that the Company’s board of directors be comprised of at least a majority of independent directors and that the Company’s audit committee be comprised of at least three independent directors. The Company’s common stock is currently traded on the Pink Sheets, a real-time inter-dealer electronic quotation and trading system in the over-the-counter securities market. The trading of our common stock on the Pink Sheets entails certain risks. Stocks trading on the over-the-counter market are typically less liquid than stocks that trade on a national securities exchange such as the NASDAQ Capital Market. Liquidity may be impaired not only in the number of shares that are bought and sold, but also through delays in the timing of transactions, and coverage by security analysts and the news media, if any, of the Company. Trading on the over-the-counter market may also negatively impact the market price of our common stock, the number of institutional and other investors that will consider investing in our common stock, the availability of information concerning the trading prices and volume of our common stock, and the number of broker-dealers willing to execute trades in shares of our common stock. In addition, the trading of our common stock on the Pink Sheets may materially and adversely affect our access to the capital markets, and the limited liquidity and reduced price of our common stock could materially and adversely affect our ability to raise capital through alternative financing sources on favorable terms or at all. Trading of securities on an over-the-counter securities market is often more sporadic than the trading of securities listed on a national exchange. The decreased liquidity of securities traded on the Pink Sheets may make it more difficult for holders of the Company’s common stock to sell their securities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to re-list our common stock on a national securities exchange in the future or that our common stock will continue to be traded on the Pink Sheets or any trading market. 31 Table of Contents The Company’s operating results and stock price may fluctuate significantly. The Company’s results of operations may be expected to be subject to quarterly fluctuations. The Company’s level of revenues, if any, and results of operations at any given time, will be based primarily on the following factors: • the Company’s ability to obtain additional financing and the terms of such financing; • the Company’s ability to operate its business following the restructuring, as described in “Other Information” in Part II, Item 9B and in Note 12 in the Notes to the Financial Statements; • the status of development of VIA-2291, the Metabolic Compounds, and any other product candidates; • whether or not the Company enters into development and license agreements with strategic partners that provide for payments to the Company, and the timing and accounting treatment of payments to the Company, if any, under those agreements; • whether or not the Company achieves specified development or commercialization milestones under any agreement that the Company enters into with collaborators and the timely payment by commercial collaborators of any amounts payable to the Company; • the addition or termination of research programs or funding support; • the timing of milestone and other payments that the Company may be required to make to others; and • variations in the level of expenses related to the Company’s product candidates or potential product candidates during any given period. These factors may cause the price of the Company’s stock to fluctuate substantially. Additionally, global market and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile. The Company believes that quarterly comparisons of its financial results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of the Company’s future performance. The Company’s stock price could decline significantly based on the results and timing of its clinical trials. The Company may not be successful in completing the analysis of the FDG-PET clinical trial or commencing or completing further clinical trials to demonstrate the efficacy of VIA-2291 on the currently projected timetable, if at all. The Company anticipates results from the FDG-PET Phase 2 clinical trial in the first half of 2010. Biotechnology and pharmaceutical company stock prices have declined significantly when clinical trial results were unfavorable or perceived negatively, or when clinical trials were delayed or otherwise did not meet expectations. Failure to initiate or delays in the Company’s clinical trials of any of its product candidates or unfavorable results or negative perceptions regarding the results of any such clinical trials, could cause the Company’s stock price to decline significantly. Bay City Capital, the Company’s principal stockholder, has significant influence over the Company, and the interests of the Company’s other stockholders may conflict with the interests of Bay City Capital. Bay City Capital, the Company’s principal stockholder, currently claims beneficial ownership of approximately 90% of the Company’s common stock and holds a security interest in all of the Company’s assets, including its intellectual property, as a Lender under the March 2009 Loan and March 2010 Loan. As a result, Bay City Capital, as a stockholder and a secured lender, is able to exert significant influence over the Company’s management and affairs, including any financing transactions, and matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of the Company’s assets, and any other significant corporate transaction. The interests of Bay City Capital, may not always coincide with the interests of the Company or its other stockholders. For example, Bay City Capital could delay or prevent a change of control of the Company even if such a change of control would benefit the Company’s other stockholders. The significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of the Company’s common stock due to investors’ perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. 32 Table of Contents A significant portion of the Company’s outstanding common stock may be sold into the market in the future. Substantial sales of the Company’s common stock, or the perception that such sales are likely to occur, could cause the price of the Company’s common stock to decline. In August 2007 and December 2007, the Company also filed Form S-8 registration statements covering the resale of the shares of common stock underlying options granted to the Company’s employees, directors and consultants pursuant to stock incentive plans and shares of common stock that it may issue in the future under these plans. In March 2008 and 2009, the Company filed Form S-8 registration statements covering the issuance of up to 500,000 additional shares of common stock, respectively, that the Company may issue in the future to employees, directors and consultants pursuant to the VIA Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 2007 Incentive Award Plan. In March 2009, the Company issued to the Lenders warrants to purchase an aggregate of 83,333,333 shares of common stock of the Company at $0.12 per share. In accordance with the terms of the warrant, the Company entered into a registration rights agreement with the Lenders and certain stockholders of the Company, pursuant to which the Company has granted certain demand, shelf and “piggyback” registration rights to register their shares (including shares underlying the warrants) with the SEC so that such shares become freely tradeable without restriction under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. As described in “Other Information” in Part II, Item 9B and in Note 12 in the Notes to the Financial Statements, in March 2010, the Company issued to the Lenders warrants to purchase an aggregate of 17,647,059 shares of common stock of the Company at $0.17 per share (of which 7,352,941 are vested as of March 29, 2010). In accordance with the terms of the warrant, the Company amended the registration rights agreement to include the shares underlying these warrants as well. Once registered, shares of the Company’s common stock generally can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance. Sales of a large number of these shares in the public market, or the perception that such sales are likely to occur, could cause the price of the Company’s common stock to decline and could make it more difficult for the Company to raise additional financing due to the additional overhang represented by these registered and to-be registered shares of common stock. Our change of control agreements with our named executive officers may require us to pay severance benefits to any of those persons who are terminated in connection with a change of control of the Company. All of our named executive officers are parties to change of control agreements providing for the payment of severance benefits and acceleration of vesting stock options in the event of a termination of employment in connection with a change of control of the Company. Accelerated vesting of options could result in dilution to our existing stockholders and harm the market price of our common stock. The payment of these severance benefits could harm our financial condition and results. In addition, these potential severance payments under these agreements may discourage or prevent third parties from seeking a business combination with the Company. As a “smaller reporting company,” the Company has not been subject to the full requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If the Company is unable to favorably assess the effectiveness of its internal controls over financial reporting, or if, beginning the year ending December 31, 2010, the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on the Company’s assessment, the price of the Company’s common stock could be adversely affected. Pursuant to Section 404 of SOX, the Company’s management is required to report on the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2009, and the Company’s independent auditor will be required to attest to the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, as of June 15, 2010, in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2010. As a “smaller reporting company,” the Company has not been subject to the full requirements of Section 404 of SOX. During 2007, the Company installed systems of internal accounting and administrative controls it believes are needed to comply with Section 404 of SOX. Testing of systems installed was performed to enable management to report on the effectiveness of the controls as of December 31, 2009. While management did not identify any material weaknesses in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, there can be no assurance that the systems will be deemed effective when the Company’s independent auditor reviews the systems during 2010, and tests transactions. In addition, any updates to the Company’s finance and accounting systems, procedures and controls, which may be required as a result of the Company’s ongoing analysis of its internal controls, or results of testing by the Company or its independent auditor, may require significant time and expense. If the Company fails to have effective internal control over financial reporting, is unable to complete any necessary modifications to its internal control reporting, or if the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide the Company with an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of the Company’s financial reports and in the reliability of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, which could lead to a substantial price decline in the Company’s common stock. 33 Table of Contents The stock price of the Company’s common stock is likely to be volatile and you may lose all, or a substantial portion, of your investment. The trading price of the Company’s common stock has been and is likely to continue to be volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond the Company’s control including, among others, lack of trading volume in the Company’s stock, concentration of stock ownership by Bay City Capital, the Company’s ability to pursue preclinical and clinical development of the Metabolic Compounds, market perception of the results of the Company’s clinical trials, the Company’s ability to control its operating expenses, the Company’s ability to recruit and enroll patients in potential future clinical trials for VIA-2291, the Company’s ability to acquire new compounds for the pipeline, and in particular, the Company’s ability to obtain necessary financing in the near term and successfully enter into collaborative or strategic arrangements in the long-term. In addition, global market and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile. Continued concerns about the systemic impact of potential long-term and wide-spread recession, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, and the global housing and mortgage markets have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for western and emerging economies. The stock market in general, and the market for biotechnology and development-stage pharmaceutical companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry factors have seriously harmed and may continue to harm the market price of the Company’s common stock, regardless of the Company’s actual operating performance. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against the Company, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. The Company has never paid cash dividends on its common stock, and the Company does not anticipate that it will pay any cash dividends on its common stock in the foreseeable future. The Company has never declared or paid cash dividends on its common stock. In addition, the payment of cash dividends is restricted by the covenants in the Company’s loan from the Lenders. The Company does not anticipate that it will pay any cash dividends on its common stock in the foreseeable future. The Company intends to retain all available funds and any future earnings to fund the development and growth of its business. Any future determination to pay dividends will be at the discretion of the Company’s board of directors and will depend on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, restrictions contained in current or future financing instruments and such other factors as the Company’s board of directors deems relevant. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of the Company’s common stock will be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. 