ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. You should also refer to the other information in this annual report, including the information incorporated by reference into this annual report. The risks and uncertainties we describe below are those that we currently believe may materially affect us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of or that we currently deem immaterial also may become important factors that affect us. Risks Related to the Proposed Transaction with VIA The number of shares that VIA stockholders will be entitled to receive at closing of the merger is dependent upon the net cash balance of Corautus at closing. The lesser the amount of Corautus’ net cash at closing, the greater the number of shares of Corautus common stock VIA stockholders will be entitled to receive in the merger and the more the present ownership in Corautus will be diluted. As of the date of this report and assuming the merger closes in the second quarter of 2007, Corautus anticipates having approximately $11.25 million of net cash at closing. As a result, Corautus currently 6 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements anticipates that holders of VIA’s equity securities will be entitled to receive in the aggregate approximately 124,279,574 shares of Corautus common stock and options to purchase Corautus common stock at closing and will own approximately 77.59% of the capital stock of the combined company (on a fully-diluted basis), with current Corautus equityholders owning approximately 22.41% of the capital stock of the combined company (on a fully-diluted basis) at closing. The merger agreement provides that the exchange ratio is subject to upward and downward adjustment based on the net cash balance of Corautus (as calculated pursuant to the merger agreement) at the closing of the merger and the aggregate fully-diluted number of shares of each of Corautus and VIA outstanding immediately prior to the closing of the merger. If the net cash balance of Corautus at the closing of the merger is below $11.25 million, the exchange ratio will be adjusted to increase the number of shares of Corautus common stock that holders of VIA’s equity securities will be entitled to receive pursuant to the merger, which would further dilute current Corautus stockholders’ ownership in the combined company. If the net cash balance of Corautus at the closing of the merger is below $11.0 million, Corautus would be unable to satisfy a closing condition for the merger, and VIA may elect not to consummate the merger. If the net cash balance of Corautus at the closing of the merger is greater than $11.25 million, the exchange ratio will be adjusted to decrease the number of shares of Corautus common stock that holders of VIA’s equity securities will be entitled to receive pursuant to the merger, which would dilute current VIA equity holders’ ownership in the combined company. The items that will constitute Corautus’ net cash balance at the closing of the merger are subject to many factors, many of which are outside of Corautus’ control. The following table sets forth the approximate percentage ownership of Corautus that VIA equity holders and current Corautus equity holders would be expected to hold immediately following the closing of the merger, assuming net cash balances of Corautus at the closing of the merger of $11.0 million, $11.25 million, $11.5 million, $11.75 million, $12.0 million, $12.25 million and $12.5 million. Corautus’ Net Cash Balance at Closing Corautus Stockholders’ApproximateOwnership Percentagein the CombinedCompany at Closing VIA Stockholders’Approximate Ownership Percentagein the CombinedCompany at Closing $11,000,000 22.02 % 77.98 % $11,250,000 22.41 % 77.59 % $11,500,000 22.79 % 77.21 % $11,750,000 23.17 % 76.83 % $12,000,000 23.55 % 76.45 % $12,250,000 23.92 % 76.08 % $12,500,000 24.29 % 75.71 % The ownership percentages set forth above represent ownership percentages of Corautus at the time of closing of the merger. Corautus will require substantial additional funding shortly after consummation of the merger. Any such financing will further dilute ownership interest in Corautus. Because the lack of a public market for VIA’s capital stock makes it difficult to evaluate the fairness of the merger, the stockholders of VIA may receive consideration in the merger that is greater than or less than the fair market value of VIA’s capital stock. The outstanding capital stock of VIA is privately-held and is not traded in any public market. The lack of a public market makes it extremely difficult to determine the fair market value of VIA. Since the percentage of Corautus equity to be issued to VIA stockholders was determined based on negotiations between the parties, it is possible that the value of Corautus common stock to be issued to VIA stockholders in connection with the merger will be greater than the fair market value of VIA. Alternatively, it is possible that the value of the shares of Corautus common stock to be issued in connection with the merger will be less than the fair market value of VIA. 7 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The exchange ratio is not adjustable based on the market price of Corautus common stock and if the market price of Corautus common stock increases, the aggregate value of the shares of Corautus common stock that VIA stockholders will be entitled to receive pursuant to the merger could be significantly higher. The merger agreement has set the exchange ratio for the VIA capital stock and such exchange ratio is only adjustable upward or downward depending upon Corautus’ net cash balance, as calculated pursuant to the merger agreement, at the closing of the merger, not the market price of Corautus common stock. Accordingly, any changes in the market price of Corautus common stock will not affect the number of shares that VIA stockholders will be entitled to receive pursuant to the merger. Some of Corautus’ officers and directors have interests in the merger that may be different from yours and may influence them to support the merger without regard to your interests. Certain officers and directors of Corautus participate in arrangements that provide them with interests in the merger that may be different from yours, including, among others, severance benefits, the acceleration of stock and stock option vesting and continued indemnification. These interests, among others, may influence the officers and directors of Corautus to support or approve the merger. Failure to complete the merger may result in Corautus paying a termination fee to VIA and could harm Corautus’ future business and operations and cause the price of Corautus’ common stock to decline. If the merger is not completed, Corautus may be subject to the following risks: • if the merger agreement is terminated, under certain circumstances Corautus will be required to pay VIA a termination fee of $425,000, plus an amount equal to VIA’s reasonable documented out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the merger agreement up to $425,000; • the price of Corautus stock may decline; and • our costs related to the merger, such as legal, accounting and certain financial advisory fees, must be paid, even if the merger is not completed. In addition, if the merger agreement is terminated and Corautus’ or VIA’s board of directors determines to seek another business combination, there can be no assurance that Corautus will be able to find a partner willing to provide equivalent or more attractive consideration than the consideration to be provided by VIA in the merger. In such circumstances, Corautus’ board of directors may elect to attempt to complete another strategic transaction like the merger or take the steps necessary to liquidate all of Corautus’ remaining assets, and in such cases, the consideration that Corautus receives for its remaining assets may be less attractive than the consideration to be received by Corautus’ stockholders pursuant to the merger agreement. If the conditions to the merger are not met, the merger may not occur. Even if the necessary approvals are obtained from the stockholders of Corautus and VIA, specified conditions must be satisfied or waived for the merger to be consummated. These conditions include, among others, Corautus having a net cash balance of at least $11.0 million at closing, and are described in detail in the merger agreement. We cannot assure you that all of the conditions will be satisfied. If the conditions are not satisfied or waived, the merger will not occur or will be delayed, and we may lose some or all of the intended benefits of the merger. 8 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements VIA is a development stage company subject to risks related to, among others, technology efficacy, intellectual property and financing. Because VIA’s business will constitute the business of the combined company after the closing of the merger, if any negative events occur with respect to VIA’s technology, intellectual property, or financing, those events could cause the potential benefits of the merger not to be realized. Corautus is in the process of winding-down its operations related to its terminated GENASIS Phase II trial, and, as a result, the business of the combined company immediately following the merger will be the business conducted by VIA immediately prior to the merger. As a result, if a negative event should occur with respect to VIA’s technology or intellectual property, those events could cause the potential benefits of the merger not to be realized, a difficulty in identifying and obtaining financing, and the market price of Corautus’ common stock to decline. Risks Related to Our Business If the merger with VIA is not completed, Corautus may not have continuing business operations. Our board of directors has authorized the termination of our operations and clinical trials related to VEGF-2, which was our only product candidate. Additionally, we are in the process of terminating many of our intellectual property license agreements. Should we not complete the merger with VIA, we may not have any ongoing business operations, and our board of directors will need to consider other alternatives, including liquidation and dissolution. Corautus’ business to date has been largely dependent on the success of VEGF-2 in the treatment of cardiovascular and vascular disease, which were the subjects of the Phase IIb GENASIS clinical trial that we terminated in 2006. Although we ceased the development of VEGF-2 and have reduced our workforce, we may be unable to successfully manage our remaining resources, including available net cash, while we seek to wind-down operations related to VEGF-2 and implement the merger with VIA. Corautus’s Phase IIb GENASIS clinical trial testing the safety and efficiency of VEGF-2 in patients with cardiovascular and vascular disease was discontinued during 2006 based upon the recommendation of the independent Data and Safety Monitoring Board, or DSMB, with oversight responsibility for these clinical trials. The DSMB concluded that the clinical trial data were unlikely to provide significant evidence of achievement of the primary endpoint for VEGF-2-treated patients versus patients who received placebo. We had previously devoted substantially all of our research, development and clinical efforts and financial resources to the development of VEGF-2. In connection with the termination of our clinical trial for VEGF-2, we announced a realignment of our business activities, including significant workforce reductions, and incurred approximately $1.4 million of severance and related costs in 2006, the substantial majority of which were cash expenditures. As a result of the discontinuation of our clinical trials, we are in the process of terminating many of our remaining intellectual property license agreements, development programs and manufacturing operations for VEGF-2. We may be unable to successfully reduce expenses associated with our existing manufacturing agreement, intellectual property agreements, clinical trial agreements and other commitments related to VEGF-2. If the merger with VIA is not consummated and we were to liquidate and dissolve, no distributions would be made to common stockholders. If the merger with VIA is not completed and we were to liquidate and dissolve, we cannot predict when, or if, we would be able to make a distribution to our stockholders. However, our Series C Preferred Stock, Series D Preferred Stock, and Series E Preferred Stock have preferences to distributions upon liquidation that exceed the amount of cash now available, and we anticipate that upon liquidation all of our assets would be distributed to the holders of our preferred stock, and the holders of common stock would receive no distributions. 9 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements If the merger with VIA is not consummated, we will need substantial additional funding to identify and develop product candidates or life science opportunities and for our future operations. In the event the merger with VIA is not consummated, we will need to identify other business opportunities or develop other product candidates, which will require a commitment of substantial funds to conduct the costly and time-consuming research and due diligence, pre-clinical and clinical testing necessary to obtain regulatory approvals and bring our product candidates to market. We will need to raise substantial additional capital to fund our future operations. We cannot be certain that additional financing will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. To the extent we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our existing stockholders will be diluted. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of debt securities, these securities are likely to have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our common stock and preferred stock. Moreover, we may enter into financing transactions at prices that represent a substantial discount to market price. A negative reaction by investors and securities analysts to any discounted sale of our equity securities could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. If the merger with VIA is not consummated, we may continue to incur the expense of complying with public company reporting requirements. We have an obligation to continue to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, even though compliance with such reporting requirements is economically burdensome. If the merger with VIA is not completed and we were to liquidate and dissolve, then to curtail such expenses, we might seek relief from the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, for a substantial portion of the periodic reporting requirements under the Exchange Act after filing our certificate of dissolution upon stockholder approval of a plan of liquidation. There can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain such relief and that we would not deplete our cash in an effort to comply. We may not have the staff or infrastructure necessary to develop or exploit life science opportunities or product candidates that we may identify. On October 30, 2006, our board of directors determined that it was in the best interests of the company to significantly reduce our workforce. That workforce has now been reduced to two employees and one part-time consultant. Identifying life sciences opportunities, conducting clinical trials, and obtaining development, manufacturing and distribution partners requires knowledgeable and experienced employees as well as a developed infrastructure. In the event the merger with VIA is not consummated, we may not have sufficient staff or infrastructure to identify new life sciences opportunities or develop and commercialize product candidates based upon such life science opportunities, and we may be unsuccessful in outsourcing the work that could have been performed by employees. We have substantially reduced our workforce as part of our wind-down of operations. During 2006, we significantly reduced our work-force to two employees and one part-time consultant. If the merger with VIA is not completed, it may be difficult for us to identify new business opportunities or efficiently implement the staged wind-down of our business. We are highly dependent on key management personnel. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our management staff, particularly our President and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. Our President and Chief Executive Officer ceased being a full-time employee on January 1, 2007 and serves as a part-time consultant. As a result of the termination of our VEGF-2 business, it may be difficult to adequately incent our remaining two 10 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements employees to continue working for us. The loss of either of these employees or our consultant could have a material adverse effect on our ability to identify new business opportunities if the merger with VIA is not consummated. We may be unable to maintain our listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market. Failure to maintain our listing could adversely affect our business, and the liquidity of our common stock and stock price would be negatively affected. Our common stock is currently traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market. To maintain a listing on NASDAQ, we must maintain minimum listing requirements, including certain levels of stockholders’ equity, market capitalization and minimum bid price for our common stock. Currently, we do not satisfy certain of these requirements. Additionally, NASDAQ may consider, among other things, the nature of the business, financial integrity and future outlook of a company in considering whether to de-list a company. If our common stock is de-listed from NASDAQ, it would reduce the liquidity of our common stock, and could decrease the market price of our common stock and negatively impact our ability to obtain additional capital. We are a development stage company with a history of insignificant revenues and significant net losses. We currently do not have a lead product candidate in clinical trials. We expect continued net losses for the foreseeable future, and we may never become profitable. We are a development stage company, and we have not yet generated significant revenues. From our inception in July 1991 to December 31, 2006, we have incurred net losses of approximately $125 million, including net losses of approximately $15 million in 2006, almost all of which consisted of research and development, clinical trials and general and administrative expenses. Our board of directors determined in the fourth quarter of 2006 that it was in our best interest and the best interest of our stockholders at the present time to not conduct further clinical trials of VEGF-2 for the treatment of cardiovascular and peripheral vascular disease, and we instead are redirecting our focus to other life science opportunities. In addition, we do not expect to generate revenues from sales for a number of years, if at all. As a result, we expect our net losses from operations to continue for the foreseeable future. Our ability to generate revenues and become profitable will depend on our ability, alone or with collaborators, to timely, efficiently and successfully identify and develop product candidates, conduct pre-clinical and clinical tests, obtain necessary regulatory approvals, and manufacture and market product candidates. We may not be successful in identifying and securing life sciences opportunities with commercial promise. We may never generate profits and, even if we do achieve profitability, we cannot predict the level or sustainability of such profitability. We currently do not have a product candidate. We previously have focused our operations on clinical trials related to VEGF-2 product candidates. Because of our board of directors’ determination to cease VEGF-2 clinical trials, we currently do not have a product candidate. Therefore, we will need to identify new technology in order to have a product candidate. Failure to develop a product candidate will significantly limit our ability to generate revenue. Any product candidate requires additional research, development, testing and regulatory approvals prior to marketing. If any product candidates are delayed or fail, our financial condition will be negatively affected, and we may have to curtail or cease our operations. We are in the early stage of product development. We currently do not sell any products, do not have any product candidates, and do not expect to have any product candidates commercially available for several years, if at all. Any proposed product candidates require additional research and development, clinical testing and regulatory clearances prior to marketing. There are many reasons that proposed product candidates may fail or not advance beyond clinical testing, including the possibility that: • proposed product candidates may be ineffective, unsafe or associated with unacceptable side effects; 11 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • proposed product candidates may fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals or otherwise fail to meet applicable regulatory standards; • proposed product candidates may be too expensive to develop, manufacture or market; • physicians, patients, third-party payers or the medical community in general may not accept or use proposed product candidates; • collaborators may withdraw support for or otherwise impair the development and commercialization of proposed product candidates; • other parties may hold or acquire proprietary rights that could prevent us or our collaborators from developing or marketing proposed product candidates; or • others may develop equivalent or superior products candidates. In addition, proposed product candidates are subject to the risks of failure inherent in the development of medical therapy products based on innovative technologies. As a result, we are not able to predict whether our research, development and testing activities will result in any commercially viable products or applications. If product candidates are delayed or we fail to successfully identify, develop and commercialize product candidates, our financial condition may be negatively affected, and we may have to curtail or cease our operations. Because we cannot predict whether or when we will obtain regulatory approval to commercialize any product candidates, we cannot predict the timing of any future revenue from these product candidates. We cannot commercialize any product candidates to generate revenue until the appropriate regulatory authorities have reviewed and approved the applications for the product candidates. We cannot assure you that the regulatory agencies will complete their review processes in a timely manner or that we will obtain regulatory approval for any product candidate we or our collaborators develop. Satisfaction of regulatory requirements typically takes many years, is dependent upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. Outside the United States, the ability to market a product is also contingent upon receiving clearances from appropriate foreign regulatory authorities. In addition, we may experience delays or rejections based upon additional government regulation from future legislation or administrative action or changes in FDA policy during the period of product development, clinical trials and FDA regulatory review. If the delays are significant, they would negatively affect our financial results, ability to raise capital and our commercial prospects for future product candidates. We may not successfully establish and maintain collaborative and licensing arrangements, which could adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize product candidates. We are also limited by the collaboration and marketing arrangements on which we rely. Our strategy for the development, testing, manufacturing and commercialization of product candidates relies on establishing and maintaining collaborations with corporate partners, licensors and other third parties. We may not be able to maintain or expand these licenses and collaborations or establish additional licensing and collaboration arrangements necessary to develop and commercialize product candidates. Even if we are able to maintain or establish licensing or collaboration arrangements, these arrangements may not be on favorable terms. Any failure to maintain or establish licensing or collaboration arrangements on favorable terms could adversely affect our business prospects, financial condition or ability to develop and commercialize product candidates. 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We rely on third parties to manufacture any product candidates. There can be no guarantee that we can obtain sufficient and acceptable quantities of any product candidates on acceptable terms, which may delay or impair our ability to develop, test and market such product candidates. We currently do not have any manufacturing capabilities. Our business strategy relies on third parties to manufacture and produce any product candidates. These third party manufacturers are subject to extensive government regulation and must receive FDA approval before they can produce clinical material or commercial product. Regulatory difficulties experienced by others could affect our ability to obtain products when needed. Any product candidates may be subject to delays if third party manufacturers give other products greater priority than our product candidates. These third parties may also not deliver sufficient quantities of our product candidates, manufacture our product candidates in accordance with specifications, or comply with applicable government regulations. Additionally, if the manufactured product candidates fail to perform as specified, our business and reputation could be severely impacted. We depend on clinical trial arrangements with medical institutions to advance our technology, and the loss of these arrangements could impair the development of product candidates. We may rely upon medical institutions for the conduct of any clinical trials. The early termination of any of these clinical trial arrangements or the failure of these institutions to comply with the regulations and requirements governing clinical trials would hinder the progress of our clinical trial program. If any of these relationships are terminated, the clinical trial might not be completed, and the results might not be able to be evaluated. If we are unable to maintain agreements with third parties to perform sales, marketing and distribution functions, we will be required to develop these capabilities to commercialize any proposed product candidates. We currently have no sales, marketing or distribution capabilities. Therefore, to commercialize any product candidates, if and when such products have been approved and are ready for marketing, we must collaborate with third parties to perform these functions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into arrangements with companies to commercialize any product candidates. We have no experience in developing, training or managing a sales force, and we will incur substantial additional expenses if we are forced to market our product candidates directly. Developing a marketing and sales force is also time consuming and could delay launch of our product candidates. In addition, we will compete with many companies that currently have extensive and well-funded marketing and sales operations. Our marketing and sales efforts may be unable to compete successfully against these companies. If we do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements in the manufacture and distribution of product candidates, we may incur penalties that may inhibit our ability to commercialize our product candidates and adversely affect our revenue. Our failure or the failure of our collaborators or third party manufacturers to comply with applicable FDA or other regulatory requirements including manufacturing, quality control, labeling, safety surveillance, promoting and reporting may result in criminal prosecution, civil penalties, recall or seizure of our product candidates, total or partial suspension of production or an injunction, as well as other regulatory action against our product candidates or us. Discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, supplier, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on the sale of our product candidates, including a withdrawal of the product candidates from the market. 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We are exposed to potential risks resulting from Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are evaluating our internal controls to allow management to report on, and our independent registered certified public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We may encounter unexpected delays in implementing the requirements relating to internal controls; therefore, we cannot be certain about the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact that these activities will have on our operations since there is no precedent available by which to measure the adequacy of our compliance. We also expect to incur additional expenses and diversion of management’s time as a result of performing the system and process evaluation, testing and remediation required in order to comply with the management certification and independent registered certified public accounting firm attestation requirements. If we are not able to timely comply with the requirements set forth in Section 404, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities. Any such action could adversely affect our business and financial results. The requirement to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 is expected to become effective, at the earliest, for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2007. In addition, in our system of internal controls we may rely on the internal controls of third parties. In our evaluation of our internal controls, we will consider the implication of our reliance on the internal controls of third parties. Until we have completed our evaluation, we are unable to determine the extent of our reliance on those controls, the extent and nature of the testing of those controls, and remediation actions necessary where that reliance cannot be adequately evaluated and tested. Risks Related to Intellectual Property If our right to use intellectual property we license from third parties is terminated or adversely affected, our financial condition, operations or ability to develop and commercialize any proposed product candidates will be materially harmed. We do not own any patents and have not filed any patent applications. We may rely on licenses to use certain technologies that are material to our operations, both to have freedom to carry out our business and to protect our market from competitors. The success of our operations will depend in part on our ability and that of our licensors to: • obtain patent protection for our methods of gene therapy, therapeutic genes and/or gene-delivery methods both in the United States and in other countries with substantial markets; • defend patents once obtained against third party infringers; • maintain trade secrets and operate without infringing patents and proprietary rights of others; and • obtain and maintain appropriate licenses upon reasonable terms to patents or proprietary rights held by others that are necessary or useful to us in commercializing our technology, both in the United States and in other countries with substantial markets. In addition, the license agreements may include certain milestones that we must meet in order to maintain these licenses. There is no assurance that we can meet such upcoming milestones in either license or that we can obtain any necessary extensions of the milestones in the future. Our licensors may terminate these licenses if we fail to meet the applicable milestones. If we or our licensors are not able to obtain and maintain adequate patent protection for our product candidates, we may be unable to commercialize our product candidates or to prevent others from using our technology in competitive products. 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain patent protection both in the United States and in other countries for our product candidates and their use. We have no patents in our own name. We have, however, licensed patents and patent applications and other proprietary rights from third parties that cover our product candidates. Our ability to protect our product candidates from unauthorized or infringing use by third parties depends at least initially on the willingness and cooperation of our licensors to assert the patent rights licensed to us. Due to evolving legal standards relating to the patentability, validity and enforceability of patents covering biotechnology inventions and the scope of claims made under these patents, the ability of our licensors to obtain and enforce patents is uncertain and involves complex legal and factual considerations. Accordingly, rights under any issued patents may not provide us with sufficient protection for our product candidates or provide sufficient protection to afford us a commercial advantage against our competitors or their competitive products or processes. In addition, we cannot guarantee that any patents will be issued from any pending or future patent applications licensed to us. Even if issued, we cannot guarantee that the claims of these patents are, or will be, valid or enforceable, or provide us with any significant protection against competitive products or otherwise be commercially valuable to us. In addition, others may challenge, seek to invalidate, infringe or circumvent any patents or patent applications we license, and rights we receive under those patents or patent applications may not provide competitive advantages to us. Further, the manufacture, use or sale of our product candidates may infringe the patent rights of others. We may not have identified all patents, published applications or published literature that affect our business either by blocking our ability to commercialize our drugs, by negatively impacting the patentability of our product candidates to our licensees, or by disclosing the same or similar technologies on which basis our licensors’ patents may not be valid, limit the scope of our or our licensors’ future patent claims or adversely affect our ability to market our product candidates. For example, patent applications in the United States are maintained in confidence for up to 18 months after the filing of their earliest priority application. In some cases, however, patent applications, such as those filed prior to November 29, 2000, remain confidential in the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, for the entire time prior to issuance as a U.S. patent. Similarly, patent applications filed in foreign countries are typically published 18 months after the filing date of their earliest priority application. Publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries. Therefore, we cannot be certain that our licensors were the first to invent, or the first to file, patent applications covering our product candidates or their use. In the event that a third party has also filed a U.S. patent application covering our product candidates or a similar invention, we may have to participate in an adversarial proceeding, known as an interference, in the USPTO to determine priority of invention in the United States. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial, and our efforts could be unsuccessful, resulting in a loss of our U.S. patent position. The laws of some foreign jurisdictions do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as in the United States and many companies have encountered significant difficulties in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. If we or our licensors encounter such difficulties in protecting or are otherwise precluded from effectively protecting our intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions, our business prospects could be substantially harmed. We may not have adequate protection for our unpatented proprietary information, which could adversely affect our competitive position. We also rely on unpatented trade secrets and know-how to maintain our competitive position, which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants and others. These parties may breach or terminate these agreements, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Our trade secrets may also be independently discovered by competitors. We rely on certain technologies to which we do not have exclusive rights or which may not be patentable or proprietary and thus may be available to competitors. 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Risks Related to Our Industry Negative public opinion and increased regulatory scrutiny of gene therapy and genetic research may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business or obtain regulatory approvals for our product candidates. Ethical, social and legal concerns about gene therapy and genetic research could result in additional regulations restricting or prohibiting the products and processes we may use. Even with the requisite approvals, the commercial success of any product candidates will depend in part on public acceptance of the use of such therapies for the treatment of human disease. Public attitudes may be influenced by claims that gene therapy is unsafe, and gene therapy may not gain the acceptance of the public or the medical community. More restrictive government regulations or negative public opinion would have a negative effect on our business or financial condition and may delay or impair the development and commercialization of our product candidates. We are subject to significant government regulation with respect to our product candidates. Compliance with government regulation can be a costly and time-consuming process, with no assurance of ultimate regulatory approval. If these approvals are not obtained, we will not be able to sell our product candidates. We and our collaborators are subject to extensive and rigorous government regulation in the United States and foreign countries. The FDA, the National Institutes of Health and comparable agencies in foreign countries impose many requirements on the introduction of new pharmaceutical products through lengthy and detailed clinical testing procedures and other costly and time consuming compliance procedures. These requirements vary widely from country to country and make it difficult to estimate when our product candidates will be commercially available, if at all. In addition, gene therapies such as those being developed by us are relatively new and are only beginning to be tested in humans. Regulatory authorities may require us or our collaborators to demonstrate that product candidates are improved treatments relative to other therapies or may significantly modify the requirements governing gene therapies, which could result in regulatory delays or rejections. If we are delayed or fail to obtain required approvals for our product candidates, our operations and financial condition would be damaged. We may not sell product candidates without applicable regulatory approvals. Numerous regulations in the United States and abroad also govern the manufacturing, safety, labeling, storage, record keeping, reporting and marketing of any product candidates. Compliance with these regulatory requirements is time consuming and expensive. If we fail to comply with regulatory requirements, either prior to approval or in marketing our product candidates after approval, we could be subject to regulatory or judicial enforcement actions. These actions could result in withdrawal of existing approvals, product recalls, injunctions, civil penalties, criminal prosecution, and enhanced exposure to product liabilities. We face the risk of product liability claims, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our operations will expose us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of gene therapy products and could prevent or delay the commercialization of our product candidates or negatively affect our financial condition. Regardless of the merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in withdrawal of proposed product candidates from clinical trials, costs of litigation, and substantial monetary awards to plaintiffs and decreased demand for products. 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Product liability may result from harm to patients using our product candidates as a result of mislabeling, misuse or product failure. While we require all patients enrolled in our clinical trials to sign consents, which explain the risks involved with participating in the trial, the consents provide only a limited level of protection. Additionally, we indemnify the clinical centers and related entities in connection with losses they may incur through their involvement in the clinical trials. Product liability insurance is expensive and we may not be able to maintain our product liability coverage on acceptable terms or obtain adequate coverage against potential liabilities. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile, and an investment in our common stock could significantly decline in value. The market prices for securities of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies in general, have been highly volatile and may continue to be highly volatile in the future. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile based on the following factors, in addition to other risk factors described herein and in light of the low volume of trades in our common stock: • developments concerning any research and development, clinical trials, manufacturing, and marketing collaborations; • announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by our competitors or us; • developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents; • publicity regarding actual or potential results relating to medicinal products under development by our competitors or us; • regulatory developments in the United States and other countries; • litigation; • economic and other external factors, including disasters or crises; or • period-to-period fluctuations in financial results. You may have difficulty selling your shares of common stock at or above the price paid for such shares or at the time you would like to sell. We have a low volume of daily trades in our common stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market, which could make it difficult to conduct large transactions in our common stock. In addition, any sales by stockholders of a large number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that the holders of a large number of our shares intend to sell our common stock, may cause a significant reduction in the price of our common stock. In this regard, we have a significant number of shares of common stock underlying outstanding options and warrants that are currently exercisable and eligible for immediate sale in the public market. The issuance of common stock upon the exercise of stock options and warrants would also dilute existing investors. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, causing volatility in our stock price. 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We do not receive any revenues from sales. Our results of operations historically have fluctuated on a quarterly basis, which we expect to continue. Our results of operations at any given time will be based primarily on the following factors: • the status of development of product candidates; • whether we enter into collaboration agreements and the timing and accounting treatment of payments, if any, to us under those agreements; • whether and when we achieve specified development or commercialization milestones; and • the addition or termination of research programs or funding support. We believe that quarterly comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. These fluctuating results may cause the price of our stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially. We may be unable to maintain our listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market. Failure to maintain our listing could adversely affect our business, and the liquidity of our common stock would be seriously limited. Our common stock is currently traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market. To maintain a listing on NASDAQ, we must maintain minimum listing requirements, including certain levels of stockholders’ equity, market capitalization, and minimum bid price for our common stock. Currently, we do not satisfy certain of these requirements. Additionally, NASDAQ may consider, among other things, nature of the business, financial integrity and future outlook of a company in considering whether to de-list a company. If our common stock is de-listed from NASDAQ, it could reduce the liquidity of our common stock, decrease the market price of our common stock and negatively impact our ability to obtain additional capital. As discussed above, we currently are not in compliance with the NASDAQ Stock Market’s requirements for continued listing because the bid price of our common stock had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued inclusion under NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(4). We have until May 21, 2007, to regain compliance with the NASDAQ Stock Market’s requirements for continued listing. Additionally, we received a notification from NASDAQ that our common stock would be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market because NASDAQ believes we currently are not engaged in active business operations and are therefore a “public shell.” On March 23, 2007, we received a decision from the hearing panel providing us until April 17, 2007 to mail proxy materials to our stockholders regarding the transaction with VIA Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and until May 21, 2007 to consummate such transaction. There are no assurances that we can meet these deadlines, and failure to meet these deadlines could result in the loss of our listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS NONE 