ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business The building products industry is experiencing a severe downturn that may continue for an indefinite period into the future. Because the markets for our building products are heavily dependent on the residential construction and remodeling market, our revenues could decrease as a result of events outside our control that impact home construction and home improvement activity, including economic factors specific to the building products industry. Since 2006, there has been a severe slowing of new housing starts and in home sales generally. Bank foreclosures have put a large number of homes into the market for sale, effectively limiting some of the incentives to build new homes. The homebuilding industry continues to experience a significant and sustained decrease in demand for new homes and an oversupply of new and existing homes available for sale since 2006. While our residential building products business relies upon the home improvement and remodeling markets as well as new construction, we have experienced a slowdown in sales activity beginning in fiscal 2007, and continuing in 2008 and 2009. Interest rate increases, limits on credit availability, further foreclosures, home price depreciation, and an oversupply of homes for sale in the market may adversely affect homeowners’ and/or homebuilders’ ability or desire to engage in construction or remodeling, resulting in a continued or further slowdown in new construction or remodeling and repair activities. The federal government’s program to provide an $8,000 credit for certain new home buyers, which encouraged home purchases, has been extended for home purchase contracts entered into before April 30, 2010. Termination of this program in 2010 may have an adverse effect on home sales generally and negatively affect our building products business. We, like many others in the building products industry, experienced a large drop in orders and a reduction in our margins in 2008 and 2009, relative to prior years. For the past three years, we have recorded significant 17 Table of Contents goodwill impairments associated with our building products business. We can provide no assurances that the building products market will improve in the near future. To the extent weakness continues into 2010, it will have an adverse effect on our business and our results of operations. The construction markets are seasonal. The majority of our building products sales are in the residential construction market, which tends to slow down in the winter months. If there is more severe weather than normal, or other events outside of our control, there may be a negative effect on our revenues if we are not able to increase market share. For the winter months of 2009 and 2010, we expect that our decreased seasonal revenues from HBP and HRI will result in negative cash flow. The recent financial crisis could negatively affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Market conditions in the mortgage lending and mortgage finance industries deteriorated significantly in 2008 and 2009, which adversely affected the availability of credit for home purchasers and remodelers. The recent financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets and the going concern threats to banks and other financial institutions have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, including mortgages and home equity loans, and extreme volatility in credit and equity markets. Further tightening of mortgage lending or mortgage financing requirements could adversely affect the availability of credit for purchasers of our products and thereby reduce our sales. There could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on our business, including the inability of prospective homebuyers or remodelers to obtain credit to finance the purchase of our building products. These and other similar factors could: • cause delay or decisions to not undertake new home construction or improvement projects, • cause our customers to delay or decide not to purchase our building products, • lead to a decline in customer transactions and our financial performance. Our building products business has been strengthened by the sales growth of new products. If we are unable to continue to successfully expand our new product sales, our revenue growth may be adversely affected. Our growth strategy includes the introduction of new building products by our light building products business. Part of our revenues has come from sales in new product categories. New products require capital for development, manufacturing, and acquisition activities. If we are unable to sustain new product sales growth, whether for lack of access to adequate capital or for other reasons, sales will follow the general industry slowdown in new residential construction and remodeling activity, which will negatively affect our revenue and growth. Demand for our building products may decrease because of changes in customer preferences or because competing products gain price advantages. If demand for our products declines, our revenues will decrease. Our building products are subject to reductions in customer demand for reasons such as changes in preferred home styles and appearances. Many of our resin-based siding accessory products are complementary to an owner’s choice of vinyl as a siding material. If sales of vinyl siding decrease, sale of our accessories will also decrease. Similarly, sales of our manufactured architectural stone products are dependent on the continuing popularity of stone finishes. Demand for our building products can also decline if competing products become relatively less expensive. For example, if costs of petroleum-based resins that are used to make vinyl siding and accessories increase faster than the costs of stucco, then stucco products, which we do not sell, will become more attractive from a price standpoint, and our vinyl siding and accessory sales may decrease. If demand for our building products declines because of changes in the popularity or price advantages of our products, our revenues will be adversely affected. 18 Table of Contents A significant increase in the price of materials used in the production of our building products that cannot be passed on to customers could have a significant adverse effect on our operating income. Furthermore, we depend upon limited sources for certain key production materials, the interruption of which would materially disrupt our ability to manufacture and supply products, resulting in lost revenues and the potential loss of customers. Our manufactured architectural stone and concrete block manufacturing processes require key production materials including cement, man made and natural aggregates, oxides, packaging materials, and certain types of rubber-based products. The suppliers of these materials may experience capacity or supply constraints in meeting market demand that limit our ability to obtain needed production materials on a timely basis or at expected prices. We have no long-term contracts with such suppliers. We do not currently maintain large inventories of production materials and alternative sources meeting our requirements could be difficult to arrange in the short term. A significant increase in the price of these materials that cannot be passed on to customers could have a significant adverse effect on our cost of sales and operating income. Additionally, our manufacturing and ability to provide products to its customers could be materially disrupted if this supply of materials was interrupted for any reason. Such an interruption and the resulting inability to supply our manufactured architectural stone customers with products could adversely impact our revenues and our relationships with our customers. Certain of our home siding accessory products are manufactured from polypropylene, which material is sold to us by a single supplier. The price of polypropylene is primarily a function of manufacturing capacity, demand and the prices of petrochemical feedstocks, crude oil and natural gas liquids. Historically, the market price of polypropylene has fluctuated, and significantly increased in 2008. A significant increase in the price of polypropylene that cannot be passed on to customers could have a significant adverse effect on our cost of sales and operating income. We do not have a long-term contract with our polypropylene supplier. We do not maintain large inventories of polypropylene and alternative sources of polypropylene could be difficult to arrange in the short term. Therefore, our manufacturing and ability to provide products to our customers could be materially disrupted if this supply of polypropylene was interrupted for any reason. Such an interruption and the resulting inability to supply our resin-based siding accessory customers with products could adversely impact our revenues and potentially our relationships with our customers. Interruption of our ability to immediately ship individual or custom product orders could harm our reputation and result in lost revenues if customers turn to other sources for products. Our building products business is highly dependent upon rapid shipments to contractors and distributors throughout the United States of individual orders, a large portion of which orders are manufactured upon demand to meet customer specifications. If there is significant interruption of business at any of our manufacturing plants or with our computer systems that track customer orders and production, we are at risk of harming its reputation for speed and reliability with important customers and losing short-term and long-term revenues if these customers turn to other sources. Tapco’s revenues would be materially adversely affected if it lost one or more of its three major customers. Three customers of our resin-based siding accessory products together accounted for approximately 26% of Tapco’s revenues for such products in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2009, and approximately 6% of our total revenues as of such date. There are no long-term contracts in place with these customers. Accordingly, a loss of or significant decrease in demand from these customers would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our construction materials business has been severely affected by recent downturns in governmental infrastructure spending. Our fly ash and concrete block products, and to a much lesser extent, our other building products, are used in public infrastructure projects, which include the construction, maintenance, and improvement of highways, 19 Table of Contents bridges, schools, prisons and similar projects. Our business is dependent on the level of federal, state, and local spending on these projects. We cannot be assured of the existence, amount, and timing of appropriations for government spending on these projects. Federal and state budget limitations may continue to decrease severely the funding available for infrastructure spending. The lack of available credit has limited the ability of states to issue bonds to finance construction projects. In addition, infrastructure spending continues to be adversely affected by the overall weakness in the economy, which leads to lower tax revenues and state government budget deficits. Shortages in state tax revenues can reduce the amounts spent on state infrastructure projects, even below amounts awarded by the legislatures. Delays in state infrastructure spending can hurt our business. Further, rising construction and material prices constrain infrastructure construction budgets. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (“ARRA”) enacted in early 2009 provided billions of dollars in new stimulus funding for transportation infrastructure. However, there has been a time delay in Congressional appropriation of such funds and each state’s actions to take advantage of such funding. In addition, each state must approve various infrastructure projects to be funded through the new federal stimulus plan. So while management believes the ARRA will increase our sales in fiscal 2010, we cannot be assured of the amount of funds to be expended and the timing of expenditures under the stimulus plan. If HRI’s coal-fueled electric utility industry suppliers fail to provide it with high-value coal combustion products (“CCPs”) due to environmental regulations or otherwise, HRI’s costs could increase and supply could fail to meet production needs, potentially negatively impacting our profitability or hindering growth. Headwaters Resources relies on the production of CCPs by coal-fueled electric utilities. HRI has occasionally experienced delays and other problems in obtaining high-value CCPs from its suppliers and may in the future be unable to obtain high-value CCPs on the scale and within the time frames required by HRI to meet customers’ needs. Following the judicial invalidation in 2008 of the EPA’s Clean Air Mercury Rule under the 1990 Clean Air Act Amendments, additional technologies at power plants may be required by future regulation or legislation, in order to achieve reductions in mercury emissions that could negatively affect fly ash quality. For example, future regulations could require activated carbon to be injected into power plant exhaust gases to capture mercury. This process may increase the carbon collected with the fly ash and may make the fly ash undesirable for concrete. Carbon removal processes for fly ash are technically challenging and expensive. The EPA has announced that new regulations to control mercury emissions from power plants may be proposed in 2010. Further, as the price of natural gas has decreased to current prices, coal-fueled electric utilities have in some instances switched from coal to natural gas. A reduction in the use of coal as fuel causes a decline in the production and availability of fly ash. To the extent the price of natural gas continues to decrease, more coal-fueled electric utilities may explore the feasibility of switching from coal to natural gas. Increasing concerns about greenhouse gases (“GHG”) or other emissions from burning coal at electricity generation plants could lead to federal or state regulations that encourage or require utilities to burn less or eliminate coal in the production of electricity. Congress and the Obama administration are currently engaged in developing federal legislation to reduce GHG emissions which, among other things, could establish a cap and trade system for GHG, including carbon dioxide emitted by coal burning power plants and requirements for electric utilities to increase their use of renewable energy, such as wind and solar power. Also, the EPA has taken several recent actions toward regulatory efforts to reduce GHG emissions, including its April 2009 proposed finding of “endangerment” to public health and welfare from GHG (forwarded to the Office of Management and Budget on November 9, 2009 for final review prior to expected promulgation), its issuance on September 22, 2009 of the Final Mandatory Reporting of Greenhouse Gases Rule which requires large sources, including coal burning power plants, to report GHG emissions to the EPA annually starting in 2011, and publication in the Federal Register on October 27, 2009, of its proposed Prevention of Significant Deterioration and Title V Greenhouse Gas Tailoring Rule, which would require large industrial facilities, including coal burning power plants, to obtain permits to emit, and to use best available control technology to control GHG. Some states have also adopted or are developing climate change legislation and/or regulations as well. Such legislation and/or 20 Table of Contents regulations could reduce the supply of fly ash and other CCPs. If HRI is unable to obtain CCPs or if it experiences a delay in the delivery of high-value or quality CCPs, HRI will have a reduced supply of CCPs to sell or may be forced to incur significant unanticipated expenses to secure alternative sources or to otherwise maintain supply to customers. Moreover, revenues could be adversely affected if CCP sales volumes cannot be maintained or if customers choose to find alternatives to HRI’s products. If the EPA adopts more stringent regulations governing coal and coal ash management and use, this action would likely have an adverse effect on the cost, beneficial use and sales of CCPs. Headwaters’ coal ash business is dependent upon the management, recovery, processing, transport and beneficial use of coal combustion products and coal combustion wastes received from its clients, typically coal-burning power plants. Following a major spill of coal ash from a surface impoundment at a coal burning power plant in Tennessee in December 2008 from a facility owned by the Tennessee Valley Authority, a corporate agency of the U.S. government not affiliated with HRI, there is mounting pressure on the EPA to regulate coal ash as a hazardous waste. The EPA has announced its intention, by the end of 2009, to propose new regulations governing the handling, storage, transportation and disposal of coal ash wastes, and to determine whether to designate coal ash as a non-hazardous solid waste under Subtitle D of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”) or as a hazardous solid waste under RCRA Subtitle C, or to adopt a “hybrid approach” in which coal ash would be covered under Subtitle C in some circumstances and Subtitle D in others. For example, two hybrid approaches EPA is considering are (i) to treat coal ash as a hazardous waste when it is disposed of, but as non-hazardous when recycled for beneficial use; or (ii) to treat wet storage of coal ash waste in ponds as hazardous, but dry ash for beneficial use or landfill disposal as non-hazardous. If the EPA determines to regulate coal ash as a hazardous waste or adopts a hybrid approach, coal ash would become subject to a variety of hazardous waste regulations and the cost of handling, transporting, storing and disposing of the material would increase, thus increasing regulatory obligations and costs of coal ash management for the utility industry and for Headwaters. Depending on the approach EPA decides to take, its regulations could require modifications to facilities and equipment used to handle, store and transport coal ash, additional training for personnel and increased recordkeeping and reporting, as well as resulting in increased disposal costs at landfills; however, in general, HRI’s contracts with utility clients contain provisions that would allow for increased costs related to regulatory changes to be recovered from the utilities. EPA’s regulations also could directly or indirectly limit, as well as impose regulatory requirements for, existing or proposed beneficial uses of coal ash, including its use as a substitute for portland cement. In addition, state and other regulators responsible for approving beneficial uses of coal ash may restrict its use. These potential increased regulatory obligations and costs, limitations on beneficial uses, and potential increased liabilities could result in reduced or completely eliminated use of coal ash in products. For example, it is possible that there may be restrictions on incorporating coal ash in products that are placed in contact with the ground owing to a risk of potential leaching of metals into the environment. In addition, the stigma associated with products labeled as “hazardous” may lead potential users of products containing coal ash to seek alternatives, resulting in a risk of lost opportunities to market CCPs. However, it is also possible that the EPA could exempt from regulation certain coal combustion wastes used for beneficial purposes, including certain construction applications such as use in concrete and concrete products, cement, road base and wall board. Existing RCRA exemptions may also remain available for products produced for use by the general public that meet certain qualifying conditions. In light of the current uncertainty concerning the scope and details of any final EPA regulations for coal ash, we are not in a position at this time to assess their impact, but there can be no guarantee that such regulation would not reduce or eliminate our supply or our ability to market coal ash and other CCPs which would have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition. In addition, environmental groups have filed a notice of intent to sue the EPA for failing to update effluent limitation guidelines under the Clean Water Act for coal-fired power plants, to limit discharges of toxic metals in waste water from handling of coal combustion waste. The EPA subsequently announced its intention to revise its existing effluent limitation guidelines before 2012 to address toxic pollutants discharged from power plants, 21 Table of Contents including discharges from coal ash ponds. In October 2009, EPA released a report concluding that wet coal ash storage and wastewater discharges from coal-fired power plans have caused a wide range of environmental effects to aquatic life. If the EPA adopts new Clean Water Act requirements and/or chooses to regulate coal ash stored in ponds as a hazardous waste, the regulatory obligations and cost of managing coal combustion waste would likely increase, which could make coal burning more expensive or less attractive to HRI’s utility clients and management and use of coal ash more costly for HRI. Finally, environmental groups have raised concerns regarding pollution from coal mining operations. On October 5, 2009, the Sierra Club and others filed a petition with EPA, alleging that mountaintop coal mining impacts the rural poor in Appalachia and demanding that EPA incorporate environmental justice considerations into its review of mining permits under the Clean Water Act. EPA has announced that, based on its preliminary review of mountaintop mine permits, heightened scrutiny and stronger regulatory provisions will likely be necessary. More stringent regulation of coal mining operations could increase the cost of coal for utilities and thus indirectly impact the availability and cost of coal ash for HRI’s CCP activities. HRI primarily sells fly ash for use in concrete; if use of fly ash does not increase, HRI may not grow. HRI’s growth has been and continues to be dependent upon the increased use of fly ash in the production of concrete. HRI’s marketing initiatives emphasize the environmental, cost and performance advantages of replacing portland cement with fly ash in the production of concrete. If HRI’s marketing initiatives are not successful, HRI may not be able to sustain its growth. Further, utilities are switching fuel sources, changing boiler operations and introducing activated carbon and ammonia into the exhaust gas stream in an effort to decrease costs and/or to meet increasingly stringent emissions control regulations. All of these factors can have a negative effect on fly ash quality, including an increase in the amount of unburned carbon in fly ash and the presence of ammonia slip. We are attempting to address these challenges with the development and/or commercialization of two technologies: carbon fixation, which pre-treats unburned carbon particles in fly ash in order to minimize the particles’ adverse effects, and ammonia slip mitigation, which counteracts the impact of ammonia contaminants in fly ash. Decreased quality of fly ash may impede the use of fly ash in the production of concrete, which would adversely affect HRI’s revenue. If portland cement or competing replacement products are available at lower prices than fly ash, our sales of fly ash as a replacement for portland cement in concrete products could suffer, causing a decline in HRI’s revenues and net income. An estimated 80% of HRI’s revenues for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2009 were derived from the sale of fly ash as a replacement for portland cement in concrete products. At times, there may be an overcapacity of cement in regional markets, causing potential price decreases. The markets for HRI’s products are regional, in part because of the costs of transporting CCPs, and HRI’s business is affected by the availability and cost of competing products in the specific regions where it conducts business. If competing products become available at prices equal to or less than fly ash, HRI’s revenues and net income could decrease. Because demand for CCPs sold by HRI is affected by fluctuations in weather and construction cycles, HRI’s revenues and net income could decrease significantly as a result of unexpected or severe weather. HRI manages and markets CCPs and uses CCPs to produce building products. Utilities produce CCPs year-round. In comparison, sales of CCPs are generally keyed to construction market demands that tend to follow national trends in construction with predictable increases during temperate seasons and decreases during periods of severe weather. HRI’s CCP sales have historically reflected these seasonal trends, with the largest percentage of total annual revenues being realized in the quarters ended June 30 and September 30. Low seasonal demand normally results in reduced shipments and revenues in the quarters ended December 31 and March 31. We expect the seasonal impact on HRI’s revenue, together with the seasonal impact on Tapco and HBP revenues to result in negative cash flows for the winter months of 2009 and 2010. 22 Table of Contents The profitability of HES depends upon the operational success of our new coal cleaning business, which has been adversely affected by decreased demand for coal. Because of the end of HES legacy alternative fuel licensing and chemical reagent sales business as of December 31, 2007, HES began development of its new coal cleaning business. By December 2008, HES had acquired or completed construction on eleven coal cleaning facilities. To successfully operate its facilities, HES must produce and market a quality fuel, addressing operational issues including feedstock availability and cost, construction and operability of equipment, successful separation of minerals including ash, sulfur, and mercury, product moisture and Btu content, overall costs of operations, as well as marketing and sales of the finished product, which is generally of smaller particle size (called fines) and which may be more difficult to sell than run-of-mine coal. This is a new business for HES, and we have experienced difficulty in receiving or extracting our full requirements of feedstock at some facilities and softness in the price of our products. Because of decreased demand for coal, we have curtailed operations at four facilities, leaving seven in operation at this time. The profitability of HES depends on the ability of HES to increase production and sales of cleaned coal. If these facilities operate at low production levels or cannot produce fuel satisfactory to customers, revenues will be materially adversely affected. Regulatory changes could reduce the demand for coal which may decrease the price for which HES can sell its clean coal product. In addition, a slowing economy may reduce demand for coal, adversely affecting our revenues. Our clean coal revenues are dependent upon the demand for coal, particularly as a fuel for the production of electricity. Increasing concerns about greenhouse gas or other air emissions, toxic materials in wastewater discharges and the hazardousness of coal combustion waste from burning coal at power generation plants could lead to federal or state regulations that encourage or require utilities to burn less or eliminate coal in the production of electricity. Such regulations could reduce the demand for coal, which would adversely affect the prices at which HES could sell its clean coal product and decrease our revenues. Coal is a commodity that can be produced and shipped worldwide. As the U.S. and worldwide economies slow, demand for coal as an energy source may decrease. In addition, some of our clean coal revenues come from the sale of metallurgical grade coal used in steel making. As economic growth slows, so will the demand for steel. Slower economic growth can therefore reduce the overall demand for coal, including metallurgical grade coal. This could reduce the prices for which we can sell clean coal, adversely affecting our revenues. HES may not qualify for tax credits under Section 45, which will adversely affect our profitability. Section 45 provides a tax credit for the production and sale of refined coal. Based on the language of Section 45, HES believes that the coal cleaning facilities are eligible for Section 45 refined coal tax credits. However, the ability to claim tax credits is dependent upon a number of conditions, including, but not limited to: • Placing facilities in service on or before December 31, 2008; • Producing a fuel from coal that is lower in NOx and either SO2 or mercury emissions by the specified amount as compared to the emissions of the feedstock; • Producing a fuel at least 50% more valuable than the feedstock; and • Sale of the fuel to a third-party for the purpose of producing steam. To date, the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) has issued very little public guidance about how this tax credit program will be administered and the restrictions on the availability of such credits. We understand that the IRS may be providing guidance in the near future, but we do not know how any such guidance will affect our ability to take tax credits. 23 Table of Contents The IRS may challenge Section 45 tax credits claimed by HES, under which we have recognized a total benefit of approximately $10.3 million through September 30, 2009, based on any one of the above or other conditions. In addition, Congress may modify or repeal Section 45 so that these tax credits may not be available in the future. If HES is not successful in claiming Section 45 credits from our coal cleaning facilities, our profitability will be materially adversely affected. If the IRS is successful in its challenges of Section 45K tax credits claimed by us, we may be subject to increased tax liabilities which will materially adversely affect our income and accounting reserves. Section 45K (formerly Section 29) of the Internal Revenue Code (“Section 45K”) provides a tax credit for the production and sale of alternative fuels from coal. The IRS is challenging by audit whether HES satisfied the requirements of Section 45K, including placed-in-service requirements, and is seeking to disallow Section 45K tax credits claimed by us. The outcome of such audits, appeals, and any tax litigation is uncertain. In the event that the IRS is ultimately successful in sustaining its challenge to tax credits claimed by us, we will have an increased tax liability which will materially adversely affect our income and accounting reserves. The IRS has recently concluded its field review of our 2005-2006 tax years and issued a Revenue Agent’s report, or RAR, on September 9, 2009, disallowing approximately $21.5 million in tax credits relating to synthetic coal facilities owned by us, which, if sustained in full, could result in payment of up to $15.1 million of additional taxes, plus any penalties and interest. We have filed a protest letter challenging the proposed adjustments contained in the RAR. However, we may not be successful in our challenge, which, as noted above, could result in a material tax liability and could adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. In addition, should the IRS prevail with respect to its assertions relating to the 2005-2006 tax years, it is also possible that Section 45K tax credits that we have claimed for our 2007-2008 tax years will also be disallowed, which could result in a payment of $4.2 million of additional taxes for the 2007-2008 tax years, plus any penalties and interest. The availability and price of corn purchased by Blue Flint Ethanol, LLC (“BFE”) can be affected by weather, disease, demand from other users of corn, government programs and other factors beyond BFE’s control. In addition, fluctuations in ethanol prices could adversely affect BFE’s ethanol revenues. The availability and price of corn, the primary feedstock for BFE’s ethanol production, is subject to wide fluctuations due to unpredictable factors such as weather, plantings, crop disease, demand for corn from other users, government farm programs and policies, changes in demand resulting from population growth, and production of similar and competitive crops. From time to time there are wide fluctuations in the pricing of ethanol and corn. Ethanol pricing tends to track corn pricing which may limit the upside price potential of ethanol. Increased demand and/or reduced supply of corn adversely affect our profitability by increasing the cost of raw materials used in BFE’s operations. The ethanol and biodiesel industry in the U.S. has grown rapidly and our success will depend on whether demand for ethanol increases proportionately or if the increased production results in excess capacity. At times, the ethanol industry produces product in excess of the market’s ability to blend, store, transport, sell and deliver ethanol-based fuels. During periods of excess supply there is downward pressure on the sales prices for ethanol to producers, which adversely affects BFE’s revenues and operating results. Environmental regulations aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions may also affect the market for ethanol-based fuel derived from corn. The EPA’s low carbon fuel standard proposal contains a new biofuel lifecycle emissions analysis that, if the proposal is finalized, could adversely impact the production of ethanol-based fuel derived from corn. In addition, California has adopted a new low carbon fuel standard with a lifecycle fuel analysis that could adversely impact the sources of ethanol in fuel distributed in California. Our new businesses, processes and technologies may not be successfully developed, operated and marketed, which could affect our future profitability. Although we have developed or acquired many new businesses, processes and technologies (e.g., ethanol, heavy oil upgrading and coal cleaning), commercialization of these businesses and technologies is in early 24 Table of Contents stages. Commercial success of these new businesses and technologies will depend on our ability to enter into agreements with customers, licensees and/or joint ventures to further develop and provide adequate funding to commercialize the new businesses and technologies, as well as to develop markets for the products and technologies. We may not be able to enter into these agreements and adequate funding may not be available to fully develop and successfully commercialize our new businesses and technologies. Further, we may not be able to profitably operate our new businesses or market our technologies or products produced from them. These processes (e.g., heavy oil upgrading) and technologies also may become less competitive and more costly as a result of increasing efforts to reduce use of fossil fuels and more stringent environmental regulation, including efforts to control greenhouse gas emissions. Our growth requires continued investment of capital. If we cannot invest additional capital into new and existing businesses, we may not be able to sustain or increase our growth. Our operations require both maintenance and growth capital. A key part of our business strategy has been to expand through complementary acquisitions, which has required significant capital. In addition, commercialization of our energy technologies, such as coal cleaning and heavy oil upgrading, has required and will require significant debt and equity commitments. In 2008 and 2009, we made significant investments in coal cleaning facilities and to secure coal feedstocks, financed with equity, debt, and other arrangements, and we expect to make additional such investments in future years, although not to the extent of prior years. We estimate that our capital expenditure needs for fiscal 2010 will be $25 million to $30 million. Our building products and CCP businesses also require significant capital expenditures. If we do not have sufficient capital to make equity investments in new projects and/or are limited by financial covenants from doing so, our growth may suffer. We are conducting business in China and other foreign countries where intellectual property and other laws, as well as business conditions, may leave our intellectual property, products and technologies vulnerable to duplication by competitors and create uncertainties as to our legal rights against such competitors’ actions. We have and expect to continue to license or otherwise make our technology, including our nanotechnology, heavy oil upgrading and coal liquefaction technology, available to entities in China and other foreign countries. There is a risk that foreign intellectual property laws will not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as under United States laws, leaving us vulnerable to competitors who may attempt to copy our products, processes or technologies. Further, the legal system of China is based on statutory law. Under this system, prior court decisions may be cited as persuasive authority but do not have binding precedential effect. Since 1979, the Chinese government has been developing a comprehensive system of commercial laws and considerable progress has been made in the promulgation of laws and regulations dealing with economic matters, such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. As these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively new and because of the limited volume of published case law and judicial interpretations and the non-binding nature of prior court decisions, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws, regulations and legal requirements involve some uncertainty. These uncertainties could limit the legal protection or recourse available to us. In addition, dependence on foreign licenses and conducting foreign operations may subject us to increased risk from political change, ownership issues or repatriation or currency exchange concerns. We could face potential product liability claims relating to products we manufacture. Our historical product liability claims have not been material and while management is not aware of any material product liability issues, we do face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of any of our products results in personal injury or property damage. For example, if the EPA decides to designate coal ash as a hazardous waste, we may face an increase in claims related to products which incorporate this material. In the event that any of our products proves to be defective, among other things, we may be responsible for damages related to any defective products and we may be required to recall or redesign such products. Because of the long useful life of our products, it is possible that latent defects might not 25 Table of Contents appear for several years. Any insurance we maintain may not continue to be available on terms acceptable to us or such coverage may not be adequate for liabilities actually incurred. Further, any claim or product recall could result in adverse publicity against us, which could cause our sales to decline or increase our costs. Insurance for such product liability claims could become much more expensive or more difficult to obtain. Inappropriate use of CCPs can result in faulty end products. In some cases, the products marketed by HRI consist of a mixture of client-supplied materials, including CCPs. HRI does not in all cases control the quality of the final end product, but may share such control with the manufacturer of the ingredient materials. Therefore, there is a risk of liability regarding the quality of the materials and end products marketed by HRI. In cases where HRI is responsible for end-product quality, such as a structural fill (where material is used to fill a cavity or designated area), HRI depends solely on its own quality assurance program. Significant increases in energy and transportation costs that cannot be passed on to customers could have a significant adverse effect on operating income. We purchase a significant amount of energy from various sources to conduct our operations, including fossil fuels and electricity for production of building products and diesel fuel for distribution of our products and for production-related vehicles. In addition, fuel cost increases have increased truck and rail carrier transportation costs for our products. Fuel cost increases have in the past and may in the future adversely affect the results of our operations and our financial condition. Prices and availability of all petroleum products are subject to political, economic and market factors that are generally outside of our control. We may not realize the anticipated cost savings related to the cost reduction initiatives we have implemented. We have specific initiatives under way to reduce our cost structure across all of our business segments. Our ability to successfully realize cost savings and the timing of any realization may be affected by a variety of factors including, without limitation, our ability to reduce headcount, reduce expenditures, improve our manufacturing capacity and processes and otherwise execute our plan and retain personnel necessary to execute our plan. We may not achieve the currently anticipated cost savings, and we may not achieve the cost savings within the timeframe we currently expect. We operate in industries subject to significant environmental regulation, and compliance with and changes in regulation could add significantly to the costs of conducting business. The coal-based operations of HES and the CCP operations of HRI and their respective customers and licensees, together with projects such as the ethanol plant and the operations of a hydrogen peroxide plant in Korea, are subject to federal, state, local and international environmental regulations that impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the air and water and establish standards for the treatment, storage and disposal of waste products, and impose liability for the costs of remediating contaminated sites, which add to the costs of doing business and expose us to potential fines for non-compliance. If the costs of environmental compliance increase for any reason, we may not be able to pass on these costs to customers. In order to establish and operate the alternative fuel plants, coal cleaning plants, power plants and operations to collect and transport CCPs, we and our customers have obtained various state and local permits and must comply with processes and procedures that have been approved by regulatory authorities. These environmental requirements and any failure to comply could give rise to environmental liabilities and to substantial fines and penalties. Certain HBP manufacturing operations are also subject to environmental regulations and permit requirements. If HBP and its subsidiaries and affiliates cannot obtain or maintain required environmental permits for their existing and planned manufacturing facilities in a timely manner or at all, they may be subject to additional costs and/or fines. The ethanol industry sector manufactures ethanol, principally from industrial corn. Ethanol production facilities can emit volatile organic compounds and carbon monoxide into the air. Our ethanol production facility 26 Table of Contents located at the GRE Coal Creek pulverized coal electric power station near Underwood, North Dakota, is subject to air pollution permitting and emission control regulatory requirements, and has obtained all required permits. However, if this facility cannot maintain compliance with environmental regulations, it may be subject to additional costs and/or fines. HTI’s ordinary course of business requires using its facilities to perform research and development activities involving coal, oil, chemicals and energy technologies, including liquefaction of coal. As a result, petroleum and other regulated materials have been and are present in and on HTI’s properties. Regulatory noncompliance or accidental discharges, fires, or explosions, in spite of safeguards, could create environmental or safety liabilities. Therefore, our operations entail risk of environmental damage and injury to people, and we could incur liabilities in the future arising from the discharge of pollutants into the environment, waste disposal practices, or accidents, as well as changes in enforcement policies or newly discovered conditions. We are involved in litigation and claims for which we incur significant costs and are exposed to significant liability. We are a party to some significant legal proceedings and are subject to potential claims regarding operation of our business. These proceedings will require that we incur substantial costs, including attorneys’ fees, managerial time and other personnel resources and costs in pursuing resolution, and adverse resolution of these proceedings could result in our payment of damages, materially adversely affect our income and reserves and damage our reputation. With respect to the cases referred to in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements, the amount of damages described below is being sought by the counter parties. To date, we have reserved $1.0 million in the aggregate for potential damages in these matters. Boynton. In October 1998, Headwaters entered into a technology purchase agreement with James G. Davidson and Adtech, Inc. The transaction transferred certain patent and royalty rights to Headwaters related to a synthetic fuel technology invented by Davidson. In June 2002, Headwaters received a summons and complaint from the United States District Court for the Western District of Tennessee filed by former stockholders of Adtech alleging, among other things, fraud, conspiracy, constructive trust, conversion, patent infringement and interference with contract arising out of the 1998 technology purchase agreement entered into between Davidson and Adtech on the one hand, and Headwaters on the other. All claims against Headwaters were dismissed in pretrial proceedings except claims of conspiracy and constructive trust. The District Court certified a class comprised of substantially all purported stockholders of Adtech, Inc. At trial, the plaintiffs sought compensatory damages from Headwaters in the approximate amount of $43.0 million plus prejudgment interest and punitive damages. On June 22, 2009, a jury reached a verdict in a trial in the amount of $8.7 million for eight named plaintiffs representing a portion of the class members. The jury also reached a verdict on certain legal liability issues and an advisory verdict on damages of $12.7 million on behalf of the balance of the class members. Fact discovery has begun with respect to unnamed class members. We expect that there will be further trial court proceedings to resolve an equitable claim as to all members of the class and the remaining legal issues as to the unnamed class members. It is not expected that a final judgment will be entered by the trial court until all issues are concluded following such further trial court proceedings which have not yet been scheduled. Once final judgment is entered, the parties may seek relief from judgment by motion to the trial court and by appeal from the final judgment. Because the resolution of the litigation is uncertain, legal counsel and management cannot express an opinion as to the ultimate amount, if any, of Headwaters’ liability. Ecologica Carmelo. Headwaters Resources, Inc. (“HRI”), a subsidiary through which Headwaters conducts its CCP business, entered into a fly ash supply agreement with Ecologica Carmelo, Inc. (Carmelo) in February 2002 to supply fly ash to Carmelo for sale and use in the Caribbean basin region. The agreement guarantees first availability of fly ash to Carmelo from specific power generating plants and Carmelo agreed to purchase exclusively from HRI and to purchase a minimum tonnage of fly ash annually. In April 2008, HRI filed an arbitration demand against Carmelo in Atlanta, Georgia, alleging that Carmelo breached the fly ash supply agreement by failing to purchase the minimum annual volume of fly ash it was obligated to 27 Table of Contents purchase under that agreement and for violation of Carmelo’s obligation to exclusively purchase fly ash from HRI. HRI is seeking approximately $3.9 million for lost profits on minimum fly ash purchases, plus other direct, incidental, and consequential damages relating to Carmelo’s failure to purchase from HRI exclusively. In June 2008, Carmelo filed its response to HRI’s arbitration demand. Carmelo denied that it breached the fly ash supply agreement, alleged that it properly terminated the agreement, and filed a counterclaim against HRI. Carmelo has alleged that HRI failed to secure a cost-effective source of fly ash for Carmelo in violation of the fly ash supply agreement. Carmelo has asserted claims for breach of contract, breach of Puerto Rico Law No. 75, and breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing. Carmelo is seeking damages of at least $12.3 million which allegedly represents the lost value of its investment in a facility designed for the intake and storage of fly ash from HRI. HRI and Carmelo are attempting to reach a negotiated resolution of the matter. Because the resolution of the action is uncertain, legal counsel and management cannot express an opinion concerning the likely outcome of this matter or the liability of HRI, if any. Mainland Laboratory. HRI entered into a license agreement for the use of a fly ash carbon treatment technology with Mainland Laboratory, LTD (Mainland) in April 2000. The agreement grants exclusive rights to the patented carbon treatment technology owned by Mainland. In 2006, HRI became aware of prior art relating to the Mainland patented technology which Headwaters believed invalidated the Mainland patent and HRI stopped paying royalties under the agreement. In September 2007, Mainland filed suit against HRI in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas with a demand for arbitration under the terms of the license agreement, for breach of contract and patent infringement. Mainland is seeking approximately $23.0 million in damages, enhancement of any damages award based on alleged willful infringement of its patent, and recovery of its costs associated with the litigation, including its attorneys’ fees. Additionally, Mainland is seeking an injunction to stop HRI from practicing the technology covered by the patent. The District Court has ruled that Mainland’s patent is invalid and remanded the case to arbitration for further proceedings. Because the resolution of remaining claims in arbitration is uncertain, legal counsel and management cannot express an opinion concerning the likely outcome of this matter or the liability of HRI, if any. Coalco Corporation. Beginning in 1996, Headwaters entered into a series of agreements with Coalco Corporation by which Coalco would assist Headwaters in identifying financing sources for synthetic fuel manufacturing projects. Under these agreements, Headwaters agreed to pay certain fees to Coalco. Beginning in 1997, Pelletco Company, an affiliate of Coalco, entered into license agreements for the use of Headwaters’ synthetic fuel technology for which Pelletco agreed to pay certain license fees to Headwaters. As of December 31, 2008, trade receivables include $3.8 million which is due from Pelletco to Headwaters. The synthetic fuel businesses underlying all of these agreements ended during fiscal 2008. In January 2009, Coalco filed a complaint in state court which was removed to the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts, alleging that Headwaters breached its agreements to pay certain fees to Coalco. Coalco seeks damages in the principal amount plus interest totaling approximately $27.4 million, plus attorneys’ fees, and other costs. Pelletco joined the complaint with Coalco, both seeking declaratory judgment as to their rights and obligations under the various agreements. Headwaters filed an answer denying the allegations of the complaint. Headwaters also filed a counterclaim against the plaintiffs and their principals claiming breach of contract and related claims for failure to pay the $3.8 million due from Pelletco to Headwaters. The parties have filed cross-motions for summary judgment which could be resolved in December 2009. Trial is scheduled to begin in March 2010. Because the resolution of the litigation is uncertain, legal counsel and management cannot express an opinion as to the ultimate amount, if any, of Headwaters’ liability. Although the merits of Coalco and Pelletco’s claims against Headwaters will be determined in due legal course, management currently believes that the $3.8 million owed to Headwaters from Pelletco is due and collectible. J. Hall Inc. In June 2009, J. Hall, Inc. (Hall) and RC Trucking, Inc. (RC) filed a complaint against Covol Fuels No. 3, LLC (“Covol”) (a subsidiary of Headwaters), Yukon Coal Company, LLC, Suburban 28 Table of Contents Coal Sales, LLC, and Century Coal, LLC (collectively, Yukon) in Bell County Circuit Court in the Commonwealth of Kentucky. The complaint alleges that Hall and RC obtained or brokered coal on behalf of Yukon which was then sold by Yukon to Covol. Allegedly, Yukon never paid Hall and RC for the coal. Hall and RC named Covol as a party to the suit claiming that Covol is an alter ego of Yukon and that Covol and Yukon are engaged in a joint venture or partnership in the operation of Covol’s coal cleaning facility located near Beverly, Kentucky. Hall and RC have asserted claims against Covol for breach of contract, unjust enrichment, and right of offset against Covol for monies owed by Hall and RC to Covol. Hall and RC are seeking damages of $0.7 million. Covol filed counterclaims against Hall and RC for breach of contract, or in the alternative, unjust enrichment for plaintiffs’ failure to pay for coal sold by Covol to Hall and RC in separate transactions. Covol seeks damages against Hall in the amount of $0.6 million. Covol also seeks monetary damages against RC for amounts less than $0.1 million. Although the merits of Hall’s and RC’s claims against Covol will be determined in due legal course, management currently believes that the $0.6 million owed to Covol from Hall and RC is due and collectible. Fentress Families Trust. VFL Technology Corporation (VFL), acquired by HRI in 2004, provides services related to fly ash disposal to Virginia Electric and Power Company. Approximately 395 plaintiffs, most of whom are homeowners living in the City of Chesapeake, Virginia, filed a complaint in March 2009 in the State of Virginia Chesapeake Circuit Court against 16 named defendants, including Virginia Electric and Power Company, certain persons associated with the Battlefield Golf Course, including the owner, developer, and contractors, and others, including VFL and Headwaters. The complaint alleges that fly ash used to construct the golf course has contaminated area ground water exposing plaintiffs to toxic chemicals and causing property damage. The complaint alleges multiple causes of action and seeks a new water system, monitoring costs, site clean-up, and other damages totaling approximately $1.8 billion, including certain injunctive relief. A second lawsuit was filed in August 2009 and has been consolidated with the first action where approximately 62 plaintiffs have sued essentially the same defendants, alleging similar claims and requests for damages, in excess of $1.5 billion. The consolidated case is at an early stage of investigation and pleadings by the parties. Because resolution of the litigation is uncertain, legal counsel and management cannot express an opinion as to the ultimate amount, if any, of Headwaters’ liability. Redbird Mountain Coal Company. In December 2008, Covol Fuels No. 3, LLC, one of our subsidiaries, and Yukon Coal Company, LLC, an affiliate of Redbird Mountain Coal Company, LLC, entered into an Amended and Restated Coal Purchase and Refuse Recovery Agreement (“Amended Purchase Agreement”), pursuant to which Covol spent in excess of $25.0 million to construct an on-site coal processing facility on land leased to Redbird by Asher Land and Mineral, LLP. Following a bankruptcy filing by Redbird in June 2009 in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Eastern District of Kentucky, Redbird marketed the sale of its lease to the land that includes the on-site coal processing facility, claiming the leasehold interest included the coal processing facility. In July 2009, Covol filed an adversary proceeding before the bankruptcy court seeking declaratory judgment that it has exclusive ownership of the on-site coal processing facility, and in the alternative a claim for unjust enrichment against Redbird and Asher. Asher subsequently filed a counterclaim seeking a declaration that Covol has no right or interest in the coal processing facility or that Asher has a perfected security interest. Redbird filed a motion with the bankruptcy court seeking to reject the Amended Purchase Agreement. Trial is scheduled to begin in January 2010. Because resolution of the litigation is uncertain, legal counsel and management cannot express an opinion as to the ultimate amount, if any, of Headwaters’ liability. Archstone. Archstone owns an apartment complex in Westbury, New York. Archstone alleges that moisture penetrated the building envelope and damaged moisture sensitive parts of the buildings which began to rot and grow mold. In 2008, Archstone evicted its tenants and began repairing the twenty-one apartment buildings. In January 2008, Archstone filed a complaint in the Nassau County Supreme Court of the State of New York against the prime contractor and its performance bond surety, the designer, and Eldorado Stone, LLC which supplied architectural stone that was installed by others during construction. The prime contractor then sued over a dozen subcontractors who in turn sued others. Archstone claims as damages approximately $36.0 million in repair costs, $15.0 million in lost lease payments, prejudgment 29 Table of Contents interest, and an unknown amount for liabilities to tenants who have sued Archstone. Eldorado Stone answered denying liability and tendered the matter to its insurers who are paying for the defense of the case. Because the resolution of the action is uncertain, legal counsel and management cannot express an opinion concerning the likely outcome of this matter, the liability of Eldorado Stone, if any, or the insurers’ obligation to indemnify Eldorado Stone against loss, if any. Headwaters Building Products Matters. There are litigation and pending and threatened claims made against certain subsidiaries of Headwaters Building Products (“HBP”), a division within our light building products segment, with respect to several types of exterior finish systems manufactured and sold by its subsidiaries for application by contractors on residential and commercial buildings. Typically, litigation and these claims are defended by such subsidiaries’ insurance carriers. The plaintiffs or claimants in these matters have alleged that the structures have suffered damage from latent or progressive water penetration due to some alleged failure of the building product or wall system. Some claims involve alleged defects associated with components of an Exterior Insulating and Finish System (“EIFS”) which was produced for a limited time (through 1997) by the HBP subsidiaries. There is a 10-year projected claim period following discontinuation of the product. Other claims involve alleged liabilities associated with certain stucco and architectural stone products which are produced and sold by certain subsidiaries of HBP. Typically, the claims cite damages for alleged personal injuries and punitive damages for alleged unfair business practices in addition to asserting more conventional damage claims for alleged economic loss and damage to property. To date, claims made against such subsidiaries have been paid by their insurers, with the exception of minor deductibles or self-insured retentions, although such insurance carriers typically have issued “reservation of rights” letters. While, to date, none of these proceedings have required that HBP incur substantial costs, there is no guarantee of insurance coverage or continuing coverage. These and future proceedings may result in substantial costs to HBP, including attorneys’ fees, managerial time and other personnel resources and costs. Adverse resolution of these proceedings could have a materially negative effect on HBP’s business, financial condition, and results of operation, and its ability to meet its financial obligations. Although HBP carries general and product liability insurance, HBP cannot assure that such insurance coverage will remain available, that HBP’s insurance carrier will remain viable, or that the insured amounts will cover all future claims in excess of HBP’s uninsured retention. Future rate increases may also make such insurance uneconomical for HBP to maintain. In addition, the insurance policies maintained by HBP exclude claims for damages resulting from exterior insulating finish systems, or EIFS, that have manifested after March 2003. Because resolution of the litigation and claims is uncertain, legal counsel and management cannot express an opinion as to the ultimate amount, if any, of HBP’s liability. Other. We have ongoing litigation and claims incurred during the normal course of business, including the items referred to above. We intend to vigorously defend and/or pursue our rights in these actions. We do not currently believe that the outcome of these actions will have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows or financial position; however, it is possible that a change in the estimates of probable liability could occur, and the change could be significant. We have significant competition in our industries which may cause demand for our products and services to decrease. We experience significant competition in all of our segments and geographic regions. A failure to compete effectively or increased competition could lead to price cuts, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, which could decrease our profitability. Many of our competitors have greater financial, management and other resources than we have and may be able to take advantage of acquisitions and other opportunities more readily. In certain instances we must compete on the basis of superior products and services rather than price, thereby increasing the costs of marketing our services to remain competitive. See “Business,” for more information on the competition faced by us in each of our segments. 30 Table of Contents Our business strategy to diversify and grow through acquisitions may result in integration costs and poor performance. An important aspect of our business strategy in the past has been diversification and growth through acquisitions of products or complementary businesses. While our October 2009 asset based revolving loan agreement (“ABL Revolver”) and our October 2009 11-3/8% senior secured notes (“Senior Notes”) will limit our ability to engage in acquisitions, to the extent we engage in acquisitions, our ability to successfully implement the transactions is subject to a number of risks, including difficulties in identifying acceptable acquisition candidates, consummating acquisitions on favorable terms and obtaining adequate financing, which may adversely affect our ability to develop new products and services and to compete in our markets. If we do not successfully integrate newly acquired businesses with our existing businesses, we may not realize the expected benefits of the acquisitions, and the resources and attention required for successful integration may interrupt the business activities of acquired businesses and our existing businesses. Successful management and integration of acquisitions are subject to a number of risks, including difficulties in assimilating acquired operations, loss of key employees, diversion of management’s attention from core business operations, assumption of contingent liabilities, incurrence of potentially significant write-offs, and various employee issues, such as issues related to human resource benefit plans, and an increase in employment and discrimination claims and claims for workers’ compensation. Each business acquisition also requires us to expand our operational and financial systems, which increases the complexity of our information technology systems. Implementation of controls, systems and procedures may be costly and time-consuming and may not be effective. If our internal controls over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act are not adequate, our reputation could be harmed and we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal penalties or stockholder litigation. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”) requires that we evaluate and report on our system of internal controls. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal penalties or stockholder litigation. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports could harm our business. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act also requires that our independent auditors report on our system of internal controls. We have documented and tested our system of internal controls to provide the basis for our reports in our relevant filings with the SEC. The growth and diversification of our business through acquisitions complicates the process of developing, documenting, maintaining and testing internal controls. No assurance can be given that in the future there may not be significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that would be required to be reported. Unauthorized use of or infringement claims regarding our proprietary intellectual property could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. We rely primarily on a combination of trade secrets, patents, copyright and trademark laws and confidentiality procedures to protect our intellectual property. Despite these precautions, unauthorized third parties may misappropriate, infringe upon, copy or reverse engineer portions of our technology or products. We do not know if current or future patent applications will be issued with the scope of the claims sought, if at all, or whether any patents issued will be challenged or invalidated. Our business could be harmed if we infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. We have been, and may be in the future, notified that we may be infringing intellectual property rights possessed by third parties. If any such claims are asserted against us, we may seek to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements. There is a risk in these situations that no license will be available or that a license will not be available on reasonable terms, precluding our use of the applicable technology. Alternatively, we may decide to litigate such claims or attempt to design around the patented technology. To date, while no single patent or trademark is material to our business and the issues described in this paragraph have not resulted in significant cost or had an adverse impact on our business, future actions could be costly and would divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. 31 Table of Contents We are dependent on certain key personnel, the loss of whom could materially affect our financial performance and prospects. Our continued success depends to a large extent upon the continued services of our senior management and certain key employees. Each member of our senior management team has substantial experience and expertise in our industry and has made significant contributions to our growth and success. We do face the risk, however, that members of our senior management may not continue in their current positions and the loss of the services of any of these individuals could cause us to lose customers and reduce our net sales, lead to employee morale problems and/or the loss of key employees, or cause disruptions to our production. Also, we may be unable to find qualified individuals to replace any of the senior executive officers who leave our company. Fluctuations in the value of currency may negatively affect our revenue and earnings. Doing business internationally exposes us to risks related to the value of one currency compared to another. For example, some of our revenues are generated by sales of goods produced in the U.S. to buyers in foreign countries, and we have a joint venture with a plant located in South Korea. If the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to the currency of foreign purchasers, the relative cost of our goods to such purchasers may go up, and the demand for our products may decrease, reducing our revenues. Also, in cases where our debt or other obligations are in currencies different than the currency in which we earn revenue, we may lose money as a result of fluctuations in the exchange rates, decreasing our earnings. Risks Related to our Common Stock The price of our common stock historically has been volatile. This volatility may affect the price at which you could sell your common stock, and the sale of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect the price of our common stock. The market price for our common stock has varied between a high of $10.75 in November 2008 and a low of $1.22 in March 2009 in the twelve month period ended October 31, 2009. This volatility may affect the price at which you could sell your common stock, and the sale of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our stock price is likely to continue to be volatile and subject to significant price and volume fluctuations in response to market and other factors, including the other factors discussed in “Risks Relating to Our Business;” variations in our quarterly operating results from our expectations or those of securities analysts or investors; downward revisions in securities analysts’ estimates; and announcement by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of their stock, many companies have been the subject of securities class action litigation. If we became involved in securities class action litigation in the future, it could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management’s attention and resources and could harm our stock price, business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the broader stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations in recent months and years. This volatility has affected the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance and may adversely affect the price of our common stock. In addition, our announcements of our quarterly operating results, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets and other developments affecting us, our affiliates or our competitors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, the sale of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely impact our stock price. As of September 30, 2009, we had outstanding approximately 60.2 million shares of our common stock and options to purchase approximately 1.8 million shares of our common stock (of which approximately 1.8 million were exercisable as of that date). We also had outstanding approximately 1.9 million stock appreciation rights as of September 30, 2009, of which approximately 1.0 million were exercisable. The sale or the availability for sale of a large number of shares of our common stock in the public market could cause the price of our common stock to decline. 32 Table of Contents We have never paid dividends and do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the future, so any short-term return on your investment will depend on the market price of our capital stock. We currently intend to retain any earnings to finance our operations and growth. The terms and conditions of our senior secured credit facility restrict and limit payments or distributions in respect of our capital stock. Delaware law and our charter documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could cause the market price of our shares to decline. We are a Delaware corporation, and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our board of directors has the power, without stockholder approval, to designate the terms of one or more series of preferred stock and issue shares of preferred stock, including the adoption of a “poison pill,” which could be used defensively if a takeover is threatened. The ability of our board of directors to create and issue a new series of preferred stock and certain provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the market price of our common stock. Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to obtain financing in the future and to react to changes in our business. We have a substantial amount of debt, which requires significant principal and interest payments. As of October 31, 2009, we have approximately $524.8 million face value of debt outstanding, including $328.3 million outstanding principal amount under the Senior Notes issued by us in October 2009 and $196.5 million outstanding principal amount of our convertible subordinated notes. We also expect to have $70.0 million of undrawn availability, subject to a borrowing base limitation, under the ABL Revolver entered into in October 2009. Our significant amount of debt could have important consequences. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under the notes and the ABL Revolver; • increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and general industry conditions, including interest rate fluctuations, because a portion of our borrowings, including those under the ABL Revolver, are and will continue to be at variable rates of interest; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; • place us at a disadvantage compared to competitors that may have proportionately less debt; • limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing due to applicable financial and restrictive covenants in our debt agreements; and • increase our cost of borrowing. Despite our current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may still incur significant additional indebtedness. Incurring more indebtedness could increase the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness, including additional secured indebtedness, in the future. The terms of the Senior Notes indenture and our ABL Revolver will restrict, 33 Table of Contents but will not completely prohibit, us from doing so. We have $70.0 million of undrawn availability under the ABL Revolver, subject to borrowing base limitations. In addition, the indenture will allow us to issue additional senior secured notes under certain circumstances which will also be guaranteed by our subsidiary guarantors. If new debt or other liabilities are added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we and our subsidiaries now face could intensify. If we default under the ABL Revolver, Senior Notes or other indebtedness, we may not be able to service our debt obligations. In the event of a default under the ABL Revolver, Senior Notes or other indebtedness, lenders could elect to declare amounts borrowed, together with accrued and unpaid interest and other fees, to be due and payable. If such acceleration occurs, thereby permitting an acceleration of amounts outstanding under other debt obligations, we may not be able to repay the amounts due. Events of default are separately defined in each loan agreement or indenture, but include events such as failure to make payments when due, breach of covenants, default under certain other indebtedness, failure to satisfy judgments, certain insolvency events and, in the case of the ABL Revolver, the occurrence of a material adverse effect. The occurrence of an event of default could have serious consequences to our financial condition and results of operations, and could cause us to become bankrupt or insolvent. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We will also be required to obtain the consent of the lenders under the ABL Revolver to refinance material portions of our indebtedness. We cannot assure you that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, including our notes. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. If our operating results and available cash are insufficient to meet our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them, and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. Additionally, our debt agreements limit the use of the proceeds from any disposition; as a result, we may not be allowed, under these documents, to use proceeds from such dispositions to satisfy all current debt service obligations. We are a holding company with no independent operations or assets. Repayment of our indebtedness is dependent on cash flow generated by our subsidiaries. Headwaters Incorporated is a holding company and repayment of our indebtedness will be dependent upon cash flow generated by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. Unless they are guarantors of the Senior Notes, our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to pay amounts due on the notes or to make funds available for that purpose. Our subsidiaries may not be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. For instance, if there is a default under the ABL Revolver, the ABL Borrowers will not be permitted to transfer funds to us to pay our notes. Each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. While the indenture governing the Senior Notes limits the ability of our subsidiaries to restrict the payment of dividends or make 34 Table of Contents other intercompany payments to us, these limitations are subject to certain qualifications and exceptions. In the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, including our notes. The indenture governing the Senior Notes and the credit agreement governing the ABL Revolver impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities. The credit agreement governing the ABL Revolver and the indenture governing the Senior Notes impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability, among other things, to: • incur additional indebtedness or issue certain disqualified stock and preferred stock; • pay dividends or certain other distributions on our capital stock or repurchase our capital stock; • make certain investments or other restricted payments; • place restrictions on the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments to us; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • sell certain assets or merge with or into other companies; • guarantee indebtedness; and • create liens. When (and for as long as) the availability under the ABL Revolver is less than a specified amount for a certain period of time, funds deposited into deposit accounts used for collections will be transferred on a daily basis into a blocked account with the administrative agent and applied to prepay loans under the ABL Revolver. As a result of these covenants and restrictions, we will be limited in how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. The terms of any future indebtedness we may incur could include more restrictive covenants. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain compliance with these covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants. There are limitations on our ability to incur the full $70.0 million of commitments under the ABL Revolver. Borrowings under our ABL Revolver will be limited by a specified borrowing base consisting of a percentage of eligible accounts receivable and inventory, less customary reserves. In addition, under the ABL Revolver, a monthly fixed charge maintenance covenant would become applicable if excess availability under the ABL Revolver is at any time less than a specified percentage not to exceed 50% of the total revolving loan commitments. If the covenant trigger were to occur, the ABL Borrowers would be required to satisfy and maintain on the last day of each month a fixed charge coverage ratio of at least (i) 1.0x for the last twelve-month period for each month ending on or prior to December 31, 2010 and (ii) 1.1x for the last twelve-month period for each month ending after December 31, 2010. Our ability to meet the required fixed charge coverage ratio can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet this ratio. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the ABL Revolver. Moreover, the ABL Revolver provides the lenders considerable discretion to impose reserves, which could materially impair the amount of borrowings that would otherwise be available to us. There can be no assurance that the lenders under the ABL Revolver will not impose such actions during the term of the ABL Revolver and further, were they to do so, the resulting impact of this action could materially and adversely impair our ability to make interest payments on our notes. 35 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 