Risk Factors General Business Risks Relating to Our Business and Market Conditions and changes in the local and global economic environments may adversely affect our business and financial results. Adverse economic conditions in markets in which we operate can harm our business. Current global financial conditions have been characterized by increased volatility and several financial institutions have either gone into bankruptcy or have had to be rescued by governmental authorities. These current economic factors include diminished liquidity and tighter credit conditions, leading to decreased credit availability, as well as declines in economic growth and employment levels. It is commonly believed that the current recession will continue and perhaps even further deteriorate. Partly as a result, entire industries are facing extreme contraction and even the prospect of collapse. The credit crisis could have a number of follow-on effects on our business, including a possible: (i) slow-down in our business, resulting from lower customer expenditure, inability of customers to pay for products and services, insolvency of customers or insolvency of key partners, (ii) negative impact on our liquidity, financial condition and share price, which may impact our ability to raise capital in the market, obtain financing and other sources of funding in the future on terms favorable to us, and (iii) decrease in asset values that are deemed to be other than temporary, which may result in impairment losses. If such increased levels of volatility and market turmoil continue, it may materially adversely affect our results of operations and may increase the difficulty for us to accurately forecast and plan future business. Unfavorable economic and market conditions and reduced information technology spending may lead to a decreased demand for our products and services and may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to the effects of general global economic and market conditions. Recent events in the financial market may have an impact on our enterprise business and we may experience a slowdown in our business. To the extent that our business suffers as a result of such unfavorable economic and market conditions, our operating results may be materially adversely affected. In particular, enterprises may reduce spending in connection with their contact centers. Financial institutions may also reduce spending in relation to trading floors and operational risk management. IT-related capital expenditures are typically cyclical in nature, with generally higher budgets in times of improving economic conditions and lower budgets in times of economic slowdowns. In addition, our clients may, due to imminent regulatory or operational deadlines or objectives or for other reasons, prioritize other expenditures over the solutions that we offer. Customer purchase decisions may be significantly affected by a variety of factors, including trends in spending for information technology and enterprise software, market competition, capital expenditure prioritization, budgeting and the viability or announcement of alternative technologies. Furthermore, even when information technology is a priority, prospective customers that made significant investments in internally developed solutions or in point solutions could incur significant costs in switching to third-party enterprise-wide products such as ours. The continuation and deterioration of the current economic conditions may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 3 Operating globally exposes us to additional and unpredictable risks. We sell our products and solutions throughout the world and intend to continue to increase our penetration of international markets. In 2006, 2007 and 2008, approximately 99% of our total sales were derived from sales to customers outside of Israel. A number of risks are inherent in international transactions. Our future results could be materially adversely affected by a variety of factors including changes in exchange rates, general economic conditions, regulatory requirements, tax structures or changes in tax laws or practices, and longer payment cycles in the countries in our geographic areas of operations. International sales and operations may be limited or disrupted by the imposition of governmental controls and regulations, export license requirements, political instability, trade restrictions, changes in tariffs and difficulties in managing international operations. We cannot assure you that one or more of these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our international operations and, consequently, on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and we may be unable to compete successfully. The market for our products, solutions and related services, in general, is highly competitive. Additionally, some of our principal competitors, such as Verint Systems, Inc., may have greater resources and larger customer bases than we do. We have seen evidence of price reductions by some of our competitors and expect to continue to see such behavior in the future, which, if we are required to match such discounting, will adversely affect our gross margins and results of operations. To date, we have been able to manage our product design and component costs. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to achieve reductions in component and product design costs. Further, the relative and varying rates of increases or decreases in product price and cost could have a material adverse impact on our earnings. We are expanding the scope of our Voice Platforms and Applications to Enterprise Performance Management solutions, with a focus on analytic software solutions that are based on voice and data content analysis, including data based on transactions. The market for such content analysis applications is constantly gaining momentum. Successful positioning of our products is a critical factor in our ability to maintain growth. Furthermore, new potential entrants from the traditional enterprise business intelligence and business analytics sector may decide to develop recording and content analysis capabilities and compete with us in this emerging opportunity. As a result, we expect to continue to make significant expenditures on marketing. We cannot ensure that the market awareness or demand for our new products will grow as rapidly as we expect, or if at all, that we will successfully develop new products or introduce new applications for existing products, that such new products and applications will achieve market acceptance or that the introduction of new products or technological developments by others will not adversely impact the demand for our products. The operational risk management market has emerged only in recent years and is highly competitive and fragmented. Our software solutions in this field compete with software developed internally by potential clients as well as software and other solutions offered by competitors. 4 With respect to the market for digital video products and applications (or Video Platforms and Applications), our Video Platforms and Applications are utilized by entities in the closed circuit television, or CCTV, security, gaming and retail industries to capture, store and analyze digital video and related data. The market for our Video Platforms and Applications is highly competitive and includes products offering a broad range of features and capacities. We compete with a number of large, established manufacturers of video recording systems and distributors of similar products, as well as new emerging competitors. The price per channel of digital recording systems has decreased throughout the market in recent years, primarily due to competitive pressures. We cannot assure you that the price per channel of digital recording systems will not continue to decrease or that our gross profit will not decrease as a result. Moreover, our penetration into this market may not experience the same growth rate as the entire company’s growth rate, which might have a material adverse effect on our earnings. With respect to the public safety part of our business, our ability to succeed depends on our ability to develop an effective network of distributors to the mid-low segment of the public safety market, while facing pricing pressures and low barriers to entry. We face significant competition from other well-established competitors, including CVDS Inc., VoicePrint Inc. and others. Prices have decreased throughout the market in recent years, primarily due to competitive pressures. We cannot assure you that prices will not continue to decrease or that our gross profit will not decrease as a result. We believe that our ability to sell and distribute our Voice Platforms and Applications in the public safety market depends on the success of our marketing, distribution and product development initiatives. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in these initiatives. The Voice-over-Internet-Protocol (or VoIP) contact center and trading market is highly competitive and we may be unable to compete successfully. The recent expansion of VoIP into contact centers and trading floors may allow one or more of our competitors to take a leadership position with respect to this technology. Strategic partners may change their vendor preference as a result or may develop embedded VoIP recording as part of the VoIP switch or networking infrastructure. Successful marketing of our products and services to our customers and partners will be critical to our ability to maintain growth. We cannot assure you that our products or existing partnerships will permit us to compete successfully. Risks associated with our distribution channels and key strategic partners may materially adversely affect our financial results. We have agreements in place with many distributors, dealers and resellers to market and sell our products and services in addition to our direct sales force. We derive a significant percentage of our revenues from one of our distributor channels and new channels may, in the future, account for a significant percentage of our revenues. Our financial results could be materially adversely affected if our contracts with distribution channels or our other partners were terminated, if our relationship with our distribution channels or our other partners were to deteriorate or if the financial condition of our distribution channels or our other partners were to weaken. Moreover, our current distribution channels or our strategic partners may decide to enter into our markets in competition with us, which will likely result in the termination of our relationship and may lead to a significant reduction in sales through related channels. A portion of our strategic partners are suppliers of telecommunication infrastructure equipment. If our competitors are able to penetrate our strategic relationships or if our strategic partners decide to end the relationship and expand its product offering to compete with us, this may result in a significant reduction of sales made by that strategic partner as well as to customers who use that partner’s infrastructure or work in its environment, which is broader than that partner’s direct business with us. 5 This is particularly relevant to our relationship with Avaya, one of the leading global providers of enterprise business communication platforms in voice, e-business and data. Avaya, our largest global distribution channel, accounted for approximately 16%, 13% and 13% of our revenues in 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively. If Avaya enters into a strategic relationship with our competitors or decides to otherwise end the relationship and expand its product offering to compete with us, this may result in a significant reduction of sales made through Avaya, as well as to customers who use Avaya’s infrastructure or work in its environment, which is broader than Avaya’s direct business with us, as stated above. As our market opportunities change, our reliance on particular distribution channels or strategic partners may increase, which may negatively impact our gross margins. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in maintaining or expanding these channels or partnerships. If we are not successful, we may lose sales opportunities, customers and market share. In addition, some of our distribution channels or our strategic partners have developed and marketed IP-based products, software applications and storage products and services in competition with us and there can be no assurance that our distribution channels or our strategic partners will not further develop or market such products and services in the future. We may be unable to develop strategic alliances and marketing partnerships for the global distribution of our video platforms and applications, which may limit our ability to successfully market and sell these products. The market for our video platforms and applications is highly competitive. We believe that developing marketing partnerships and strategic alliances is an important factor in our success in marketing our video platforms and applications and in penetrating new markets for such products. However, unlike our voice platforms and applications, we have only recently started to develop a number of strategic alliances for the marketing and distribution of our video platforms and applications. We cannot assure you that we will be able to develop such partnerships or strategic alliances on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. Failure to develop such arrangements that are satisfactory to us may limit our ability to successfully market and sell our video platforms and applications and may have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. The markets in which we operate are characterized by rapid technological changes and frequent new products and service introductions. We may not be able to keep up with these rapid technological and other changes. We operate in several markets, each characterized by rapidly changing technology, new product introductions and evolving industry standards. The introduction of products embodying new technology and the emergence of new industry standards can render existing products obsolete and unmarketable and can exert price pressures on existing products. A number of existing and potential competitors might introduce new and enhanced products that could adversely affect the competitive position of our products. Our most significant market is the market for voice recording platforms and related enhanced applications (or Voice Platforms and Applications). Voice Platforms and Applications are utilized by the enterprise sector, which includes entities operating in the contact center, trading floor, branches, home agents and back offices, and by the security sector, which includes homeland security and first responders, transportation organizations and the public and private sector, to capture, store, retrieve and analyze recorded data. The market for our Voice Platforms and Applications is, in particular, characterized by a group of highly competitive vendors that are introducing rapidly changing competitive offerings around evolving industry standards. 6 Our ability to anticipate changes in technology and industry standards and to successfully develop and introduce new, enhanced and competitive products, on a timely basis, in all the markets in which we operate, will be a critical factor in our ability to grow and be competitive. As a result, we expect to continue to make significant expenditures on research and development, particularly with respect to new software applications, which are continuously required in all our business areas. The convergence of voice and data networks and wired and wireless communications could require substantial modification and customization of our current multi-dimensional products and business models, as well as the introduction of new multi-dimensional products. Further, customer acceptance of these new technologies may be slower than we anticipate. We cannot assure that the market or demand for our products and solutions will sustain or grow as rapidly as we expect, if at all, that we will successfully develop new products or introduce new applications for existing products, that such new products and applications will achieve market acceptance or that the introduction of new products or technological developments by others will not render our products obsolete. In addition, our products must readily integrate with major third party security, telephone, front-office and back-office systems. Any changes to these third party systems could require us to redesign our products, and any such redesign might not be possible on a timely basis or achieve market acceptance. Our inability to develop products that are competitive in technology and price and responsive to customer needs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additional factors that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations include industry specific factors; our ability to continuously develop, introduce and deliver commercially viable products, solutions and technologies; the market’s rate of acceptance of the product solutions and technologies we offer; and our ability to keep pace with market and technology changes and to compete successfully. We depend on the success of our recording solutions. Our recording solutions are based on a computer telephony integrated multi-channel voice recording and retrieval system. We are dependent on the success of our recording solutions to maintain profitability. Our recording solutions currently generate, and in recent years have generated, more than half of our revenues, and we anticipate that our recording solutions will continue to account for a significant portion of our sales in the next several years. A significant decline in sales of our recording solutions, or a significant decrease in the profit margin on such solutions, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We face risks relating to large projects in the security market. Some of the customer projects for which we offer our security products, solutions and related services are growing in size, especially city center protection projects. The larger and more complex such projects are, the greater the risks associated with such projects. These risks may include our exposure to penalties and liabilities resulting from a breach of contract, our ability to fully integrate our products with third party products, a combination of various technologies and complex environments, and our dependency upon subcontractors for various planning aspects, integration and the successful and timely completion of such projects. Also, we may be held liable for the failure of our subcontractors, from whom we may have no recourse. In addition, there may be more fluctuations in cash collection and revenue recognition with respect to such projects. 7 We face risks relating to government contracts. We sell our products and solutions to, among other customers, governments and governmental entities. These sales are subject to special risks, such as delays in funding, termination of contracts or sub-contracts at the convenience of the government, termination, reduction or modification of contracts or sub-contracts in the event of changes in the government’s policies or as a result of budgetary constraints, and increased or unexpected costs resulting in losses or reduced profits under fixed price contracts. Such occurrences have happened in the past and we cannot assure you that we will not experience problems in the future in our performance of such government contracts. Our business could be materially adversely affected as a result of the risks associated with acquisitions and investments. In particular, we may not succeed in making additional acquisitions or be effective in integrating such acquisitions. As part of our growth strategy, we have made a number of acquisitions over the past few years and expect to continue to make acquisitions. We frequently evaluate the tactical or strategic opportunity available related to complementary businesses, products or technologies. The process of integrating an acquired company’s business into our operations and/or of investing in new technologies, may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and large expenditures and may absorb significant management attention that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development of our business. Other risks commonly encountered with acquisitions include the effect of the acquisition on our financial and strategic position and reputation, the failure of the acquired business to further our strategies, the inability to successfully integrate or commercialize acquired technologies or otherwise realize anticipated synergies or economies of scale on a timely basis, and the potential impairment of acquired assets. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the anticipated benefits of any acquisition or investment will be realized. Future acquisitions or investments could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, and amortization expenses related to intangible assets, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in making additional acquisitions or effective in integrating such acquisitions into our existing business. In addition, if we consummate one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration consists, in whole or in part, of ordinary shares or American Depositary Shares (ADSs), representing our ordinary shares, shareholders would suffer dilution of their interests in us. We have also invested in companies which can still be considered in the start-up or development stages. These investments are inherently risky as the market for the technologies or products they have under development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. We could lose our entire initial investment in these companies. Due to changes in the industry and market conditions, we could also be required to realign our resources and consider restructuring or other action, which could result in an impairment of goodwill. 8 We have expanded into new markets and may not be able to manage our expansion and anticipated growth effectively. Over the last few years we have established a sales management and service infrastructure worldwide. In Asia and the Pacific (the APAC region), we recruited sales management and service personnel in order to bring about further growth in revenue in the Asia Pacific market and expanded our professional services group to include business consultants. Also, since 2002 we have been expanding our presence in Europe and in the Middle East and Africa (the EMEA region) through organic growth and through acquisitions. We have also recruited sales personnel in order to bring about more growth in the South America region. We may establish additional operations within these regions or in other regions where growth opportunities are projected. However, we cannot assure you that our revenues will increase as a result of this expansion or that we will be able to recover the expenses we incurred in effecting the expansion. Our failure to effectively manage our expansion of our sales, marketing, service and support organizations could have a negative impact on our business. To accommodate our global expansion, we are continuously implementing new or expanded business systems, procedures and controls. There can be no assurance that the implementation of such systems, procedures, controls and other internal systems can be completed successfully. Our evolving business strategy could adversely affect our business. Historically we have supplied the hardware and some software for implementing multimedia recording solutions. Our shift towards providing value-added services and an enterprise software business model has required and will continue to require substantial change, potentially resulting in some disruption to our business. These changes may include expanded or differing competition resulting from entering the enterprise software market, increased need to expand our distribution network to include system integrators which could impact revenues and gross margins and, as our applications are sold either to our installed base or to new customers together with our recording platforms, the rate of adoption of our software applications by the market. The changes in our business may place a significant strain on our operational and financial resources. We may experience substantial disruption from changes and could incur significant expenses and write-offs. Failing to carefully manage expense and inventory levels consistent with product demand and to carefully manage accounts receivable to limit credit risk, could materially adversely affect our results of operations. We may be unable to commercialize new video content analysis applications. We are currently in the process of developing and commercializing new video content analysis applications that will enable real-time detection of security threats. The market for such video content analysis applications is still in an early phase. In addition, because this is a new opportunity for changing security procedures and represents a transition to proactive security management, we are not able to predict the pace at which security organizations will adopt this technology, if at all. Successful positioning of our products is a critical factor in our ability to maintain growth. New potential entrants to the market may decide to develop video content analysis capabilities and compete with us in this emerging opportunity. As a result, we expect to continue to make significant expenditures on marketing. We cannot assure you that a market for these products will develop as rapidly as we expect or at all, that we will successfully develop new products or introduce new applications for existing products, that new products or applications will meet market expectations and needs, that we will be successful in penetrating these markets and in marketing our products or that the introduction of new products or technological developments by others will not adversely impact the demand for our video content analysis applications. 9 If the pace of spending by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security is slower than anticipated, our security business will likely be adversely affected, perhaps materially. The market for our security solutions in CCTV continuous recording, public safety and law enforcement is highly dependent on the spending cycle and spending scope of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, as well as local, state and municipal governments and security organizations in international markets. We cannot be sure that the spending cycle will materialize as we expect and that we will be positioned to benefit from the potential opportunities, especially in light of the current unfavorable economic and market conditions. We face foreign exchange currency risks. We are impacted by exchange rates and fluctuations thereof. We are likely to face risks from fluctuations in the value of the NIS, EUR, GBP and other currencies compared to the U.S. dollar, the functional currency in our financial statements. A significant portion of the expenses associated with our Israeli operations, including personnel and facilities related expenses, are incurred in NIS, whereas most of our business and revenues are generated mostly in U.S. dollars, but also in GBP, Euros and other currencies. In addition, a significant portion of the expenses associated with our European operations, are incurred in GBP and EUR. If the value of the U.S. dollar decreases against the NIS, our earnings may be negatively impacted. In 2007 and 2008, the value of the U.S. dollar significantly decreased against the NIS, which caused us to recognize higher dollar expenses. In 2008 the GBP and EUR decreased significantly against the U.S. dollar, which negatively impacted our earnings. We monitor foreign currency exposure and, from time to time, may use various instruments to preserve the value of sales transactions, expenses and commitments; however, this cannot assure our full protection against risks of currency fluctuations. For information on the market risks relating to foreign exchange, please see Item 11, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” in this annual report. Our uneven sales patterns could significantly impact our revenues and earnings. The sales cycle for our products and services is variable, typically ranging between a few weeks to several months from initial contact with the potential client to the signing of a contract. Frequently, sales orders accumulate towards the latter part of a given quarter. Looking forward, given the lead-time required by our contract manufacturer, if a large portion of sales orders are received late in the quarter, we may not be able to deliver products within the quarter and thus such sales will be deferred to a future quarter. There can be no assurance that such deferrals will result in sales in the near term, or at all. Thus, delays in executing client orders may affect our revenue and cause our operating results to vary widely. Additionally, as a high percentage of our expenses, particularly employee compensation, is relatively fixed, a variation in the level of sales, especially at or near the end of any quarter, may have a material adverse impact on our quarterly operating results. In addition, our quarterly operating results may be subject to significant fluctuations due to other factors, including the timing and size of orders and shipments to customers, variations in distribution channels, mix of products, new product introductions, competitive pressures and general economic conditions. It is difficult to predict the exact mix of products for any period between hardware, software and services as well as within the product category between audio platforms and related applications, transactional related platforms, digital video and communications intelligence. Because a significant portion of our overhead consists of fixed costs, our quarterly results may be adversely impacted if sales fall below management’s expectations. In addition, the period of time from order to delivery of our audio and video platforms and applications is short, and therefore our backlog for such products is currently, and is expected to continue to be, small and substantially unrelated to the level of sales in subsequent periods. As a result, our results of operations for any quarter may not necessarily be indicative of results for any future period. Due to all of the foregoing factors, in some future quarters our sales or operating results may be below our forecasts and the expectations of public market analysts or investors. 10 Our quarterly results are likely to fluctuate, which could cause us to miss market expectations and as a result may impact the trading price of our ordinary shares. The trading price of our ordinary shares has experienced significant volatility in the past and may continue to do so in the future. Unfavorable changes, many of which are outside of our control, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Historically, our revenues have reflected seasonal fluctuations related to slower spending activities in the first quarter, and the increased activity related to the year-end purchasing cycles of many users of our products. We believe that we will continue to encounter quarter-to-quarter seasonality. The current economic downturn could have a further impact on our quarter-to-quarter results and backlog We operate with certain backlog and we face factors such as timing and volume of orders within a given period that affect our ability to fulfill these orders and to determine the amount of our revenues within the period. We derive a substantial portion of our sales through indirect channels, making it more difficult for us to predict revenues because we depend partially on estimates of future sales provided by third parties. In addition, changes in our arrangements with our network of channel partners or in the products they offer, such as our recent introduction of new support programs for our customers, which combines support from our channel partners with back-end support from us, could affect the timing and volume of orders. Furthermore, our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations as to future revenues. If our revenue levels are below expectations, our operating results are likely to be adversely affected, since most of our expenses are not variable in the short term. Due to the factors described above, it is possible that in a particular future quarter, our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In this event, the price of our ordinary shares and ADSs would likely decline. We might recognize a loss with respect to our investments in financial instruments. We invest most of our cash in a variety of financial instruments. If the obligor of any of the instruments we hold defaults or undergoes reorganization in bankruptcy, we may lose a portion of such investment and our financial income may decrease. In addition, to the extent the general downturn in the credit markets continues, it could adversely affect the liquidity of our investments, or the downgrading of the credit rating of our investments could cause us to recognize some loss. For information on the types of our investments, see Item 11, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in this annual report. 11 Incorrect or improper use of our products or failure to properly provide professional services and maintenance services could result in negative publicity and legal liability. Our products and solutions are complex and are deployed in a wide variety of network environments. The proper use of our software requires extensive training and, if our software products are not used correctly or as intended, inaccurate results may be produced. Our products may also be intentionally misused or abused by clients who use our products. The incorrect or improper use of our products or our failure to properly provide installation, training, project management, consulting and maintenance services to our clients may result in losses suffered by our clients, which could result in negative publicity and product liability or other legal claims against us. We rely on software from third parties. If we lose the right to use that software, we would have to spend additional capital to redesign our existing software or develop new software. We integrate various third party software products as components of our products. We utilize third party software products to enhance the functionality of our products. Our business could be disrupted if functional versions of this software were either no longer available to us or no longer offered to us on commercially reasonable terms. In either case, we would be required to spend additional capital to either redesign our software to function with alternate third party software or develop these components ourselves. We might as a result be forced to limit the features available in our current or future product offerings and the commercial release of our products could be delayed. Undetected problems in our products could directly impair our financial results and we could face potential product liability claims against us. If flaws in the design, production, assembly or testing of our products and solutions (by us or our suppliers) were to occur, we could experience a rate of failure in our products or solutions that would result in substantial repair, replacement or service costs and potential liability and damage to our reputation. There can be no assurance that our efforts to monitor, develop, modify and implement appropriate test and manufacturing processes for our products or solutions will be sufficient to permit us to avoid a rate of failure in our products or solutions that results in substantial delays in shipment, significant repair or replacement costs or potential damage to our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be subject to claims that our products are defective or that some function or malfunction of our products caused or contributed to property, bodily or consequential damages. We attempt to minimize this risk by incorporating provisions into our distribution and standard sales agreements that are designed to limit our exposure to potential claims of liability. No assurance can be given that all claims will be barred by the contractual provisions limiting liability or that the provisions will be enforceable. We carry product liability insurance in the amount of $25,000,000 per occurrence and $25,000,000 overall per annum. No assurance can be given that the amount of any individual claim or all claims will be covered by the insurance or that the amount of any individual claim or all claims in the aggregate will not exceed insurance policy coverage limits. A significant liability claim against us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. 12 If our advanced compliance recording solutions fail to record our customers’ interactions, we may be subject to liability and our reputation may be harmed. Many of our customers use our solutions to record and to store recordings of commercial interactions. These recordings are used to provide back-up and verification of transactions and to guard against risks posed by lost or misinterpreted voice communications. These customers rely on our solutions to record, store and retrieve voice and other data in a timely, reliable and efficient manner. If our solutions fail to record our customers’ interactions or our customers are unable to retrieve stored recordings when necessary, we may be subject to liability and our reputation may be harmed. Although we attempt to limit any potential exposure through quality assurance programs, insurance and contractual terms, we cannot assure you that we will eliminate or successfully limit our liability for any failure of our recording and storage solutions. Our software products are highly complex, and any undetected software errors in our products could adversely affect our reputation, result in significant costs to us, impair our ability to market our products and expose us to legal liability. Our software products are highly complex. Despite extensive testing by us and by our clients, we have in the past discovered errors, failures, bugs or other weaknesses in our software applications and will likely continue to do so in the future. Such errors, failures, bugs or other weaknesses in products released by us could result in product returns, loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products, loss of competitive position, or claims by clients or others, which would seriously harm our revenues, financial condition and results of operations. Correcting and repairing such errors, failures or bugs could also require significant expenditures of our capital and other resources and could cause interruptions, delays or cessation of our product licensing. In addition, the identification of errors in our software applications or the detection of bugs by our clients may damage our reputation in the market as well as our relationships with existing clients, which may result in our inability to attract or retain clients. Further, since our products are used for compliance recording and operational risk management functions that are often critical to our clients, the licensing and support of our products makes us potentially subject to product liability claims. Any product liability insurance we carry may not be sufficient to cover our losses resulting from any such product liability claims. The successful assertion of one or more large product liability claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Inadequate intellectual property protections could prevent us from enforcing or defending our intellectual property and we may be subject to liability in the event our products infringe on the proprietary rights of third parties and we are not successful in defending such claims. Our success is dependent, to a significant extent, upon our proprietary technology. We currently hold 50 U.S. patents and 71 patents issued in additional countries covering substantially the same technology as the U.S. patents. We have over 150 patent applications pending in the United States and other countries. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark law, together with non-disclosure and non-competition agreements, as well as third party licenses to establish and protect the technology used in our systems. However, we cannot assure you that such measures will be adequate to protect our proprietary technology, that competitors will not develop products with features based upon, or otherwise similar to our systems, or that third party licenses will be available to us or that we will prevail in any proceeding instituted by us in order to enjoin competitors from selling similar products. Although we believe that our products do not infringe upon the proprietary rights of third parties, we cannot assure you that one or more third parties will not make a contrary claim or that we will be successful in defending such claim. 13 We generally distribute our software products under software license agreements that restrict the use of our products by terms and conditions prohibiting unauthorized reproduction or transfer of the software products. However, effective copyrights and other intellectual property rights protection may be inadequate or unavailable to us in every country in which our software products are available, and the laws of some foreign countries may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in Israel and the United States. From time to time, we receive “cease and desist” letters alleging patent infringements. No formal claims or other actions have been filed with respect to such alleged infringements, except for claims filed by Dictaphone and Verint America Inc. (both of which have since been settled and dismissed) and Multi-Format, Inc. (see Item 8, “Financial Information – Legal Proceedings” in this annual report). We cannot assure you, however, that we will be successful in defending against the claim that has been asserted or any other claims that may be asserted. We also cannot assure you that such claim will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or operations. Defending infringement claims or other claims could involve substantial costs and diversion of management resources. In addition, to the extent we are not successful in defending such claims, we may be subject to injunctions with respect to the use or sale of certain of our products or to liabilities for damages and may be required to obtain licenses which may not be available on reasonable terms, any of which may have a material adverse impact on our business or financial condition. We use certain “open source” software tools that may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, the assertion of which could impair our product development plans, interfere with our ability to support our clients or require us to pay licensing fees. Certain of our software products contain a limited amount of open source code and we may use more open source code in the future. Open source code is code that is covered by a license agreement that permits the user to liberally use, copy, modify and distribute the software without cost, provided that users and modifiers abide by certain licensing requirements. The original developers of the open source code provide no warranties on such code. As a result of our use of open source software, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source code and we may incur expenses in defending claims that we did not abide by the open source code license. If we are not successful in defending against such claims, we may be subject to monetary damages or be required to remove the open source code from our products. Such events could disrupt our operations and the sales of our products, which would negatively impact our revenues and cash flow. 14 In addition, under certain conditions, the use of open source code to create derivative code may obligate us to make the resulting derivative code available to others at no cost. The circumstances under which our use of open source code would compel us to offer derivative code at no cost are subject to varying interpretations. If we are required to publicly disclose the source code for such derivative products or to license our derivative products that use an open source license, our previously proprietary software products may be available to others without charge. If this happens, our customers and our competitors may have access to our products without cost to them, which could harm our business. We monitor our use of such open source code to avoid subjecting our products to conditions we do not intend. The use of such open source code, however, may ultimately subject some of our products to unintended conditions so that we are required to take remedial action that may divert resources away from our development efforts. We depend upon outsourcers for the manufacture of our key products. The failure of our product manufacturers to meet our quality or delivery requirements would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In 2002, we entered into a manufacturing agreement with Flextronics Israel Ltd., a subsidiary of Flextronics, a global electronics manufacturing services company. Under this agreement, Flextronics provides us with a comprehensive manufacturing solution that covers all aspects of the manufacture of our products from order receipt to product shipment, including purchasing, manufacturing, testing, configuration, and delivery services. This agreement covers all of our products. As a result of these arrangements, we are dependent on Flextronics to process orders and manufacture our products. Consequently, the manufacturing process of our products is not in our direct control. We may from time to time experience delivery delays due to the inability of Flextronics to consistently meet our quality or delivery requirements and we may experience production interruptions if Flextronics is for any reason unable to continue the production of our products. Should we have on-going performance issues with our contract manufacturers, the process to move from one contractor to another is a lengthy and costly process that could affect our ability to execute customer shipment requirements and/or might negatively affect revenue and/or costs. If this manufacturer or any other manufacturer were to cancel contracts or commitments with us or fail to meet the quality or delivery requirements needed to satisfy customer orders for our products, we could lose time-sensitive customer orders and have significantly decreased quarterly revenues and earnings, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we lose our key suppliers, our business may suffer. Certain components and subassemblies that are used in the manufacture of our existing products are purchased from a single or a limited number of suppliers. In the event that any of these suppliers are unable to meet our requirements in a timely manner, we may experience an interruption in production until an alternative source of supply can be obtained. Any disruption, or any other interruption of a supplier’s ability to provide components to us, could result in delays in making product shipments, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, some of our major suppliers use proprietary technology and software code that could require significant redesign of our products in the case of a change in vendor. Further, as suppliers discontinue their products, or modify them in manners incompatible with our current use, or use manufacturing processes and tools that could not be easily migrated to other vendors, we could have significant delays in product availability, which would have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Although we generally maintain an inventory for some of our components and subassemblies to limit the potential for an interruption and we believe that we can obtain alternative sources of supply in the event our suppliers are unable to meet our requirements in a timely manner, we cannot assure you that our inventory and alternative sources of supply would be sufficient to avoid a material interruption or delay in production and in availability of spare parts. 15 The European Union has issued directives relating to the sale in member countries of electrical and electronic equipment, including products sold by us. If our products fail to comply with these directives, we could be subject to penalties and sanctions that could materially adversely affect our business. A directive issued by the European Union on the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment, or “RoHS,” came into effect on July 1, 2006. Our products meet the requirements of the RoHS directive and we are making every effort in order to maintain compliance, without otherwise adversely affecting the quality and functionalities of our products. Our inability or failure to comply with these regulations, including by reason of failure by our suppliers to comply with the directive, may restrict us for a period of time from conducting certain business in the European Union and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. A further directive on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment, or “WEEE,” published by the European Union in 2003, promotes waste recovery with a view to reducing the quantity of waste for disposal and saving natural resources, in particular by reuse, recycling and recovery of waste electrical and electronic equipment. Our products fall within the scope of the WEEE directive, and we have set up the operational and financial infrastructure required for collection and recycling of WEEE, as stipulated in the WEEE directive, including product labeling, registration and the joining of compliance schemes. We are taking and will continue to take all requisite steps to ensure compliance with this directive. If we fail to maintain compliance, we may be restricted from conducting certain business in the European Union, which could adversely affect our results of operations. The countries of the European Union, as a single market for our products, accounted in 2008 for approximately 21% of our revenues. If our products fail to comply with WEEE or RoHS directives or any other directive issued from time to time by the European Union, we could be subject to penalties and other sanctions that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, similar regulations are being formulated in other parts of the world. We may incur substantial costs in complying with other similar programs that might be enacted outside Europe in the future. If we lose our key personnel or cannot recruit additional personnel, our business may suffer. If our growth continues or as a result of regular recruitment, we will be required to hire and integrate new employees. Recruiting and retaining qualified engineers and computer programmers to perform research and development and to commercialize our products, as well as qualified personnel to market and sell those products, are critical to our success. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 25% of our employees were devoted to research and product development and approximately 20% were devoted to marketing and sales. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully recruit and integrate new employees. There is often intense competition to recruit highly skilled employees in the technology industry. We may also experience personnel changes as a result of our move from multimedia recording equipment towards business performance solutions. An inability to attract and retain highly qualified employees may have an adverse effect on our ability to develop new products and enhancements for existing products and to successfully market such products, all of which would likely have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Our success also depends, to a significant extent, upon the continued service of a number of key management, sales, marketing and development employees, the loss of any of whom could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 If we are unable to maintain the security of our systems, our business, financial condition and operating results could be harmed. The occurrence, or perception of occurrence, of security breaches in the operation of our business or by third parties using our products could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Some of our customers use our products to compile and analyze highly sensitive or confidential information. We may come into contact with such information or data when we perform service or maintenance functions for our customers. While we have internal policies and procedures for employees in connection with performing these functions, the perception or fact that any of our employees has improperly handled sensitive information of a customer or a customer’s customer could negatively impact our business. If, in handling this information we fail to comply with our privacy policies or privacy and security laws, we could incur civil liability to government agencies, customers and individuals whose privacy was compromised. If personal information is received or used from sources outside the U.S., we could be subject to civil, administrative or criminal liability under the laws of other countries. In addition, third parties may attempt to breach our security or inappropriately use our products through computer viruses, electronic break-ins and other disruptions. If successful, confidential information, including passwords, financial information, or other personal information may be improperly obtained and we may be subject to lawsuits and other liability. Any internal or external security breaches could harm our reputation and even the perception of security risks, whether or not valid, could inhibit market acceptance of our products. Our business could be materially adversely affected by changes in the legal and regulatory environment. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected if laws, regulations or standards relating to our products or us are newly implemented or changed. In addition, our revenues would be harmed if we fail to adapt our products to changes in regulations applicable to the business of certain of our clients, such as securities trading, broker sales compliance and anti-money laundering laws and regulations. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and share price. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposes certain duties on us. Our efforts to comply with the requirements of Section 404, which first applied to our financial statements for 2006, have resulted in increased general and administrative expenses and a devotion of management time and attention to compliance activities, and we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting. In addition, we may identify material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in investigation and/or sanctions by regulatory authorities, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information, and the market price of our ordinary shares and ADSs. 17 Additional tax liabilities could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. As a global corporation, we are subject to income and other taxes both in Israel and various foreign jurisdictions. Our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of revenues and expenses in different jurisdictions and the timing of recognizing revenues and expenses. Additionally, the amount of income taxes paid is subject to our interpretation of applicable laws in the jurisdictions in which we do business. From time to time, we are subject to income and other tax audits. While we believe we comply with applicable tax laws, there can be no assurance that a governing tax authority will not have a different interpretation of the law and assess us with additional taxes. Should we be assessed additional taxes, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Risks relating to Israel We are subject to the political, economic and security conditions in Israel. Our headquarters, research and development and main manufacturing facilities, as well as the facilities of Flextronics Israel Ltd., our key manufacturer, are located in the State of Israel, and we are directly affected by the political, economic and security conditions to which Israel is subject. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors. A state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Since October 2000, there has been a high level of violence between Israel and the Palestinians. Hamas, an Islamist movement responsible for many attacks, including missile strikes, against Israelis, won the majority of the seats in the Parliament of the Palestinian Authority in January 2006 and took control of the entire Gaza Strip by force in June 2007. Further, in the summer of 2006, Israel engaged in a war with Hezbollah, a Lebanese Islamist Shiite militia group, which involved thousands of missile strikes and disrupted most day-to-day civilian activity in northern Israel. Rocket strikes from Gaza have increased since June 2007, and thousands of rockets have been fired at population centers in southern Israel, leading to an armed conflict between Israel and Hamas in January 2009. In addition, acts of terrorism, armed conflicts or political instability in the region could negatively affect local business conditions and harm our results of operations. We cannot predict the effect on the region of any diplomatic initiatives or political developments involving Israel or the Palestinians or other countries in the Middle East. Furthermore, several countries restrict doing business with Israel and Israeli companies, and additional companies may restrict doing business with Israel and Israeli companies as a result of an increase in hostilities. Our products are heavily dependent upon components imported from, and most of our sales are made to, countries outside of Israel. Accordingly, our operations could be materially adversely affected if trade between Israel and its present trading partners were interrupted or curtailed. 18 Some of our officers and employees are currently obligated to perform annual military reserve duty and some were called to duty during the summer of 2006 and in January 2009. Additionally, in the event of a military conflict, including the ongoing conflict with the Palestinians, these persons could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. We cannot assess the full impact of these requirements on our workforce or business and we cannot predict the effect on us of any expansion or reduction of these obligations. Service and enforcement of legal process on us and our directors and officers may be difficult to obtain. Service of process upon our directors and officers, most of whom reside outside the United States, may be difficult to obtain within the United States. Furthermore, since the majority of our assets and most of our directors and officers are located outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or these individuals or entities may not be collectible within the United States. Additionally, it may be difficult to enforce civil liabilities under U.S. federal securities law in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws because Israel is not the most appropriate forum to bring such a claim. In addition, even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. There is little binding case law in Israel addressing these matters. Our results may be affected by the availability of government grants and tax benefits. Our participation in these programs restricts our ability to freely transfer manufacturing rights and technology out of Israel. We derive and expect to continue to derive significant benefits from various programs including Israeli tax benefits relating to our “Approved and Privileged Enterprise” programs and certain grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor, or OCS, for research and development. To be eligible for these grants, programs and tax benefits, we must continue to meet certain conditions, including making certain specified investments in fixed assets and conducting the research, development and manufacturing of products developed with such OCS grants in Israel (unless a special approval has been granted for performing manufacturing activities outside Israel). From time to time, the Israeli Government has discussed reducing or eliminating the availability of these grants, programs and benefits and there can be no assurance that the Israeli Government’s support of grants, programs and benefits will continue. If grants, programs and benefits available to us or the laws, rules and regulations under which they were granted are eliminated or their scope is further reduced, or if we fail to meet the conditions of existing grants, programs or benefits and are required to refund grants or tax benefits already received (together with interest and certain inflation adjustments) or fail to meet the criteria for future “Approved or Privileged Enterprises,” our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected including an increase in our provision for income taxes. 19 On April 1, 2005, an amendment to the Israeli law which deals with Approved Enterprises came into force. Pursuant to the amendment, a company’s facility will be granted the status of “Approved Enterprise” only if it is proven to be an industrial facility (as defined in such law) that contributes to the economic independence of the Israeli economy and is a competitive facility that contributes to the Israeli gross domestic product. The amendment incorporates certain changes to both the criteria and procedure for obtaining “Approved Enterprise” status for an investment program, and changes to the tax benefits afforded in certain circumstances to “Approved Enterprises” under such law (which is referred to as a “Privileged Enterprise” following such amendment). We have four Privileged Enterprise programs, which are covered by the amendment. While we believe that we meet the statutory conditions as set out in the amendment, there can be no assurance that the tax authorities in Israel will concur. Should it be determined that these Privileged Enterprise programs do not meet the statutory conditions, our provision for income taxes will increase materially. As a result of the amendment, tax-exempt income generated under the provisions of the amended law, will subject us to taxes upon dividend distribution or complete liquidation. We do not intend to distribute any amounts of our undistributed tax exempt income as dividends as we intend to reinvest our tax-exempt income. Accordingly, no deferred income taxes have been provided on income attributable to our Approved or Privileged Enterprise programs as the undistributed tax exempt income is essentially permanent in duration. Under Israeli law, products incorporating know-how developed with grants from the OCS are required to be manufactured in Israel, unless prior approval of a governmental committee is obtained. As a condition to obtaining this approval, we may be required to pay to the OCS up to 300% of the grants we received and to repay these grants on an accelerated basis, depending on the portion of manufacturing performed outside Israel. In addition, we are prohibited from transferring to third parties the technology developed with these grants without the prior approval of a governmental committee and, possibly, the payment of a fee. See Item 4, “Information on the Company – Research and Development” in this annual report, for additional information about OCS programs. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or impede an acquisition of us, which could prevent a change of control. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers and tender offers, requires tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions unappealing to us or to some of our shareholders. These provisions could delay, prevent or impede an acquisition of us. See Item 10, “Additional Information – Mergers and Acquisitions” in this annual report, for additional discussion about some anti-takeover effects of Israeli law. Risks related to our Ordinary Shares and ADSs Our share price is volatile and may decline. Numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control, may cause the market price of our ordinary shares or our ADSs, each of which represents one ordinary share, to fluctuate significantly. These factors include, among other things, announcements of technological innovations, development of or disputes concerning our intellectual property rights, customer orders or new products by us or our competitors, currency exchange rate fluctuations, earnings releases by us or our competitors, general economic and market conditions, market conditions in the industry and the general state of the securities markets, with particular emphasis on the technology and Israeli sectors of the securities markets. 20 Future sales of our ADSs may impact the market price of our ADSs. If we or our shareholders sell substantial amounts of our ADSs in the public market, the market price of our ADSs could decline. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. Following an acquisition, our ADSs held by new holders may become freely tradable. 