Item 1A. Risk Factors — “Risks Related to Current Market Conditions,” under current market conditions, the prices for which we can sell the bonds, 27 loans and other debt investments we own are significantly lower than the prices for which they could be sold under normal market conditions. Risk Related to our Affordable Housing Division Affordable housing partnerships may not be able to repay their borrowings from us and that could adversely affect the return on the investment to us or to the funds we manage. We advance substantial funds as loans (including our investments in bonds) to partnerships engaged in the development of affordable housing projects. While these projects are under construction, they are subject to the normal risks that affect construction lenders, as discussed above under the caption “General Risks Related to our Business — We are exposed to the normal risks that affect construction lenders that could adversely affect our or our funds’ return on investment.” Because substantially all the units in most of those projects are rented to individuals or families with incomes no greater than 60% of area median incomes, there is a risk that tenants will not be able to pay their rent, and therefore the partnerships that own the projects will not be able to make required payments on the mortgage debt we hold and that could adversely affect the return on the investment to us or to the funds we manage. As a sponsor of tax credit equity funds, we have exposure to risk of loss if we are unable to place partnership interests at sufficiently high prices. In connection with our sponsorship of tax credit equity funds as described in Item 1. Business — “Our Tax Credit Equity Segment,” we have often advanced funds by acquiring interests in partnerships or other entities that own affordable housing projects with the intention of selling those interests to tax credit equity funds we sponsor. At any point in time, the amount of these advances can be material. Generally, we have recovered our advances by selling the interests to tax credit equity funds we have sponsored. At December 31, 2008 we were holding interests for which we had paid $30.5 million, and were committed to pay an additional $82.1 million to purchase interests, which we expected to sell to tax credit equity funds. However, currently we are not able to form new tax credit equity funds, and therefore we can only sell partnership interests we are holding or are committed to purchase to existing LIHTC Funds, and only to the extent those funds have access to capital with which to make additional investments, or to third party purchasers. Further, the yield investors in tax equity funds are requiring has risen to a level that has caused us to lose money on many of the sales we do make. In 2008, we expect to recognize significant losses from selling interests we had acquired in tax credit generating partnerships. Economic conditions have substantially reduced demand for investments that generate tax credits, and therefore we have curtailed our efforts to identify investments that generate tax credits or to form LIHTC Funds. Late in 2007 and early in 2008, several of the entities that historically had been the principal investors in LIHTC finds we sponsor indicated that during all or most of 2008, they would not be making investments in order to benefit from low income tax credits. Those entities have announced significant net losses from their own activities, and therefore, may not have taxable income for a substantial period. If they do not have taxable income, they probably will have no need for tax credits. As a result of this, during 2008, we suspended our efforts to form new LIHTC Funds or to identify potential investments for new LIHTC Funds. We are currently attempting to sell our Tax Credit Equity business. Substantially all of our investments are illiquid, which could prevent us from consummating sales on favorable terms and makes it difficult for us accurately to value our investment portfolio. There is no regular trading market for most of the tax-exempt and taxable real estate related debt and equity interests in which we and the funds we manage have invested. This results in a serious lack of liquidity, particularly during weak markets, such as those that have prevailed since the summer of 2007 and are discussed in the portion of this Risk Factors section captioned “Risks Related to Current Credit Market 28 Conditions” and “General Risks Related to Our Business.” The lack of liquidity could seriously adversely affect the price for which we, or the funds we manage, could sell debt or equity securities if necessary. In addition, the absence of liquid markets for the interests we hold makes them difficult to value, and could require us to write down the carrying value of the interests because of market conditions that do not actually affect the performance of assets that support the securities that we hold. We have provided guarantees with respect to certain of the tax credit equity funds that we sponsored, and if we were to become obligated to perform on those guarantees our financial condition and results of operation could suffer. We have guaranteed availability of tax benefits and minimum returns on investment to investors in some of the tax credit equity funds that we sponsored. We could be required to make substantial payments with regard to these guarantees. If we were to become obligated to perform on those guarantees our financial condition and results of operation could suffer. Noncompliance with various legal requirements by the affordable housing partnerships could impair our investors’ right to low income housing tax credits and have a negative impact on our business. The ability of investors in tax credit equity funds we sponsor to benefit from low income housing tax credits requires that the partnerships in which those funds invest operate affordable housing projects in compliance with a number of requirements in the Code and the Regulations under it. Failure to comply continuously with these requirements throughout a 15-year recapture period could result in loss of the right to those low income housing tax credits, including recapture of credits that were already taken. While we are not legally required to assure availability of tax credits (except in limited instances in which we have guaranteed availability of tax benefits and minimum returns to fund investors), in order to maintain relationships with investors, we might decide to cure delinquent mortgage payments or do other things to protect investors’ access to low income housing tax credits. These events could have a negative impact on our business. A significant portion of our interests in tax-exempt bonds and our residual interests in securitized asset pools have been pledged as collateral to support securitization programs. A significant group of our assets are residual interests in securitization vehicles to which we sold tax-exempt bonds. Those residual interests are only entitled to interest after all senior interests have received specified interest payments and generally are not entitled to principal payments until all senior interests have been paid in full. In addition, we pledged investments as collateral with respect to these securitization programs. Among other things, in a typical securitization facility, the payment of the interest and principal on senior floating rate interests is guaranteed by a third-party credit enhancement provider, we are required to reimburse the credit enhancer for any payments it may be required to make as a result of its guarantee and we have pledged assets to secure that reimbursement obligation. If the credit enhancer is required to repay the senior floating rate certificates, both the securities in the securitization pool and the additional assets we have pledged may be sold to reimburse the credit enhancer for the sums it had to pay. This may result in our incurring significant losses. In addition, if the value of the tax-exempt bonds we have securitized or pledged as collateral for a securitization program decreases significantly, we may be required to post cash or additional investments as additional collateral for the program. If we do not post the additional collateral, the securitization program may be terminated and the securitized bonds and additional collateral we pledged may be liquidated to satisfy the obligations to the holders of the securitization program certificates. This could result in the sale of the collateral at an inopportune time (such as the current time) on unfavorable terms. 29 Risks Related to Our Real Estate Division Substantially all of our investments are illiquid, which could prevent us from consummating sales on favorable terms and makes it difficult for us accurately to value our investment portfolio. There is no regular trading market for most of the market rate commercial real estate related debt and equity interests in which we and funds we manage have invested. This could result in a serious lack of liquidity, particularly during weak markets, such as those that have prevailed since the summer of 2007 and are discussed in the portion of this Risk Factors section captioned “Risks Related to Current Credit Market Conditions” and “General Risks Related to Our Business.” The lack of liquidity could seriously adversely affect the price for which we, or the funds we manage, could sell debt or equity securities if necessary. The assets in which we invest may not realize the value forecasted at acquisition. Although market conditions are a substantial factor in our ability to sell assets in which we have invested, the underlying value of those assets affects both our ability to sell them and their value to us as long-term investments. We have devoted substantial attention to analyzing investments before we make them. However, these analyses were made at a time when real estate markets were significantly different from those that currently prevail. Because of that, several market rate commercial loans we made are in arrears and there may be defaults with regard to other loans we have made. A portion of our market rate investments are subordinated bonds or are junior in right of payment to other obligations and if the borrowers are unable to make all required payments, we may suffer losses. When we hold junior or subordinated debt instruments or bond interests, if the borrower is unable or fails to make all of its required payments, we will not be paid until all the senior securities or senior bond interests have been paid in full. Further, in most instances we cannot, without the consent of the senior holders, take actions that might protect our interests. That can further reduce the likelihood of our receiving the full sum due to us if a borrower becomes insolvent. At December 31, 2008, we had market rate bond and loan investments in our Real Estate division totaling $78.2 million and $94.1 million, respectively, which were subordinate to more senior interests. As a delegated underwriter and servicer in the Fannie Mae DUS program and Freddie Mac Program Plus program, we have agreed to share losses (up to specified levels) on loans that we underwrite and sell to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. As discussed in Item 1. Business, we participate in the Fannie Mae DUS and Freddie Mac Program Plus programs. The terms of our participation require that we assume responsibility for a portion of any loss that may result from borrower defaults including foreclosure, based on Fannie Mae’s and Freddie Mac’s loss sharing formulas. Under the Fannie Mae DUS program, we are generally responsible for the first 5% of the unpaid principal balance and 25% of any additional losses with a maximum cap of 20% of the original principal balance. Certain loans have a maximum cap of 30% and 40% and different loss sharing percentages. Under the Freddie Mac Program Plus program, we are generally responsible for the first 8% of the unpaid principal balance. Although our losses to date under these guarantees have been minimal, that may not always be the case and a material increase in these losses could have a negative impact on our financial condition or results of operations. We have agreed to sell the business that participates in these programs. The agreement entitles the purchaser to reduce the liquidation preference of preferred shares received as compensation for the sale by up to $30.0 million for losses under these programs. 30 Our agency loan origination business is particularly dependent on maintaining our relationships with the GSEs that participate in the multifamily housing market and adverse changes to those relationships could cause our business and results of operations to suffer. We have agreed to sell the portion of our business that participates in the DUS program and in Freddie Mac’s Program Plus and other programs. Completion of that transaction is conditioned upon the purchaser being licensed to participate in those programs. We expect the transaction to be completed during the second quarter of 2009. If the transaction is not completed, we would continue to be subject to risks related to our relationships with GSEs. The maintenance of our DUS license with Fannie Mae and our participation in Freddie Mac’s Program Plus and other programs have been important to the continued productivity of our debt sector operations. As a DUS lender, we have been subject to periodic reviews by Fannie Mae, and we have had to comply with a variety of underwriting and servicing guidelines imposed by Fannie Mae. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could revoke our program licenses if we did not comply with the program guidelines. Also, the value of our DUS license could be adversely impacted if Fannie Mae were to change the delegated authority of its DUS lenders or otherwise make it more costly or difficult for DUS lenders to underwrite and service loans on Fannie Mae’s behalf. If Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac were to admit more financial services firms into their programs, our competitive advantage would decline. We have no control over whether Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac expands the size of its programs. The value of our DUS license and our participation in Freddie Mac’s Program Plus could be adversely impacted if either of those GSEs were to invite a significant number of new participants into its program. If more financial services firms compete for business in this marketplace, the profit margins on our debt business would likely decline and our results of operations could suffer. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Shares Our Board can issue an unlimited number of common or preferred shares, which could reduce our book value per common share and earnings per common share and the cash or other assets available for distribution per common share upon liquidation or otherwise. Under our Operating Agreement, our Board of Directors can authorize, without any requirement of shareholder approval, the issuance of an unlimited number of common shares. Although New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) rules imposed some limitations on our ability to issue shares without shareholder approval, our shares are not currently listed on the NYSE. Issuances of common shares could dilute the book value or the net income per common share or the cash per share available for distribution to common shareholders. Our Board can also authorize, without any requirement of shareholder approval, the issuance of an unlimited number of shares with preferences over the common shares as to dividends, distributions on liquidation and other matters, other than voting. This could reduce the book value and net earnings that would be allocable to our common shares and the cash or other assets that are available for distribution to our common shareholders either periodically or upon our liquidation. We have stopped paying dividends and it is unlikely we will resume paying them in the near future. Prior to the fourth quarter of 2007, we paid increasing dividends to our shareholders for 43 consecutive quarters. In January 2008 in response to deteriorating market conditions and our increasing costs, our Board reduced the dividend for the fourth quarter of 2007 by 37% from what we had paid for the prior quarter. The following quarter, our Board did not declare any dividend and our Board has not declared any dividend since then. Our Board considers a number of factors in deciding whether we should pay a dividend for a quarter. However, in view of the difficulty we are having generating the cash we need for our operations and to satisfy our lenders, it is unlikely that we will pay a dividend in the near future. 31 Our shareholders may be taxed on their respective shares of our taxable income, even if we do not make distributions to them. We are a limited liability company, not a corporation, and we have elected to be taxed as though we were a partnership. Because of that, our taxable income and loss, and our other tax attributes (including the tax-exempt nature of some of the interest we receive) are treated, at least for U.S. federal income tax purposes, as the taxable income or loss and other tax attributes, of our shareholders. That avoids the double tax to which corporations and their shareholders usually are subject, and enables our shareholders to benefit from the fact that a portion of our income is exempt from federal income tax. However, if we have taxable income in excess of the sums we are able to distribute to our shareholders, our shareholders will be taxed on sums they do not receive, since under the rules of partnership taxation our shareholders are taxed based on taxable income and not on our distributions. In addition, much of our tax-exempt income is subject to the alternative minimum tax (“AMT”) for federal income tax purposes and shareholders who are subject to the AMT could be subject to tax on such income even if we do not distribute it. In 2008, although we had substantial losses for financial accounting purposes and we passed through to our shareholders for tax purposes capital losses due to bond sales and closing out of derivative positions, we also passed through to our shareholders tax-exempt interest income and some taxable interest income. Some shareholders may have capital gains as a result of the share price they paid for our common shares. We could have additional federal income tax obligations which would reduce the sums available for distribution to shareholders. Because we and a number of our subsidiaries are taxed as though we were partnerships, we and those subsidiaries do not have to pay federal income taxes on a significant portion of our income. As is discussed in Item 1. Business — “Material U.S. Federal Tax Considerations,” it is possible that because of changes in the tax laws or changes in the way the tax laws are applied, or by our own election, we may at some time become subject to federal income tax, which would reduce the sums we would have available to distribute to our shareholders. Also, it is possible that the dividends we pay, including the portions derived from our tax-exempt income, could become fully taxable to our shareholders in the same manner, and at the same rates, as dividends paid by taxable corporations. One of our shareholders has the right to designate one, and in some circumstances two, of our directors, which is a right that is not available to any other of our shareholders. Under our organizational documents (since our inception), Shelter Development Holdings, Inc., which is controlled by Mark Joseph, the Chairman of our Board, or its successor has the right to appoint one of our directors, or, if we have more than ten directors, it has the right to appoint two of our directors. This right is not available to any other of our shareholders. Provisions of our Operating Agreement may discourage attempts to acquire us. Our Operating Agreement contains at least three groups of provisions that could have the effect of discouraging people from trying to acquire control of us. Those provisions are: • If any person or group, other than Shelter Development Holdings, Inc., SCA Tax-Exempt Fund, MME I Corporation, MME II Corporation or their affiliates, acquires 10% or more of our shares, that person or group cannot, with a very limited exception, (1) engage in a business combination with us (including an acquisition from us of more than 10% of our assets or more than 5% of our shares) within five years after the person or group acquires the 10% or greater interest, unless our Board of Directors approved the business combination or approved the acquisition of a 10% or greater interest in us before it took place, or the business combination is approved by two-thirds of the members of our Board and holders of two-thirds of the shares that are not owned by the person or group that owns the 10% or greater interest; or (2) engage in a business combination with us until more than five years after the person or group acquires the 10% or greater interest, unless the business combination is recommended by our 32 Board of Directors and approved by holders of 80% of our shares or of two-thirds of the shares that are not owned by the person or group that owns the 10% or greater interest. • If any person or group makes an acquisition of our shares that causes the person or group to be able to exercise between one-fifth and one-third of all voting power of our shares, between one-third and a majority of all voting power of our shares, or a majority or more of all voting power of our shares, the acquired shares will lose their voting power, except to the extent approved at a meeting by the vote of two-thirds of the shares not owned by the person or group, and we will have the right to redeem, for their fair market value, any of the acquired shares for which the shareholders do not approve voting rights. • One third of our directors (except one, or in some circumstances two, directors designated by Shelter Development Holdings, Inc) are elected each year to three year terms. That could delay the time when somebody who acquires voting control of us could elect a majority of our directors. The above provisions could deprive our shareholders of opportunities that might be attractive to many of them. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 