Item 1A. Risk Factors RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR SUBSIDIARIES Many of our titles have short lifecycles and fail to generate significant revenues. The market for entertainment software is characterized by short product lifecycles and frequent introduction of new products. Many software titles do not achieve sustained market acceptance or do not generate a sufficient level of sales to offset the costs associated with product development. A significant percentage of the sales of new titles generally occurs within the first three months following their release. Therefore, our continued profitability depends upon our ability to acquire and sell new, commercially successful titles and to replace revenues from titles in the later stages of their lifecycles. Any competitive, financial, technological or other factor which delays or impairs our ability to introduce and sell our software could adversely affect our future operating results. We may fail to anticipate changing consumer preferences. Our business is speculative and is subject to all of the risks generally associated with the entertainment software industry, which has been cyclical in nature and has been characterized by periods of significant growth followed by rapid declines. Our future operating results will depend on numerous factors beyond our control, including: · the popularity, price and timing of new software and hardware platforms being released and distributed by us and our competitors; · international, national and regional economic conditions, particularly economic conditions adversely affecting discretionary consumer spending; · changes in consumer demographics; · the availability of other forms of entertainment; and · critical reviews and public tastes and preferences, all of which change rapidly and cannot be predicted. In order to plan for acquisition and promotional activities, we must anticipate and respond to rapid changes in consumer tastes and preferences. A decline in the popularity of entertainment software or particular platforms could cause sales of our titles to decline dramatically. We may not be able to protect our proprietary rights. We acquire proprietary software and technologies. We attempt to protect our software and production related intellectual property under copyright, trademark and trade secret laws as well as through contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and distribution. Entertainment software is susceptible to unauthorized copying. Unauthorized third parties may be able to copy or to reverse engineer our software to obtain and use programming or production techniques that we regard as proprietary. In addition, our competitors could independently develop technologies substantially equivalent or superior to our technologies. 7 We may be subject to intellectual propriety claims. As the number of entertainment software products increases and the features and content of these products continue to overlap, software developers increasingly may become subject to infringement claims. Many of our products are highly realistic and feature materials that are based on real world examples, which may inadvertently infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. Our products often utilize complex technology that may become subject to the intellectual property rights of others. Although we believe that we make reasonable efforts to ensure that our products do not violate the intellectual property rights of others, it is possible that third-parties still may claim infringement. From time to time, we receive communications from third-parties regarding such claims. Existing or future infringement claims against us, whether valid or not, may be time consuming and expensive to defend. Intellectual property litigation or claims could force us to do one or more of the following: · cease selling, incorporating or using products or services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; · obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property, which if available at all, may not be available on commercially favorable terms; or · redesign the effected entertainment software products, which could cause us to incur additional costs, delay introduction and possibly reduce commercial appeal of our products. Any of these actions may cause material harm to our business and financial results. Rating systems for entertainment software, potential legislation and consumer opposition could inhibit sales of our products. The home video game industry requires entertainment software publishers to provide consumers with information relating to graphic violence or sexually explicit material contained in software titles. Certain countries have also established similar rating systems as prerequisites for sales of entertainment software in such countries. We believe that we comply with such rating systems and display the ratings received for our titles. Our software titles generally receive a rating of “G” (all ages) or “T” (age 13 and over), although certain of our titles receive a rating of “M” (age 18 and over), which may limit the potential markets for these titles. Several proposals have been made for federal legislation to regulate the entertainment software, motion picture and recording industries, including a proposal to adopt a common rating system for entertainment software, television and music containing violence and sexually explicit material and an inquiry by the Federal Trade Commission with respect to the marketing of such material to minors. Consumer advocacy groups have also opposed sales of entertainment software containing graphic violence and sexually explicit material by pressing for legislation in these areas and by engaging in public demonstrations and media campaigns. If any groups were to target our titles, we might be required to significantly change or discontinue a particular title. We operate in a highly competitive industry. The entertainment software industry is intensely competitive and new entertainment software products and platforms are regularly introduced. Our competitors vary in size from small companies with limited resources to very large corporations with significantly greater financial, marketing and product development resources than we have. Due to these greater resources, certain of our competitors can spend more money and time on developing and testing products, undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies, pay higher fees to licensors for desirable motion picture, television, sports and character properties and pay more to third-party software developers than we can. We believe that the main competitive factors in the entertainment software industry include: product features and playability; brand name recognition; compatibility of products with popular platforms; access to distribution channels; quality of products; ease of use; price; marketing support; and quality of customer service. 8 We also face increasing competition for the leisure and entertainment time of consumers. Our publishing business competes with all other sources of information and entertainment, including television, movies, music, live events, radio broadcasts, home video products, print media and the Internet. Technological advancements, such as new streaming capabilities and downloading entertainment via the Internet, have increased the number of media and entertainment choices available to consumers and presents challenges as our audience becomes more fragmented. The increasing number of choices available to consumers could negatively impact demand for our products, or require us to use additional resources to develop more sophisticated software, or both. If we do not respond effectively to increases in the leisure and entertainment choices available to consumers, it could have an adverse effect on our competitive position and revenues If our products contain defects, our business could be harmed significantly. Software products as complex as the ones we publish may contain undetected errors when first introduced or when new versions are released. Despite extensive testing prior to release, we cannot be certain that errors will not be found in new products or releases after shipment, that could result in loss of or delay in market acceptance. This loss or delay could significantly harm our business and financial results. We rely on independent third parties to develop a number of our software products. We rely on independent third-party entertainment software developers to develop a number of our software products. Since we depend on these developers we remain subject to the following risks · continuing strong demand for developers’ resources, combined with the recognition they receive in connection with their work, may cause developers who worked for us in the past either to work for our competitors in the future or to renegotiate our agreements with them on terms less favorable for us; · limited financial resources and business expertise and inability to retain skilled personnel may force developers out of business prior to completing our products or require us to fund additional costs; and · our competitors may acquire the businesses of key developers or sign them to exclusive development arrangements. In either case, we would not be able to continue to engage such developers’ services for our products, except for those that they are contractually obligated to complete for us. Due to the limited number of third-party developers and the limited control that we exercise over them, these developers may not be able to complete titles for us on a timely basis or within acceptable quality standards, if at all. The software game market has gravitated towards mass merchant retailers. The software game market has gravitated toward mass merchant retailers thereby increasing the competition for shelf space for games. This increased competition has emphasized the importance of marketing, merchandising and brand name recognition. A significant result of these market pressures is an industry trend toward the consolidation of consumer entertainment software publishers and distributors, in addition to the diversification of products offered by these companies. The trends toward industry consolidation and increased competition for game content and retail shelf space are more pronounced in North America than in international markets and are expected to continue for the foreseeable future. We may face difficultly obtaining access to retail shelf space necessary to market and sell our products effectively. Retailers of our products typically have a limited amount of shelf space and promotional resources, and there is intense competition among consumer entertainment software products for high quality retail shelf 9 space and promotional support from retailers. To the extent that the number of products and platforms increases, competition for shelf space may intensify and may require us to increase our marketing expenditures. Retailers with limited shelf space typically devote the most and highest quality shelf space to those products expected to be best sellers. We cannot be certain that our new products will achieve such “best seller” status. Due to increased competition for limited shelf space, retailers and distributors are in an increasingly better position to negotiate favorable terms of sale, including price discounts, price protection, marketing and display fees and product return policies. Our products constitute a relatively small percentage of any retailer’s sales volume. We cannot be certain that retailers will continue to purchase our products or to provide our products with adequate levels of shelf space and promotional support on acceptable terms. A prolonged failure in this regard may significantly harm our business and financial results. We permit our customers to return our products and to receive pricing concessions which could reduce our net revenues and results of operations. We are exposed to the risk of product returns and price protection with respect to our distributors and retailers. Return policies allow distributors and retailers to return defective, shelf-worn and damaged products in accordance with terms granted. Price protection, when granted and applicable, allows customers a credit against amounts they owe us with respect to merchandise unsold by them. We may permit product returns from, or grant price protection to, our customers under certain conditions. The conditions our customers must meet to be granted the right to return products or price protection are, among other things, compliance with applicable payment terms, delivery to us of weekly inventory and sell-through reports, and consistent participation in the launches of our premium title releases. We may also consider other factors, including the facilitation of slow-moving inventory and other market factors. When we offer price protection, we offer it with respect to a particular product to all of our retail customers; however, only those customers who meet the conditions detailed above can avail themselves of such price protection. Although we maintain a reserve for returns and price protection, and although we may place limits on product returns and price protection, we could be forced to accept substantial product returns and provide substantial price protection to maintain our relationships with retailers and our access to distribution channels. Product returns and price protection that exceed our reserves could significantly harm our business and financial results. Technology changes rapidly in our business, and if we fail to anticipate or successfully implement new technologies, the quality, timeliness and competitiveness of our products and services will suffer. Rapid technology changes in our industry require us to anticipate, sometimes years in advance, which technologies we must implement and take advantage of in order to make our products and services competitive in the market. Therefore, we usually start our product development with a range of technical development goals that we hope to be able to achieve. We may not be able to achieve these goals, or our competition may be able to achieve them more quickly than we can. In either case, our products and services may be technologically inferior to our competitors’, less appealing to consumers, or both. If we cannot achieve our technology goals within the original development schedule of our products and services, then we may delay their release until these technology goals can be achieved, which may delay or reduce revenue and increase our development costs. Alternatively, we may increase the resources employed in research and development in an attempt to accelerate our development of new technologies, either to preserve our product or service launch schedule or to keep up with our competition, which would increase our development costs. Our business is highly dependent on the success, timely release and availability of new video game platforms, on the continued availability of existing video game platforms, as well as our ability to have commercially successful products developed for these platforms. We derive a majority of our revenue from the sale of products for play on video game platforms manufactured by third parties, such as Sony’s PlayStation 2, PlayStation 3 and PSP; and Microsoft’s Xbox, Xbox 360 and Nintendo Wii and DS. The success of our business is driven in large part by the availability of an adequate supply of current generation video game platforms (such as the PlayStation 2), 10 the adequate supply, and, increasingly, the success of new video game hardware systems (such as the Xbox 360, PlayStation 3 and the Wii), our ability to accurately predict which platforms will be successful in the marketplace, and our ability to have commercially successful products developed for these platforms. We must make product development decisions and commit significant resources well in advance of the anticipated introduction of a new platform. A new platform for which products are being developed may not succeed or may have a shorter life cycle than anticipated. Alternatively, a platform for which we have not devoted significant resources could be more successful than we had initially anticipated, causing us to miss a meaningful revenue opportunity. If the platforms for which products are being developed are not available in adequate quantities to meet consumer demand or are lower than our expectations, or do not attain wide market acceptance, our revenue will suffer and our financial performance will be harmed. The video game hardware manufacturers set the royalty rates and other fees that we must pay to publish games for their platforms, and therefore have significant influence on our costs. If one or more of these manufacturers adopt a different fee structure for future game consoles, our profitability will be materially impacted. In order to publish products for a video game system such as the Xbox 360, PlayStation 3 or Wii, we must take a license from the manufacturer, which gives it the opportunity to set the fee structure that we must pay in order to publish games for that platform. Similarly, certain manufacturers have retained the flexibility to change their fee structures, or adopt different fee structures for online gameplay and other new features for their consoles. The control that hardware manufacturers have over the fee structures for their platforms and online access makes it difficult for us to predict our costs, profitability and impact on margins. Because publishing products for video game systems is the largest portion of our business, any increase in fee structures would significantly harm our ability to generate revenues and/or profits. 11 RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR OPERATIONS There is no assurance that we can successfully implement our business plan that calls for the acquisition of additional entertainment software titles and businesses to create a larger presence in the marketplace. We have engaged in, evaluated, and expect to continue to engage in and evaluate, a wide array of potential strategic transactions, including (i) acquisitions of companies, businesses, intellectual properties, and other assets, (ii) minority investments in strategic partners, and (iii) investments in new interactive entertainment businesses. Any of these strategic transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. Although we regularly search for opportunities to engage in strategic transactions, we may not be successful in identifying suitable opportunities. We may not be able to consummate potential acquisitions or investments or an acquisition or investment may not enhance our business or may decrease rather than increase our earnings. If we are unable to successfully integrate acquisitions, our revenue growth and future profitability may be negatively impacted. The process of integrating an acquired business, technology or product may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and may absorb significant management attention and capital that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business. In addition, we may not be able to maintain the levels of operating efficiency that any company we may acquire achieved or might have achieved separately. Additional risks we face include: · the need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company in an acquired company that, prior to the acquisition, lacked these controls, procedures and policies; · cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from an acquired company or business into our organization; · retaining key employees from the businesses we acquire; · the need to integrate an acquired company’s accounting, management information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management; and · to the extent that we engage in strategic transactions outside of the United States, we face additional risks, including risks related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. Future acquisitions and investments could involve the issuance of our equity securities, potentially diluting our existing shareholders, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, write-offs of goodwill, intangibles, or acquired in-process technology, or other increased expenses, any of which could harm our financial condition. Our shareholders may not have the opportunity to review, vote on or evaluate future acquisitions or investments. Covenants in our agreements relating to our Variable Rate Secured Convertible Debentures due April 30, 2010 may limit our flexibility and prevent us from taking certain actions, which could adversely affect our ability to execute our business strategy. Our agreements relating to our Variable Rate Secured Convertible Debentures due April 30, 2010 contain significant restrictive covenants. These covenants could adversely affect us by limiting our ability to plan for or react to market conditions, meet our capital needs and execute our business strategy. These covenants, among other things, limit our ability to issue or sell (i) any debt or equity securities that are convertible into, exchangeable or exercisable for additional shares of our common stock either (1) at a conversion, exercise or exchange rate or other price that is based upon and/or varies with the trading 12 prices of or quotations for the shares of our common stock at any time after the initial issuance of such debt or equity securities, or (2) with a conversion, exercise or exchange price that is subject to being reset at some future date after the initial issuance of such debt or equity security or upon the occurrence of specified or contingent events directly or indirectly related to our business or the market for our common stock; or (ii) enter into any equity line of credit. A breach of these covenants could result in the Variable Rate Secured Convertible Debentures becoming immediately due and payable. Additionally, these covenants could limit our flexibility in raising additional capital in the future which could limit our ability to implement our business strategies. Since a significant amount of our assets are denominated in foreign currency and since we conduct business internationally, we are subject to currency and foreign regulatory risks. Strategy First is incorporated in Canada and sells products throughout the United States and Europe. Its functional currency is the Canadian Dollar. This has exposed the company to market risk with respect to fluctuations in the relative value of the Euro, British Pound, the Canadian Dollar, and the US Dollar. Empire PLC is incorporated in the United Kingdom and sells products throughout Europe and the United States. Its functional currency is the British Pound. This has exposed us to market risk with respect to fluctuations in the relative value of the Euro, British Pound and the US Dollar. Certain of the Company’s cash balances and the remaining proceeds from the sale of its South African subsidiaries are denominated in South African Rand. This has exposed the Company to market risk with respect to fluctuations in the relative value of the South African Rand against the US Dollar. We expect to repatriate our funds held in South Africa to the United States. We believe that repatriation of the full amount is allowable under current South African foreign currency regulations. Over the last eight years, we have, from time to time, repatriated funds from South Africa without restriction. However, there can be no guarantee that the South African foreign currency regulations will not change in the future in a manner that might restrict our ability to repatriate the remaining assets. We currently are disputing a tax liability with the South African revenue service and we may be forced to expense additional amounts in this matter. In April 2006, our subsidiary, First South African Holdings, received a letter from the South African Revenue Service (“SARS”) challenging certain tax treatment of dividends and operating loss carry forwards for the years 2002 through 2004. In May, 2007, the Company through an arbitration procedure with SARS reached an agreement whereby SARS agreed in principle to drop the larger of its two assessments. The Company conceded the principle of SARS second assessment. On August 31, 2007, the Company paid approximately $300,000 to SARS in regard to this assessment. The Company is vigorously disputing a further amount of approximately $770,000 and believes it has strong arguments in this regard based on among other factors, computational errors made by SARS in its assessment. Based on its payments to SARS, the Company has reduced its estimated liability to approximately $313,000. The Company believes its remaining liability to SARS is lower than this amount, however, in the event its arguments are unsuccessful, it may be forced to increase this liability. We depend on the continued services of key personnel. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our executive officers, some of whom are also our principal shareholders, and the continued contributions of the management of our operating subsidiaries. Our business could be adversely affected by the loss of services of, or a material reduction in the amount of time devoted to us by our executive officers or the executive officers of our subsidiary. We do not carry key man insurance. 13 RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON STOCK The price of our common stock is highly volatile. The price of our common stock is highly volatile. Fluctuations in the market price of our common stock may be a result of any number of factors or a combination of factors including, but not limited to: · the number of shares in the market and the number of shares we may be required to issue in the future compared to market demand for our shares; · our performance and meeting expectations of performance, including the development and commercialization of our current and proposed products and services; · market conditions for internet and media companies in the small capitalization sector; and · general economic and market conditions. Since we do not intend to declare dividends in the foreseeable future, the return on your investment will depend upon the appreciation of the market price of your shares. We have never paid any dividends on our common stock. Our board of directors does not intend to declare any dividends in the foreseeable future, but intends to retain all earnings, if any, for use in our business operations. As a result, the return on your investment in us will depend upon any appreciation in the market price of our common stock. The holders of common stock are entitled to receive dividends when, as and if declared by the board of directors out of funds legally available for dividend payments. The payment of dividends, if any, in the future is within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon our earnings, capital requirements and financial condition, and other relevant factors. Anti-takeover measures in our Bye-laws could adversely affect the voting power of the holders of our common stock. Our Bye-laws authorize the issuance of up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our board of directors. Accordingly, our board of directors is empowered, without shareholder approval, but subject to applicable government regulatory restrictions, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights which could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of our common stock. In the event of issuance, the preferred stock could be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of us. Although we have no present intention to issue any shares of our preferred stock, we cannot assure we will not do so in the future. The rights of shareholders under Bermuda law may not be as extensive as the rights of shareholders under the laws of jurisdictions in the United States. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Memorandum of Association and Bye-laws, as well as the common law of Bermuda relating to companies and the Companies Act 1981. Our Bye-laws limit the right of security holders to bring an action against our officers and directors. The laws of Bermuda relating to shareholder rights, protection of minorities, fiduciary duties of directors and officers, matters of corporate governance, corporate restructuring, mergers and similar arrangements, takeovers, shareholder suits, indemnification of directors and inspection of corporate records, may differ from those that would apply if we were incorporated in a jurisdiction within the United States. The rights of shareholders in a Bermuda company may not be as extensive as the rights of a shareholder of a United States company and, accordingly, the holders of our shares of common stock may be more limited in their ability to protect their interests in us. In addition, there is uncertainty whether the courts of Bermuda would enforce judgments of the courts of the United States and of other foreign jurisdictions. There is also uncertainty whether the courts of Bermuda would enforce actions brought in Bermuda which are predicated upon the securities laws of the United States. 14 Our common stock may be delisted from NASDAQ. The National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. has established certain standards for the continued listing of a security on the NASDAQ Capital Market. The standards for continued listing require, among other things, that the minimum bid price for the listed securities be at least $1.00 per share. A deficiency in the bid price maintenance standard will be deemed to exist if the issuer fails the individual stated requirement for thirty consecutive trading days, with a 180-day cure period with respect to the NASDAQ Capital Market. During November and December 2004 and March 2005 our common stock traded below a price of $1.00 per share. There can be no assurance that we will continue to satisfy the requirements for maintaining a NASDAQ Capital Market listing. If our common stock were to be excluded from NASDAQ, the market price of our common stock and the ability of holders to sell such stock would be adversely affected, and we would be required to comply with the initial listing requirements to be relisted on NASDAQ. Our common stock may become subject to the Commission’s penny stock rules. If our common stock is excluded from NASDAQ and the price per share of our common stock is below $5.00, our securities would become subject to certain “penny stock” rules promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission unless we satisfy certain net asset and revenue tests. The application of these rules to our common stock may adversely impact both your ability to resell our common stock (liquidity) and the market price of these shares. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document prepared by the Securities and Exchange Commission that provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction, and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from such rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination of suitability of the investor purchasing the penny stock. ITEM 