Item 1A. Risk Factors. Holding our common shares involves various risks and uncertainties. You should be aware that should any of the risks described in this section, or elsewhere in this Annual Report, materialize, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and the value of our common shares. General Risks Related to Our Business Economic conditions adversely affecting the real estate market could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Since we own and finance investments directly or indirectly secured by real estate, and primarily multifamily real estate, the value of our investments and the performance of the properties financed by us may be materially adversely affected by macroeconomic conditions having an adverse impact on the real estate market, generally, and the multifamily real estate market, specifically. These factors include, among others: • High levels of unemployment and other adverse economic conditions, regionally or nationally; • Decreased occupancy and rent levels due to supply and demand imbalances; • Changes in interest rates as discussed in greater detail below under “—Changing interest rates may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations”; and • Unfavorable local or national regulatory conditions, including tax law changes, rent control legislation or tenant income restrictions, affecting the multi-family housing market. Any of these factors could depress the value of our investments, impact the ability of our developer clients to fulfill their commitments to us or decrease the demand for our financing products. Changing interest rates may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have exposure to changes in interest rates both as a function of the effect of interest rate changes on our business and industry, generally, and as a result of specific debt and securitization transactions to which we are a party. At December 31, 2005, we had $1.2 billion of aggregate floating interest rate exposure, including exposure related to our bond securitizations and our credit arrangements. At December 31, 2005, $226.0 million of our floating-rate exposure related to our bond securitizations, including off-balance sheet securitizations, was not hedged by interest rate swaps or investments in floating-rate senior interests in securitizations. Most of our floating-rate exposure related to our credit arrangements is mitigated by investing in matching floating-rate investments; however, this type of structure could be impacted by rising interest rates. Although we have established reserves to protect us in the event of margin calls, we may reserve too little (resulting in the need for unanticipated cash outlays) or too much (reducing profitability). We enter into economic hedging transactions for limited time periods that are typically substantially shorter than the term of our interest rate exposure. At December 31, 2005, the weighted average maturities of our floating rate securitization trusts, credit arrangements and interest rate hedges were approximately 9.37, 1.13 and 2.55 years, respectively. There can be no assurance that we will be able to enter into new hedges at favorable rates, or at all, when the existing arrangements expire, a risk that is increased by our use of a strategy that requires us to enter into new arrangements often. In addition, while we have historically hedged most of our securitization-related floating rate exposure using interest rate swaps, we may reevaluate our interest rate risk management policies and determine to hedge less of our securitization-related floating rate risk as we continue to grow and diversify our product lines. There is a significant risk that we could be required to liquidate investments to satisfy margin calls if interest rates rise or fall dramatically. In addition, certain hedging activities involve transaction costs. If we hedge against interest rate risks, we may substantially reduce our net income or adversely affect our financial condition. In addition to its effect on our debt and securitization transactions, a change in interest rates may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation as a result of the corresponding effects on the multifamily 9 Table of Contents and other real estate markets generally. A decrease in market interest rates may result in our borrowers’ redeeming, prepaying or refinancing our bonds or taxable loans prior to their stated maturity. In such event, we may be unable to reinvest the proceeds at an attractive rate of return or in an investment that otherwise satisfies our investment criteria. Additionally, lower mortgage interest rates may make home ownership more economically appealing and reduce the demand for rental housing, thereby decreasing productions levels across our business units. Conversely, an increase in market interest rates could: reduce new multifamily housing starts (and consequently reduce origination income); cause a decrease in the value of some of our investments (including on a sale of such investments); increase our borrowing costs; cause investors to find alternative investments that are more economically attractive than our products; or reduce, possibly to zero, interest distributions on our residual interests in securitization programs. These occurrences would adversely affect the amount of cash that we have available to make distributions to holders of our common shares and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our operations are expected to result in higher income for us in the second and fourth fiscal quarters than in the first and third fiscal quarters. Our operating results from our tax credit equity business are expected to fluctuate based on seasonal patterns and are generally less predictable than revenues from our other real estate finance activities. Although, we anticipate that our highest revenues from our tax credit equity business, and thus overall, will occur in the second and fourth calendar quarters, there can be no assurance that this will be the case. These fluctuations could result in a decrease in cash flow and could be perceived negatively and, therefore, adversely affect the market price for our common shares. The federal government has historically supported investment in affordable multifamily housing through regulatory incentives, and changes or modifications to the regulatory environment could adversely affect our results of operations. Federal tax law Our business prospects are directly impacted by tax policies, which affect demand for our debt and equity financing products as well as investor demand for our common shares, and by the availability of tax credits, which affect the supply of our product. The federal income tax laws are constantly under review by participants in the legislative process and by the IRS and the Treasury Department. Changes to the federal income tax laws and administrative interpretations thereof (which changes may have retroactive effect) could adversely affect our shareholders. It cannot be predicted whether, when, in what forms, or with what effective dates the federal income tax laws applicable to us or our shareholders will be changed. Although there is a history of affordable housing subsidies by the federal government, changes in tax policies could have a significant and material effect on us. In 2003, legislative changes provided for the taxation of “qualified dividend income” received by non-corporate domestic taxpayers at long-term capital gains rates, the maximum of which was reduced to 15%; these change were recently extended through 2010. The reduced rate of tax on dividends generally applies only to dividends paid out of earnings and profits realized by the corporate payor. We arrange for corporations to make investments in exchange for tax credits (that are available under various federal programs) and losses (that reduce the earnings and profits of the corporate investor). In connection with this business, we receive fees for selling the tax credits, make loans to and earn interest on those loans from developers and receive fees for managing assets. Since losses produced by the typical tax credit investment reduce an investor’s capacity to pay qualified dividends, legislation favoring the payment of qualified dividends could decrease the value of tax credits to corporate investors and the tax credit syndication industry could be harmed. The 2003 legislation also diminished the importance of a primary advantage of investing in tax-exempt bonds under prior law—that interest received on these bonds was tax exempt while dividend income from investments in corporate equity was taxed at ordinary rates. Legislation that makes taxable investments more attractive can increase the cost of tax-exempt financings if interest rates offered by municipal and other eligible borrowers rise to compensate investors for the reduction in the tax advantage. This could lead to a decrease in 10 Table of Contents tax-exempt borrowing activities, which would reduce our opportunities to originate, structure and invest in tax-exempt financings. Such legislation could adversely affect our operations and could negatively affect our net income. While the tax-exempt portion of our distributions is, and under the 2003 legislation will remain, excludable from gross income, the 2003 legislation discussed above or similar future legislation could cause the after-tax returns available from other investments to increase, and cause shares in other companies to become more attractive relative to our shares. These changes could also reduce the value of our existing investments, since tax-exempt bond income would not enjoy the same degree of tax advantage as provided under the previous law. Community Reinvestment Act Demand for our products may be impacted by the Community Reinvestment Act, which requires financial institutions to invest in affordable housing. As a supplier of investment products backed by affordable housing, we benefit from the demand for investments that help financial institutions meet Community Reinvestment Act requirements. Changes in the Community Reinvestment Act could have a significant and material effect on us by reducing demand for our products. Events adversely impacting the GSEs that provide liquidity to the market for investments in affordable housing could materially adversely affect our business. Recently, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have been under heavy scrutiny by the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Congress and the SEC. Both have experienced accounting problems and changes in top management. It is possible that the on-going scrutiny of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could result in changes in their regulatory oversight, accounting practices or special benefits currently granted to these entities. A number of sizeable financial services companies and trade associations have launched a concerted effort to limit the growth of the GSEs and spur close examination of how the benefits of their GSE status are being employed. Currently, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are the largest corporate buyers of low-income housing tax credits. We are also a Fannie Mae DUS lender and a Freddie Mac Program Plus lender, which enables us to sell loans that we originate to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac also provide credit enhancement on our behalf that facilitates the securitization of certain of our assets, and Fannie Mae provides credit enhancement for some of the bonds that we originate. While it is impossible to predict what changes will occur and what their impact will be on the activities of the GSEs, any changes could conceivably result in a contraction of the GSEs’ support of the affordable housing market or an increase to the GSEs’ cost of capital, either of which could limit our product offerings or make some of our products less competitive. We are exposed to construction completion and rehabilitation risks as well as the risk that completed developments in a lease-up phase do not become stabilized. A portion of our interest income from investments is secured by residential rental housing properties that are still in various stages of construction or which are undergoing substantial rehabilitation, and we may make similar investments in commercial properties. In addition, we invest in similarly situated properties through our tax credit equity business. Construction or rehabilitation of such properties generally takes approximately 12 to 24 months. The principal risk associated with this type of lending is the risk of non-completion of construction or rehabilitation, which may arise as a result of: (a) underestimated initial construction or rehabilitation costs; (b) delays; (c) failure to obtain governmental approvals; and (d) adverse weather and other unpredictable contingencies beyond the control of the developer. If the underlying mortgage securing one of our investments is defaulted due to construction and/or rehabilitation not being completed as required in the underlying documents, we, as the holder of the investments secured by such mortgage, will incur certain costs and may be required to invest additional capital in order to preserve our investment. In addition, a portion of our interest income from investments is secured by mortgages on properties which are currently in a lease-up phase, and we invest in similarly situated properties through our tax credit equity business. The lease-up of these properties may not be completed on schedule or at anticipated rent levels, 11 Table of Contents resulting in a greater risk that these investments may go into default than investments secured by mortgages on properties that are stabilized or fully leased-up. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the underlying property will achieve expected occupancy or debt service coverage levels. If these investments do not perform as anticipated, we may suffer losses on the investments and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The properties directly or indirectly securing our investments or included in our tax credit equity funds may not generate sufficient income to make the payments due to us, and the borrowers under our investments may default on their obligations under these investments. We have no guarantee that the obligors on our investments will be able to satisfy their obligations to us or that the project partnerships included in our tax credit equity funds will be able to satisfy their obligations. In addition to the macroeconomic factors described above under “—Economic conditions adversely affecting the real estate market could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations,” there are property level risks that may result in individual defaults, including increased property level expenses, property mismanagement, and unanticipated environmental problems, among others. Some of the income from our investing business comes from equity investments in partnerships that own multifamily housing developments. We have limited recourse in the event of a default on a tax-exempt bond or the bankruptcy of a borrower under a tax-exempt bond, and, as a holder of the junior interests in some investments, we have an even more limited ability to take actions that might protect our interests. An assignment of the related mortgage loan, secured by a mortgage on the underlying property and an assignment of rents, is the security for each of our tax-exempt bonds. With respect to stabilized properties, the owners of the underlying properties are only liable for the payment of principal and interest under the mortgage loans to the extent of the cash flow and sale proceeds from the properties. Accordingly, the revenue derived from the operation of the properties and amounts derived from the sale, refinancing or other disposition of the properties is the sole source of funds for payment of principal and interest to us under the tax-exempt bonds. Where we hold a junior position in such investments, the holders of the senior interests may control the ability to enforce remedies. We also invest directly in taxable mortgage loans, which present a similar set of relationships. At December 31, 2005, $266.3 million of tax-exempt bonds and loans were on non-accrual status (i.e., in default on payment obligations to us). Interest income recognized on these bonds and loans was $7.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. Additional interest income that we would have recognized had these bonds and loans been on accrual status was approximately $15.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. At times, we make loans though back-to-back investments where we borrow funds from MAHGT and lend the proceeds to developers. MAHGT bears the risk of loss with respect to these underlying investments and as such, if interest income is not recognized by us, we are not required to pay interest expense to MAHGT. $0.9 million of the $15.2 million of interest income not recognized related to our MAHGT relationship during 2005. Risks Related to Our Tax Credit Equity Segment As a sponsor of tax credit equity funds, we have exposure to risks of loss in the event that we are unable to place project partnerships into tax credit funds or we are unable to recover our advances to certain project partnerships. In connection with the sponsorship of tax credit equity funds as described above under Part I, Item 1. Business “Our Business—Our Tax Credit Equity Segment,” we advance funds to acquire interests in property-owning partnerships for inclusion in tax credit equity funds and, at any point in time, the amount of our advances can be material. We typically finance these acquisitions through draws on a line of credit. Recovery of these amounts is subject to our ability to attract tax credit equity investors or, if investors are not found, the sale of the partnership interests in the underlying properties. We could also be liable to investors in tax credit equity funds 12 Table of Contents and third parties as a result of serving as general partner or special limited partner in such funds. In addition, even when we are not required to do so, we may advance funds to allow these funds to meet their expenses and/or generate the expected tax benefits to investors, and we might not be able to recover these advances. We provide guarantees with respect to certain of the tax credit equity funds that we sponsor, and if we were to become obligated to perform on such guarantees our financial condition and results of operations could suffer. As described above under Part I, Item 1. Business “Our Business—Our Tax Credit Equity Segment,” we provide guarantees to investors in connection with certain of the tax credit equity funds that we sponsor. We could be required to advance funds under such guarantees to lower-tier partnerships to ensure that the investors do not lose their expected tax benefits, and, if the internal rate of return to investors falls below the guaranteed level, we would be required to make a payment so that the guaranteed rate of return will be achieved. Our maximum potential liability pursuant to those guarantees was $547.7 million as of December 31, 2005. See Part II, Item 7. “Capital Resources—Guarantees” and Note 9, “Guarantees and Collateral” in the notes to our financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report. The tax credit equity funds sponsored by us may not generate sufficient cash to pay fees due to us, which could negatively impact our cash flows. Much of the revenue from our tax credit equity business is earned from multi-tiered funds that we sponsor. These funds are dependent upon the cash flows of lower-tier partnerships in which they invest to generate their own cash flows that are used to pay fees for services, such as the advisory services that we render to them. As the lower-tier partnerships are susceptible to numerous operational risks related to real estate investments generally (see “—General Risks Related to Our Business—Economic conditions adversely affecting the real estate market could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations”), the upper-tier funds may not collect sufficient cash to pay the fees they owe to us. If we do not collect these fees, the negative impact on our cash flows, and our net income if we determine the fees are not collectible, could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. There is a risk of elimination of, or changes to, governmental programs that could limit the product offerings of our tax credit equity business. As discussed above under Part I, Item 1. Business “Our Business—Our Tax Credit Equity Segment,” our tax credit equity business derives revenue from the syndication of partnership interests in properties eligible for low income housing tax credits, or LIHTCs. Although LIHTCs are a part of the Code, Congress could repeal or modify the LIHTC provisions at any time or modify the tax laws so that the value of LIHTC benefits is reduced. If the LIHTC provisions are repealed or adversely modified, the results of operations of our tax credit equity business would be materially adversely affected. In addition, other government programs may have an impact on our tax credit equity business, such as: (a) passage of a home ownership tax credit program (which is currently supported by the Bush administration), which may reduce the supply and/or demand for LIHTCs; (b) reduction of funding for rent supplements, including the HUD voucher program, which may affect the cash flow and financial performance of LIHTC properties in funds syndicated by us; or (c) significant changes to the Code which may reduce the benefits that investors currently receive from the LIHTC program. The tax credit equity syndication market is a maturing market, and we are increasingly competing with more syndicators, which may result in lower profit margins in the future. There are relatively few barriers to entry in the tax credit equity syndication market. As more financial services companies enter this marketplace, competition has increased and our profit margins have decreased. As more syndicators compete for business in a marketplace characterized by a static pool of LIHTCs, the profit 13 Table of Contents margins on our tax credit equity business will likely decline and our results of operations may suffer. In addition, as described under “—There is a risk of elimination of, or changes to, governmental programs that could limit the product offerings of our tax credit equity business,” if governmental support for the LIHTC program decreases, this competition could become even more intense as the amount of credits decreases. Risks Related to Our Debt and Structured Finance Segments Substantially all of our investments are illiquid, which could prevent us from consummating sales on favorable terms and makes it difficult for us to accurately value our investment portfolio. Substantially all of our investments lack a regular trading market. This lack of liquidity would be worse during turbulent market conditions or if any of our tax-exempt bonds were determined to be taxable (as discussed under “—Risks Related to the Application of Tax Laws—The characterization of certain of our income as exempt for federal income tax purposes depends upon compliance with numerous sections of the Code—Tax-exempt status of the bonds”) or if any of our bonds or loans were to go into default (as discussed under “General Risks Related to Our Business—The properties directly or indirectly securing our investments may not generate sufficient income to make the payments due to us, and the borrowers under our investments may default on their obligations under these investments.”). As a result of this illiquidity, we could be forced to sell investments on unfavorable terms. In addition, the characteristic illiquidity of our investments makes them hard to value and may cause significant changes in the fair value of our investments as recorded on our financial statements, which would be reflected in carrying value and other comprehensive income. Significant unfavorable changes in the fair value of our investments could adversely affect the value of our common shares. A significant portion of our assets are involved with securitization programs and, in the event of certain defaults, such assets could be liquidated to meet senior obligations. In addition, if the value of our assets is impaired, we could be required to post additional collateral or terminate the facilities. As described above under Part I, Item 1. Business “Our Business—Our Debt Segment—Tax Exempt Bonds and Bond Securitizations,” we securitize some of our investments, and we retain residual interests in the securitization programs. In addition, we also pledge investments as collateral with respect to these securitization programs. As of December 31, 2005, approximately $1.2 billion, or 86.8% of the fair value, of our investments in bonds (the majority of which is held in MuniMae TE Bond Subsidiary, LLC (“TE Bond Sub”), our subsidiary that owns a significant portion of our tax exempt bonds and bond-related investments), were either deposited in securitization trusts or pledged as collateral for short-term and long-term securitization programs. In the event a securitization trust cannot meet its obligations, all or a portion of the deposited tax-exempt bonds may be sold to satisfy the obligations to the holders of the senior interests. Therefore, cash flow from these tax-exempt bonds may not be available to pay any amounts on our residual interests. In the event of the liquidation of the tax-exempt bonds, no payment will be made to us except to the extent that the sale price received for the tax-exempt bonds exceeds the amounts due on the senior obligations of the trust. Further, in a typical short-term securitization facility the payment of the interest and principal on the senior floating rate interests is guaranteed by a third-party credit enhancement provider. If the third party is required to repay the senior floating rate certificates (as a result of poor performance of the bonds deposited in the trust), both the deposited bonds and our pledged assets may be sold to reimburse the third party for its advance of funds and we may lose the cash flow from these tax-exempt bonds and our ownership interest in them. In addition, there may not be sufficient cash flow to pay interest contractually due to us as residual interest holder or bondholder. Our ability to remedy defaults inside the trust is limited. See Note 9, “Guarantees and Collateral—Collateral” in the notes to our financial statement included elsewhere in this Annual Report. In addition, if the value of our investments in tax-exempt bonds pledged as collateral for securitization programs decreases significantly, we may be required to post cash or additional investments as additional collateral for such programs. In the event that we have insufficient liquidity or unencumbered investments to 14 Table of Contents satisfy these collateral requirements, the securitization programs may be terminated and the pledged collateral liquidated to satisfy the obligations to the holders of the securitization program certificates. In such cases, we would lose the cash flow from the tax-exempt bonds and our ownership interest in them, and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. A portion of our investments are subordinated securities or interests in bonds that are junior in right of payment to other bonds, notes or instruments, and, in the event that the borrowers are unable to make all required payments, we may not receive all payments on such investments to which we are entitled. As of December 31, 2005, we held investments in subordinated securities or interests in bonds that are junior in right of payment to other bonds, notes or instruments aggregating approximately $68.8 million, or 4.8% of the fair value of our bonds and bond-related investments. Among the risks of these investments are that borrowers may not be able to make payments on both the senior and the junior interests and that the value of the underlying asset may be less than the amounts owed to both the senior and the junior interest holders. In certain circumstances, the borrower may also issue additional senior debt, further reducing the security available for the junior interest holders. As a consequence, we, as a holder of a junior interest, could receive less than the full and timely repayment of our investment. Moreover, the holders of the senior interests may control the ability to enforce remedies. Without the consent of the senior holders, we may have limited ability to take actions that might protect our interests. If the cash flow with respect to a particular investment is not sufficient to make full payments on the junior interests, this may adversely affect our financial condition, the amount of cash that we have available to make distributions to holders of our common shares and the value of our common shares. As a delegated underwriter and servicer in the Fannie Mae DUS program, we have agreed to share losses (up to certain specified levels) on loans that we underwrite and sell to Fannie Mae. As discussed above under Part I, Item 1. Business “Our Business” and “Our Business—Our Debt Segment—GSE Business,” we participate in the Fannie Mae DUS program. The terms and conditions of our participation in this program require that we retain a first loss position with respect to loans that we underwrite and sell to Fannie Mae. We assume responsibility for a portion of any loss that may result from borrower defaults, based on Fannie Mae’s loss sharing formulas. Generally, in the event of a default on such a loan, we are responsible for the first 5% of the unpaid principal balance and a portion of any additional losses to a maximum of 20%–40% of the original principal balance depending on the risk level of the loan; any remaining loss is borne by Fannie Mae. As of December 31, 2005 our maximum exposure under the DUS program was approximately $529.3 million. Although our losses to date under these guarantees have been immaterial, there can be no assurance that we will not experience significant losses in the future. The growth of our business is dependent on maintaining our relationships with the GSEs that participate in the multifamily affordable housing market. The maintenance of our DUS license with Fannie Mae and our participation in Freddie Mac’s Program Plus are important to the continued productivity and growth of our debt segment operations. As a DUS lender, we are subject to periodic reviews by Fannie Mae, and we must comply with a variety of underwriting and servicing guidelines imposed by Fannie Mae. Fannie Mae could revoke our DUS license in the event that we do not comply with the program guidelines. Alternatively, the value of our DUS license could be adversely impacted if Fannie Mae were to change the delegated authority of its DUS lenders or otherwise make it more costly or difficult for DUS lenders to underwrite and service loans on Fannie Mae’s behalf. As the GSEs admit more financial services firms into their programs, our competitive advantage decreases and our financial condition and results of operations may suffer. We have no control over whether Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac expands the size of their programs. The value of our DUS license and our participation in Freddie Mac’s Program Plus could be adversely impacted if either of 15 Table of Contents those GSEs were to invite a significant number of our competitors to participate in those programs. As more financial services firms compete for business in this marketplace, the profit margins on our debt business will likely decline and our results of operations may suffer. Risks Related to Our Fund Management Segment If our registration as an SEC registered investment adviser were revoked or otherwise terminated, we could lose investment advisory clients. A growing portion of our business after the MRC acquisition (discussed above under Part I, Item 1. Business, “Recent Developments—Acquisitions”) includes providing investment advisory services to institutional clients. Currently, we are registered with the SEC as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended (the “Advisers Act”). Certain of our current clients, and potential future clients, desire or require their advisers to be registered with the SEC. If our registration under the Advisers Act were revoked or otherwise terminated, we could lose investment advisory clients or be unable to grow this portion of our business, and our results of operations could suffer. Risks Related to the Application of Tax Laws Our classification as a publicly traded partnership not taxable as a corporation is not free from doubt and could be challenged. As discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report, we operate as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, which permits us to pass through most of our tax items—including taxable income, tax-exempt income, deductions, credits and other tax items—to shareholders. The listing of our common shares on the New York Stock Exchange, however, causes us to be treated as a “publicly traded partnership” for federal income tax purposes. As a publicly traded partnership, we will be taxed as a corporation for any taxable year in which less than 90% of our gross income consists of “qualifying income.” Qualifying income includes interest, dividends, real property rents, gains from the sale or other disposition of real property or other capital assets held for the production of interest or dividends, and certain other items. Our outside counsel has advised us that, although the issue is not free from doubt, tax-exempt interest income constitutes qualifying income for this purpose. We believe that we are (and our predecessor was) properly treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. However, the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) could challenge our partnership status and we could fail to qualify as a partnership in years that are subject to audit or in future years. If, for any reason, less than 90% of our gross income constitutes qualifying income, our income, deductions, credits and other tax items would not pass through to shareholders, and shareholders would be treated as stockholders in a corporation for federal income tax purposes. In addition, distributions by us to our shareholders would constitute ordinary dividend income, taxable to the shareholders to the extent of our earnings and profits, which would include tax-exempt net income, as well as any taxable net income we may have, reduced by any federal income taxes paid. We would not be able to deduct the payment of these dividends. Also, we would be required to pay federal income tax at regular corporate rates on our net income, with the exception of tax-exempt income, which could adversely impact the value of our common shares. The characterization of certain of our income as exempt for federal income tax purposes depends upon compliance with numerous sections of the Code. Tax-exempt status of the bonds General. On the date of initial issuance of any tax-exempt bond that we hold or have held, directly or indirectly, bond counsel or special tax counsel rendered its opinion to the effect that, based on the law in effect on the date of issuance, interest on such bond is excludable from gross income for U.S. federal income tax 16 Table of Contents purposes. These opinions are subject to customary exceptions, including an exception for any tax-exempts bond (other than a bond the proceeds of which are loaned to a charitable organization described in Section 501(c)(3) of the Code) during any period in which it is held by a “substantial user” of the corresponding property or a person “related” to a “substantial user” within the meaning of the Code. See “—Substantial user limitation.” As of the date of the filing of this Annual Report, we do not have knowledge of any events that may adversely affect the tax-exempt status of our bonds, including any notice of a preliminary or other determination by the IRS that it considers interest on any of such bonds to be includable in gross income. Continuing requirements for tax exemption. The Code establishes certain requirements, which must be met subsequent to the issuance and delivery of a tax-exempt bond for interest on such bond to continue to be excluded from gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Among these continuing requirements are restrictions on the investment and use of the bond proceeds and compliance with a regulatory agreement, arbitrage certificate and/or similar documents. Each issuer of the bonds, as well as the underlying borrowers, has covenanted to comply with these continuing requirements, including any regulatory agreement, arbitrage certificate and similar document. In addition, for tax-exempt bonds the proceeds of which are loaned to a charitable organization described in Section 501(c)(3) of the Code, the continuing exclusion of interest from gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes depends on the continuing exempt status of the charitable organization borrower. Failure to comply with any of these continuing requirements of the Code may cause the interest on a bond to be includable in gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes retroactive to the date of issuance regardless of when such noncompliance occurs. Substantial user limitation. Interest on a bond, other than a bond the proceeds of which are loaned to a charitable organization described in Section 501(c)(3) of the Code, will not be excluded from gross income during any period in which we are a “substantial user” of the underlying property or a person “related” to a “substantial user.” A “substantial user” generally includes any underlying borrower and any person or entity who uses the property on other than a de minimis basis. We or one of our affiliates, as applicable, will be a related person of a substantial user for this purpose if, among other things, we directly, indirectly or by attribution own more than a specified percentage of the stock or capital or profits interests in the substantial user. The attribution rules under federal income tax law are complex and the preceding sentence is not intended to be a complete summary of their application. We have received opinions and/or advice with respect to most of our bonds that we are not a substantial user or a person related thereto. There exist certain levels of indirect common ownership between us and certain of the borrowers under the bonds in which we hold an interest. This common ownership was considered when we received advice that we are not a person related to a substantial user of the property financed by the bonds. Mark K. Joseph, the Chairman of our Board of Directors controls each of the partnerships that is the borrower on 14 separate bonds owned by us (the “Affected Partnerships”). As of the date of the filing of this Annual Report, Mr. Joseph owns, directly or indirectly (taking into account certain attribution rules of the Code) in the aggregate less than 5% of our capital or profits interests. Based in part on a legal opinion delivered to us by our outside counsel (which is based on numerous assumptions and representations by us), we believe that we are not, by virtue of any equity investment in us by any of our officers, a person related to a substantial user of any of the properties financed with the proceeds of a bond relating to an Affected Partnership. Unlike a ruling from the IRS, however, a legal opinion is not binding and no assurance can be given that the conclusion reached will not be contested by the IRS or, if contested, will be sustained by a court. We intend to use commercially reasonable efforts to contest any adverse determination by the IRS on the substantial user issue. Any such contest will result in the incurrence of additional expenses by us. The issue of whether we will be treated as a related person is a highly factual inquiry, which ultimately depends upon our direct or indirect ownership. Because our common shares are publicly traded, there can be no assurance that we or one of our affiliates will not be treated as a related person to a substantial user at a future time. Effect of subsequent events on tax-exempt status. Certain events subsequent to the issuance and delivery of a bond may result in a reissuance of such bond for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which could adversely 17 Table of Contents affect the tax-exempt status of the bonds. Certain of our mortgage bonds are in default. We believe that we have exercised and continue to exercise prudent business practices to enforce our creditor’s rights under the applicable bond documents, including initiating foreclosure proceedings on the mortgaged properties when advisable. A risk exists that the IRS may treat our actions to exercise or not to exercise rights under one or more of the mortgages of defaulted mortgage bonds as constituting a significant modification and, therefore, conclude that these bonds were reissued for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If the IRS were successful in maintaining this position, interest on these bonds probably would be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We have been advised by counsel and, in certain circumstances, have received opinions of counsel, and we believe, that our actions (or failures to act) taken in connection with the default of these bonds would not, under then-published rulings, decisions, statutes and regulations, result in a reissuance of such bonds. Unlike a ruling from the IRS, however, the advice of counsel has no binding effect, and no assurances can be given that the conclusions reached will not be contested by the IRS or, if contested, will be sustained by a court. We will use commercially reasonable efforts to contest any adverse determination by the IRS on this issue. Any such contest will result in the incurrence of additional expenses by us. Investment in other assets. We have been making additional investments in tax-exempt bonds and related assets and entering into hedging transactions such as interest rate swaps. These investments may produce income that is subject to federal income tax, and that may not be qualifying income for purposes of the publicly traded partnership rules. In addition, our investments may include investments in tax-exempt bonds that need to be restructured and remarketed. We could recognize taxable income, gain or loss, upon any such restructuring and remarketing of the tax-exempt bonds even though such restructuring does not result in any cash proceeds to us. In addition, various conditions would have to be met to insure that the restructuring and remarketing of tax-exempt bonds would not cause the loss of the tax-exempt status of interest on such bonds. Taxable income. We also invest in certain assets, and engage in certain operations that generate income that is not exempt from federal income tax, including dividends from our operating subsidiaries and capital gains from the sale of our assets. Further, as described above, the IRS may seek to recharacterize the income on one or more of our tax-exempt bonds as taxable income. We may also have taxable income in the form of market discount. A shareholder’s distributive share of such income will be taxable to the shareholder, regardless of whether an amount of cash equal to such distributive share is actually distributed. Further, although we believe it to be unlikely, shareholders could owe taxes relating to their investments in us that exceed distributions made by us. Non-deductibility of certain interest expense. Generally, our shareholders’ portion of our interest expense is deductible by them to the extent that such expense is incurred in connection with our investment and operating activities. Such interest expense, however, is not deductible by our shareholders to the extent of interest on indebtedness incurred or continued to purchase or carry tax-exempt bonds. Directly or through one or more of our subsidiaries, we have borrowed, and will continue to borrow, funds to finance some of our investments. In addition, certain of our corporate subsidiaries have borrowed funds, which indebtedness has been guaranteed by MuniMae. If the IRS were to successfully assert that the indebtedness of these corporate subsidiaries should be treated as indebtedness of MuniMae, the interest deduction could be disallowed at the MuniMae level as described above, and, furthermore, our corporate subsidiaries would not be allowed to deduct interest expense on the payments made with respect to such indebtedness, thereby increasing the tax liability of these subsidiaries and reducing the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Allocation of our taxable and tax-exempt income. We will use various accounting and reporting conventions to determine each shareholder’s allocable share of income, including any market discount taxable as ordinary income, gain, loss and deductions. Our allocation provisions will be respected for federal income tax purposes only if they are considered to have “substantial economic effect” or are in accordance with the partners’ “interest in the partnership.” There is no assurance that the IRS will agree with our various accounting methods, conventions and allocation provisions. However, we do not expect that any reasonable adjustments which may be required by the IRS would substantially increase the income allocable to shareholders. 18 Table of Contents Tax shelter regulations. Treasury Department regulations require the disclosure of reportable transactions and the maintenance of investor lists for certain potentially abusive tax shelters. Because of the broad scope of these regulations, it is possible that some of our transactions, such as certain transactions subject to confidentiality agreements, certain securitizations and certain sales of certain tax-exempt bonds at a loss, may be subject to the disclosure and list-maintenance requirements. Although we do not believe that any of these transactions would fall within these requirements, the IRS could disagree with our analysis, and significant penalties could be imposed for failure to comply with certain of these requirements. Validity of certain Section 761 elections and related IRS guidance Many of the senior interests in our securitization programs are held by tax-exempt money market funds. Tax-exempt money market funds generally have required that these securitization programs, which are structured as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes, make an election under Section 761 of the Code to opt out of the provisions of subchapter K of the Code. As a result, each holder of an interest in these securitization partnerships separately reports its share of income and deductions of the partnership using the holder’s own accounting method and tax year rather than its distributive share of income and deductions calculated at the partnership level. In 2002 and 2003 the IRS issued a series of revenue procedures, which provided, among other things, that partnerships, such as the ones used to securitize our bonds, do not meet the requirements of Section 761 of the Code. However, the IRS will not challenge a partnership’s or a partner’s tax treatment for partnerships with start-up dates prior to January 1, 2004 that have made a Section 761 election (each a “Pre-2004 Partnership”) if such treatment has been consistent with the Section 761 election and certain other requirements are met. We have been advised by our counsel on these transactions that each Pre-2004 Partnership in which we own an interest has met the requirements set forth in such IRS guidance. In addition, none of the Pre-2004 Partnerships have acquired any new assets that would cause such securitization partnerships to no longer be eligible for the grandfathering rule described above. It is our intention that the Pre-2004 Partnerships continue to meet the requirements of the IRS guidance described above, which include an income test and an expense test. There can be no assurance, however, that unforeseen circumstances might not cause these partnerships to fail one or more of these requirements, which may cause the Pre-2004 Partnerships to have to comply with the requirements of subchapter K of the Code, including any reporting requirements. In addition, there is no assurance that the IRS would not challenge our position that the Pre-2004 Partnerships are eligible partnerships within the meaning of the IRS guidance described above. In the event that one or more of our securitization partnerships were required to comply with the requirements of subchapter K of the Code, it is likely that all of the tax-exempt money market funds which hold the senior interests in those securitizations having a tender option would tender their positions and the remarketing agent would have to try to locate new purchasers, which were not tax-exempt money market funds, for those tendered senior interests. This would probably result in an increase in the distributions to the holders of the senior interests, which would reduce, dollar for dollar, the distributions on the residual interests in the Pre-2004 Partnerships, which are owned by us. The senior interest holders have tender option rights in all of our floating rate securitizations. We also have fixed rate securitizations where they do not have such rights. We have further been advised by special tax counsel for each securitization partnership formed by us since January 1, 2004, that such partnership satisfies the requirements set forth in Revenue Procedure 2003-84 to eliminate the need for the securitization partnership to file a Form 1065 with the IRS or to issue Schedules K 1 to its partners. We have made a valid monthly closing election for each such partnership. It is our intention that any future securitization partnerships continue to meet the requirements of Revenue Procedure 2003-84. 19 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Company Inability to access the capital markets could delay or adversely affect execution of our business plan. Due to the delay in filing this Annual Report. we will be unable for at least one year subsequent to the date hereof, to access the capital markets to raise equity or debt using the SEC’s short-form registration procedures, which may mean delays in registering additional securities for sale. In addition, we may face delays in applying to register our securities if the SEC staff decides to review this report or our subsequent filings. Material weakness may still exist in our internal controls. As discussed below under Item 9A, management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was ineffective as of December 31, 2005 due to material weaknesses with respect to our accounting staff and resources, policies and procedures and our financial reporting process. As discussed under “—Remediation of Material Weaknesses” in Item 9A below, we have made various efforts in order to remediate the material weaknesses that we have identified; however, there cannot be any assurance that these corrective actions will be effective. If we do not effectively execute our plans to strengthen our internal controls including remediation of these identified material weaknesses we may experience reportable conditions and material weaknesses in the future, which, if not remediated, may render us unable to detect in a timely manner misstatements that could occur in our financial statements in amounts that may be material. Such a situation could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Additionally, disclosure of the material weaknesses could reduce the market’s confidence in our financial statements and affect the price of our common shares. Because MuniMae is a holding company and substantially all of our investments and assets are held through our subsidiaries, our shareholders are effectively subordinated to the liabilities and preferred equity interests of our subsidiaries. We hold virtually all of our assets through our subsidiaries. As common equity owner in our subsidiaries, we, and therefore holders of our common shares, are structurally subordinated to the debt obligations and preferred equity interests of our subsidiaries, which at December 31, 2005, aggregated approximately $2.2 billion. In particular, TE Bond Sub has issued $341.0 million of preferred shares to third parties. The holders of TE Bond Sub’s preferred shares have the first right to income and principal of the investments held by it, up to the liquidation preference of the preferred shares plus unpaid distributions upon any liquidation. Additionally, many of our operating subsidiaries are party to credit agreements. In the event of our insolvency, bankruptcy, or liquidation, the creditors and preferred equity holders of our subsidiaries will have priority over the holders of common shares. We have indebtedness and other liabilities that could adversely affect our business and growth prospects. We have indebtedness and other liabilities that could have significant adverse effects on our business. Our indebtedness (excluding non-recourse factored notes payable and mortgage notes payable of $245.9 million and $168.0 million in mandatorily redeemable preferred shares of TE Bond Sub as of December 31, 2005, but including the $172.8 million, in the aggregate, trust preferred securities issued by three unconsolidated subsidiaries of ours as discussed in Note 12, “Subordinate Debentures”) totaled $1.7 billion as of December 31, 2005. In addition, as discussed above, TE Bond Sub has issued $341.0 million of preferred shares to third parties, and the terms of these preferred shares includes covenants that limit our ability to incur indebtedness, among other restrictions. This indebtedness and other liabilities may: • make it more difficult for us to obtain additional financing on favorable terms; • limit our ability to conduct or grow our business due to increased leverage and the existence of restrictive covenants; 20 Table of Contents • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to the repayment of principal and interest on our debt; • make us more vulnerable to economic downturns; and • make it more difficult for us to obtain additional financing on favorable terms due to increased leverage and the existence of covenants that may limit our ability to conduct our business, require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to the repayment of principal and interest on our debt, impose on us operating and financial restrictions, including minimum capital requirements, that may reduce our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions or to grow our business and makes us more vulnerable to economic downturns. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future, we may have to refinance all or a portion of our debt and/or obtain additional financing. There cannot be any assurance that we will be able to obtain refinancing or additional financing on favorable terms, if at all. Most of our assets are pledged as collateral. All of our businesses require significant access to capital, and our capital partners require collateral support for providing capital to us. As a result, we post our assets as collateral to support our borrowings under notes payable, lines of credit, and securitization programs (described above). The majority of our tax-exempt bonds are owned by TE Bond Sub have been placed in or pledged as collateral for securitization programs, notes payable and credit agreements. Substantially all of our construction loans are pledged as collateral to support borrowings under our notes payable and credit agreements (with both financial institutions and our pension fund clients). Certain of our supplemental and permanent loans are pledged as collateral under short-term credit agreements. Certain of our other taxable loans are pledged for securitization and other programs. Our restricted assets (including cash and short-term investments) are pledged as collateral under terms of our interest rate swap contracts, securitization programs, certain guarantees and other obligations. At times, we have posted letters of credit as collateral and pledged our assets or collateral to the letter of credit providers. A portion of our investment in partnerships is pledged as collateral for borrowings under one of our credit agreements. As of December 31, 2005, $2.0 billion, or 63.6%, of our total assets was pledged as collateral, excluding the assets of certain tax credit equity funds and real estate operating partnerships which are consolidated in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board’s Financial Interpretations No. 46 (Revised), “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entitites” (“FIN 46”), but including bonds that have been contributed to securitization trusts as part of our securitization programs. See Note 9, “Guarantees and Collateral” in the notes to our consolidated financials statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report. In the event that we need additional access to capital, we may not have sufficient assets to collateralize future debt obligations. We recently acquired two businesses and reorganized our corporate structure, and the long-term effects of these events will not be measurable for some period of time. During 2005, we completed two acquisitions as described under Part I, Item I. Business “Our Business—Recent Developments—Acquisitions.” In an effort to integrate these new businesses and our existing businesses, beginning at the end of 2005 and continuing through the beginning of 2006, we undertook and completed a reorganization effort. Integration of acquisitions generally involves a number of risks, including the diversion of management’s attention to the assimilation of the operations of businesses, difficulties in the integration of operations and systems and the realization of potential operating synergies, the assimilation and retention of personnel, challenges in retaining the customers of the combined businesses and potential adverse effects on operating results. Although our reorganization effort was designed to simplify our structure, better serve our clients and position us to offer additional services and investment opportunities, the long-term effects of this effort will not be measurable for some period of time. If we are unable to successfully complete these integration and reorganization efforts, our business and its growth prospects could be negatively affected. 21 Table of Contents We are not required to be registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 and would not be able to conduct our business as we currently conduct it if we were required to be registered. We intend to conduct our business so as not to become regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the “1940 Act”). We are exempt from registration because, directly and through majority owned subsidiaries, we are primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate. We have received a legal opinion to this effect from our outside securities counsel. In order to qualify for this exemption, according to current interpretations of the staff of the SEC, we must maintain at least 55% of our assets directly in mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate, with an additional 25% of our assets in real estate-type interests. When we securitize assets, or otherwise invest in a pool of mortgages, all of the certificates issued with respect to the securitization or mortgage pool may be treated as separate from the underlying mortgage loans and, thus, may not be considered as a qualifying interest for purposes of the 55.0% requirement. Similarly, any time we own less than all of a mortgage loan or bond our investment may not be considered a qualifying interest for purposes of the 55% requirement. As a result, our residual securitization interests and some of our bonds and loans are not qualifying interests for purposes of the 55% requirement, although they do qualify for the additional 25% test. The requirement that we maintain 55% of our assets in qualifying interests may inhibit our ability to acquire assets or to securitize additional interests in the future. If we fail to qualify for an exemption from registration as an investment company, either because the composition of our assets changes or because the Commission disagrees with the analysis and opinion of our counsel, which has no binding effect on the Commission, we would be unable to conduct our business as we currently conduct it, which could result in penalties and additional operating costs. In addition, if we fail to qualify for an exemption from registration as an investment company, we may no longer qualify for taxation as a partnership. Additionally, each of our subsidiaries must either not be an investment company or individually qualify for an exemption from registration under the 1940 Act. Even if we maintain our current exemption, if one or more of our subsidiaries becomes subject to registration under the 1940 Act, we would be unable to conduct our business as we currently do. Certain of our officers and directors may have real or potential conflicts of interest with us. We have engaged in various transactions in which Mark K. Joseph, the Chairman of our Board of Directors and our former Chief Executive Officer, has a financial interest. Mr. Joseph, through certain family holding companies, controls a 34.7% interest in The Shelter Group, LLC (the “Shelter Group”). Shelter’s operations include acting as a developer of, and providing property management services primarily to, multi-family residential real estate projects. We have numerous relationships and are a party to various transactions with the Shelter Group. We also have numerous relationships with other affiliates of Mr. Joseph. Additionally, certain of our officers have fiduciary duties to entities that operate for the benefit of constituencies other than our shareholders: • Certain of our officers act as directors of TE Bond Sub. In this capacity, these persons have fiduciary responsibilities to holders of TE Bond Sub’s preferred shares. • Certain of our officers act as trustees for MAHGT and the MMER. In this capacity, these persons have fiduciary responsibilities to MAHGT and MMER and to the pension funds that are members of each of these entities. • Certain of our officers act as directors of MuniMae Foundation, Inc. and MuniMae Affordable Housing, Inc., two non-profit entities organized by and associated with us. In this capacity, these persons have fiduciary responsibilities to these entities. There may be instances where the interests of these entities and their stakeholders, as applicable, do not coincide with, or are adverse to, the interests of the holders of our common shares or MuniMae. For a more detailed discussion of the transactions discussed above, see Note 18, “Related Party Transactions” in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report. 22 Table of Contents We depend on the expertise and service of key members of management and, given the nature of our business, the loss of their services could have a material adverse effect on our business. We and our subsidiaries depend upon the services of Michael L. Falcone, our President and Chief Executive Officer, as well as other individuals who comprise our executive management team. All decisions with respect to our management and control, subject to the supervision of our Board of Directors, are currently made by such persons. The departure or the loss of the services of any of these key officers or a large number of senior management personnel and other employees could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business effectively and our future results of operations. Certain provisions of our operating documents may prohibit a change of control. Our organizational documents contain provisions that may be deemed to have an anti-takeover effect, including provisions providing for staggered terms for the members of our Board of Directors. These provisions are intended to enhance the likelihood of continuity and stability in the composition of our Board of Directors and management and in the policies formulated by the Board of Directors and to discourage an unsolicited takeover if the Board of Directors determines that such a takeover is not in the best interests of our shareholders. These provisions may, however, have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a takeover attempt that a shareholder might consider to be in the shareholder’s best interest, including offers that might result in a premium over market price for the common shares. These provisions may reduce interest in us as a potential acquisition target or reduce the likelihood of a change in our management or voting control without the consent of the then incumbent board of directors. 