ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business The building products industry continues to experience a severe downturn that may continue for an indefinite period into the future. Because the markets for our building products are heavily dependent on the residential construction and remodeling market, our revenues could remain flat or decrease as a result of events outside our control that impact home construction and home improvement activity, including economic factors specific to the building products industry and severe weather. Recent improvements in our end markets may not continue. Since 2007, there has been a severe slowing of new housing starts and in home sales generally. Bank foreclosures have put a large number of homes into the market for sale, effectively limiting some of the incentives to build new homes. The homebuilding industry continues to experience activity well below historical levels. While our residential building products business relies upon the home improvement and remodeling markets as well as new construction, we experienced a slowdown in sales activity beginning in fiscal 2007, and continuing through 2011. While we experienced modest improvement in 2012, limits on credit availability, further foreclosures, depressed home prices, and an oversupply of homes for sale in the market may adversely affect homeowners' and homebuilders' ability or desire to engage in construction or remodeling, resulting in a continued or further slowdown in new construction or remodeling and repair activities. We, like many others in the building products industry, experienced a large drop in orders and a reduction in our margins in 2008 through 2012, relative to prior years. In 2007-2009, we recorded significant goodwill impairments associated with our building products business. While some increased market activity occurred in 2012, we can provide no assurances that the building products market will further improve in the near future. The construction markets are seasonal and generally dependent on temperate weather conditions. The majority of our building products sales are in the residential construction market, which tends to slow down in the winter months. If there are severe weather events such as hurricanes or flooding, or other events outside of our control, construction activities will slow and there may be a negative effect on our revenues. For the winter months of late 2012 and early 2013, our decreased seasonal revenues from HBP and HRI may result in negative cash flow. 19 Table of Contents The financial crisis could continue to negatively affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Market conditions in the mortgage lending and mortgage finance industries deteriorated significantly in 2008 and 2009, which continues to adversely affect the availability of credit for home purchasers and remodelers in 2012 and 2013. The financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets and the going concern threats to banks and other financial institutions have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, including mortgages and home equity loans, and extreme volatility in credit and equity markets. A continuation of poor borrowing markets or a further tightening of mortgage lending or mortgage financing requirements could adversely affect the availability of credit for purchasers of our products and thereby reduce our sales. There could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on our business, including the inability of prospective homebuyers or remodelers to obtain credit to finance the purchase of our building products. These and other similar factors could: •cause delay or decisions to not undertake new home construction or improvement projects, •cause our customers to delay or decide not to purchase our building products, •lead to a decline in customer transactions and our financial performance. Our building products business has been strengthened by the sales growth of new products. If we are unable to offer new products and expand our new product sales, our revenue growth may be adversely affected. Part of our light building products revenues has come from sales in new product categories. New products require innovation, research, capital for development, manufacturing, and acquisition activities. If we are unable to sustain new product sales growth, whether for lack of new product development, access to adequate capital or for other reasons, sales will follow the general industry slowdown in new residential construction and remodeling activity, which will negatively affect our revenue and growth. Demand for our building products may decrease because of changes in customer preferences or because competing products gain price advantages. If demand for our products declines, our revenues will decrease. Our building products are subject to reductions in customer demand for reasons such as changes in preferred home styles and appearances. Many of our resin-based siding accessory products are complementary to an owner's choice of vinyl as a siding material. If sales of vinyl siding decrease, sale of our accessories will also decrease. Similarly, sales of our manufactured architectural stone products are dependent on the continuing popularity of stone finishes. Demand for our building products can also decline if competing products become relatively less expensive. For example, if costs of petroleum-based resins that are used to make vinyl siding and accessories increase faster than the costs of stucco, then stucco products, which we do not sell, will become more attractive from a price standpoint, and our vinyl siding and accessory sales may decrease. Similarly, manufactured architectural stone could lose price competitiveness compared to other finishes. If demand for our building products declines because of changes in the popularity or price advantages of our products, our revenues will be adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents A significant increase in the price of materials used in the production of our building products that cannot be passed on to customers could have a significant adverse effect on our operating income. Furthermore, we depend upon limited sources for certain key production materials, the interruption of which would materially disrupt our ability to manufacture and supply products, resulting in lost revenues and the potential loss of customers. Our manufactured architectural stone and concrete block manufacturing processes require key production materials including cement, manmade and natural aggregates, oxides, packaging materials, and certain types of rubber-based products. The suppliers of these materials may experience capacity or supply constraints in meeting market demand that limit our ability to obtain needed production materials on a timely basis or at expected prices. We have no long-term contracts with such suppliers. We do not currently maintain large inventories of production materials and alternative sources meeting our requirements could be difficult to arrange in the short term. A significant increase in the price of these materials that cannot be passed on to customers could have a significant adverse effect on our cost of sales and operating income. Additionally, our manufacturing and ability to provide products to our customers could be materially disrupted if this supply of materials was interrupted for any reason. Such an interruption and the resulting inability to supply our manufactured architectural stone customers with products could adversely impact our revenues and our relationships with our customers. Certain of our home siding accessory products are manufactured from polypropylene, a large portion of which material is sold to us by a single supplier. The price of polypropylene is primarily a function of manufacturing capacity, demand and the prices of petrochemical feedstocks, crude oil and natural gas liquids. Historically, the market price of polypropylene has fluctuated, and significantly increased in 2011. A significant increase in the price of polypropylene that cannot be passed on to customers could have a significant adverse effect on our cost of sales and operating income. We do not have a long-term contract with our polypropylene supplier. We do not maintain large inventories of polypropylene and alternative sources of polypropylene could be difficult to arrange in the short term. Therefore, our manufacturing and ability to provide products to our customers could be materially disrupted if this supply of polypropylene was interrupted for any reason. Such an interruption and the resulting inability to supply our resin-based siding accessory customers with products could adversely impact our revenues and potentially our relationships with our customers. Interruption of our ability to immediately ship individual or custom product orders could harm our reputation and result in lost revenues if customers turn to other sources for products. Our building products business is highly dependent upon rapid shipments to contractors and distributors of individual orders, a large portion of which orders are manufactured upon demand to meet customer specifications. We produce most of our building products in a small number of key manufacturing plants primarily located in the United States and Mexico. Our manufacturing plants or our systems that track customer orders and production could be disrupted because of natural or manmade disasters, accidents, political unrest, terrorism, crime or other problems. If there is significant interruption of our manufacturing for any reason, we are at risk of harming our reputation for speed and reliability with customers and losing short-term and long-term revenues if customers turn to alternative building product sources. Our siding accessory revenues would be materially adversely affected if we lost one or more of our three major customers. Three customers of our resin-based siding accessory products together accounted for approximately 20% of our revenues for such products in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012, and approximately 5% of our total revenues as of such date. There are no long-term contracts in place with these customers. Accordingly, a loss of or significant decrease in demand from these customers would have a material adverse effect on our business. 21 Table of Contents Our construction materials business has been severely affected by downturns in governmental infrastructure spending. Our fly ash and concrete block products, and to a much lesser extent, our other building products, are used in public infrastructure projects, which include the construction, maintenance, and improvement of highways, bridges, schools, prisons and similar projects. Our business is dependent on the level of federal, state, and local spending on these projects. We cannot be assured of the existence, amount, and timing of appropriations for government spending on these projects. Federal and state budget deficits may continue to severely limit the funding available for infrastructure spending. The lack of available credit has limited the ability of states and other governmental entities such as cities and school districts to issue bonds to finance construction projects. In addition, infrastructure spending continues to be adversely affected by the overall weakness in the economy, which leads to lower tax revenues and state government budget deficits. Shortages in state tax revenues can reduce the amounts spent on state infrastructure projects, even below amounts appropriated by the legislatures. Delays in state infrastructure spending can hurt our business. Further, rising construction and material prices constrain infrastructure construction budgets. If HRI's coal-fueled electric utility industry suppliers fail to provide HRI with high-value coal combustion products ("CCPs") due to environmental regulations or otherwise, HRI's costs could increase and supply could fail to meet customer needs, potentially negatively impacting our profitability or hindering growth. Headwaters Resources relies on the production of CCPs by coal-fueled electric utilities. HRI has occasionally experienced delays and other problems in obtaining high-value CCPs from its suppliers and may in the future be unable to obtain high-value CCPs on the scale and within the time frames required by HRI to meet customers' needs. The coal-burning electric utility and coal mining industries are facing a number of new and pending initiatives by regulatory authorities seeking to address air and water pollution, greenhouse gas emissions and management and disposal of CCPs, as described below. Although our business managing CCPs for utility customers may benefit from opportunities to manage compliance with some new regulatory requirements, increasingly strict requirements generally will increase the cost of doing business and may make coal burning less attractive for utilities. In recent years, a significant number of coal-fueled power plant units have been permanently retired from service. Further, as the price of natural gas has decreased relative to coal, coal-fueled electric utilities have in some instances switched from coal to natural gas. A reduction in the use of coal as fuel causes a decline in the production and availability of fly ash. To the extent the price of natural gas continues to remain relatively low, more coal-fueled electric utilities explore the feasibility of switching from coal to natural gas. Faced with the prospect of more stringent regulations, litigation by environmental groups, and the relatively low cost of natural gas, an increasing number of electric utilities are reducing their portfolio of coal powered energy facilities. If HRI is unable to obtain CCPs or experiences a delay in the delivery of high-value or quality CCPs, HRI will have a reduced supply of CCPs to sell or may be forced to incur significant unanticipated expenses to secure alternative sources or to otherwise maintain supply to customers. Moreover, revenues could be adversely affected if CCP sales volumes cannot be maintained or if customers choose to find alternatives to HRI's products. The EPA has proposed two alternative rules under RCRA to regulate CCPs to address environmental risks from the disposal of CCPs. Either option is likely to have an adverse effect on the cost of managing and disposing of CCPs. The hazardous waste alternative is likely to have an adverse effect on beneficial use and sales of CCPs and HRI's relationship with utilities. In June 2010 the EPA proposed two alternative rules to regulate CCPs generated by electric utilities and independent power producers. One proposed option would classify CCPs disposed of in 22 Table of Contents surface impoundments or landfills as "special wastes" subject to federal hazardous waste regulation under Subtitle C of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ("RCRA"). The second proposed option would instead regulate CCPs as non-hazardous waste under Subtitle D of RCRA, with states retaining the lead authority on regulating their handling, storage and disposal. Under both options, the current exemption from hazardous waste regulation for CCPs that are recycled for beneficial uses would remain in effect. Both rule options are controversial. In October 2011, EPA issued a request for additional comments on its coal ash rule options, specifically seeking (1) chemical constituent data from CCPs; (2) facility and waste management unit data; (3) additional information on alleged instances of site contamination from CCP disposal; (4) adequacy of state regulatory programs; and (5) information on beneficial uses of CCPs. During 2012, environmental groups, members of industry (including HRI) and other parties filed suit against the EPA alleging that the EPA has failed to timely take action on regulations applicable to the disposal of coal ash. It does not appear likely that the EPA will issue a final rule before 2014, unless required to do so by the court. Even though both EPA options continue to exempt beneficial uses of CCPs from hazardous waste rules, users of fly ash and other CCPs are likely to attach a stigma to material that is identified as "hazardous waste" and may seek alternative products. Responding to regulatory uncertainty created by EPA's proposal, the U.S. House of Representatives approved bipartisan legislation on September 21, 2012 in H.R. 3409, the "Stop the War on Coal Act." The Act is a combination of five bills including H.R. 2273, the "Coal Residuals Reuse and Management Act," which would block the EPA from regulating coal ash as a hazardous waste and grant the states a primary role in managing CCP disposal, with federal minimum requirements and supervision. The Act also bars the EPA from issuing rules regulating stationary source greenhouse gas emissions (H.R. 910) and requires economic assessments of several EPA rules (H.R. 2401). The Act has not been addressed in the Senate and the White House has stated that the President will veto the Act if passed. Senate bill S. 3512, the "Coal Ash Recycling and Oversight Act of 2012" is also in process. This Senate bill would eliminate EPA's authority to regulate CCPs and to review or enforce state-regulated coal ash programs. The bill was referred to committee in August, 2012. At this time, it is not possible to predict what form the final legislation and/or regulations will take. However, whether regulated by EPA or expanded state programs, the complexity and cost of managing and disposing of CCPs could increase. If the EPA is not barred by legislation and determines to regulate CCPs as hazardous waste under RCRA Subtitle C, CCPs would become subject to a variety of regulations governing the handling, transporting, storing and disposing of hazardous waste, increasing regulatory burden and costs of fly ash management for the utility industry and for HRI. The regulations could require modifications to or closure of disposal facilities, modifications to equipment used to handle, store and transport fly ash, additional training for personnel, new permitting requirements, increased recordkeeping and reporting, as well as increased disposal costs at landfills. There can be no guarantee that such regulations would not reduce or eliminate our supply or our ability to market fly ash and other CCPs which would have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition. Regulation of CCPs as hazardous waste would likely have an adverse effect on beneficial use and sales of CCPs and HRI's relationship with utilities if users of fly ash and other CCPs seek alternative products to avoid material that is identified as "hazardous waste". Moreover, some environmental groups are urging the EPA to restrict some beneficial uses of CCPs, such as in concrete, road base and soil stabilization, alleging contaminants may leach into the environment. This could reduce the demand for fly ash and other CCPs which would have an adverse effect on HRI's revenues. In addition, regulation of CCPs as hazardous waste would likely cause utilities and power producers to impose greater restrictions on the use of CCPs by HRI and its customers. Restrictions imposed by utilities may narrow the types of potential customers to which HRI can market CCPs and limit their uses of CCPs, reducing HRI's sales opportunities. Utilities are also likely to negotiate to shift actual or perceived liabilities associated with CCPs and their use to HRI through more onerous contract and indemnity 23 Table of Contents obligations. This could harm HRI's business by reducing the number of CCP management contracts or by increasing HRI's exposure to the contingent risks associated with any new regulation of CCPs. HRI has managed numerous large scale CCP disposal projects, primarily for coal fueled utilities and power producers. In addition, CCPs have beneficial use for road base, soil stabilization, and as large scale fill in contact with the ground. If the EPA decides to regulate CCPs as hazardous waste, HRI, together with CCP generators, could be subject to very expensive environmental cleanup and other possible claims and liabilities. EPA adoption of more stringent regulations governing coal combustion, water discharges and air emissions, or coal mining would likely have an adverse effect on the cost, beneficial use and sales of CCPs. Coal-fueled electric utilities are highly regulated under federal and state law. HRI relies on the production of CCPs by coal-fueled electric utilities. HRI has occasionally experienced delays and other problems in obtaining high-value CCPs from its suppliers and may in the future be unable to obtain high-value CCPs on the scale and within the time frames required by HRI to meet customers' needs. Environmental regulation affecting the coal industry is ever-evolving, and federal and state regulation in recent years has imposed more stringent requirements regarding emission of air pollutants and other toxic chemicals, reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and water quality impacts from coal mining operations. See "Business—Regulation." To meet emissions levels, utilities have been required to make changes such as changing their fuel sources, installing expensive pollution control equipment and, in some cases, shutting down plant units. These requirements can impact the quantity and quality of CCPs produced at power plants, can add to the costs of operating power plants and could make coal a less attractive fuel alternative in the planning and building of utility power plants in the future. Although our business managing CCPs for utility customers may benefit from opportunities to manage compliance with certain of the new regulatory requirements, increasingly strict requirements generally will increase the cost of doing business and may make coal burning less attractive for utilities. Faced with the prospect of more stringent regulation, litigation by environmental groups, and a decrease in the cost of natural gas, some electric utilities are reducing their portfolio of coal powered energy facilities. For example, in the past year, multiple companies announced plans to close coal-fired power plant units, or dropped plans to open new plants, citing the cost of compliance with pending or new environmental regulations. The outcome of these developments cannot be predicted. To date, our business has not had a significant impact from plant closures because our national footprint allows us to move fly ash to satisfy demand; however, if the rate of coal-powered plant closures increases, we may be adversely affected in the future. If HRI is unable to obtain CCPs or if it experiences a delay in the delivery of high-value or quality CCPs, HRI will have a reduced supply of CCPs to sell or may be forced to incur significant unanticipated expenses to secure alternative sources or to otherwise maintain supply to customers. More stringent regulation of coal combustion emissions, water discharges and cooling water intake structures and mining operations could increase the cost of coal and coal combustion for utilities and thus reduce coal use, adversely impacting the availability and cost of fly ash for HRI's CCP activities. Revenues could be adversely affected if CCP sales volumes or pricing cannot be maintained. HRI primarily sells fly ash for use in concrete; if use of fly ash does not increase, HRI may not grow. HRI's growth has been and continues to be dependent upon the increased use of fly ash in the production of concrete. HRI's marketing initiatives emphasize the environmental, cost and performance advantages of partially replacing portland cement with fly ash in the production of concrete. If HRI's marketing initiatives are not successful, HRI may not be able to grow. 24 Table of Contents Further, utilities are switching fuel sources, changing boiler operations and introducing activated carbon and ammonia into the exhaust gas stream in an effort to decrease costs and/or to meet increasingly stringent emissions control regulations. All of these factors can have a negative effect on fly ash quantity and quality, including an increase in the amount of unburned carbon in fly ash and the presence of ammonia slip. We are attempting to address these challenges with the development and/or commercialization of two technologies: carbon fixation, which pre-treats unburned carbon particles in fly ash in order to minimize the particles' adverse effects, and ammonia slip mitigation, which counteracts the impact of ammonia contaminants in fly ash. Decreased quantity and quality of fly ash may impede the use of fly ash in the production of concrete, which would adversely affect HRI's revenue. If the EPA decides to regulate CCPs as hazardous waste, there would likely be an adverse effect on beneficial use and sales of CCPs and HRI's relationship with utilities. Even though the EPA proposes to continue to exempt beneficial uses of CCPs from hazardous waste rules, users of fly ash and other CCPs are likely to attach a stigma to material that is identified as "hazardous waste" and may seek alternative products. Moreover, some environmental groups are urging the EPA to restrict some beneficial uses of CCPs, such as in concrete, road base, and soil stabilization, alleging contaminants may leach into the environment. This could reduce the demand for fly ash and other CCPs which would have an adverse effect on our CCP revenues. If portland cement or competing replacement products are available at lower prices than fly ash, our sales of fly ash as a replacement for portland cement in concrete products could suffer, causing a decline in HRI's revenues and net income. Approximately 72% of HRI's revenues for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 were derived from the sale of fly ash as a partial replacement for portland cement in concrete products. At times, there may be an overcapacity of cement in regional markets, causing potential price decreases. The markets for HRI's products are regional, in part because of the costs of transporting CCPs, and HRI's business is affected by the availability and cost of competing products in the specific regions where it conducts business. If competing products become available at prices equal to or less than fly ash, HRI's revenues and net income could decrease. Because demand for CCPs sold by HRI is affected by fluctuations in weather and construction cycles, HRI's revenues and net income could decrease significantly as a result of unexpected or severe weather. HRI manages and markets CCPs and uses CCPs to produce building products. Utilities produce CCPs year-round. In comparison, sales of CCPs are generally keyed to construction market demands that tend to follow national trends in construction with predictable increases during temperate seasons and decreases during periods of severe weather. HRI's CCP sales have historically reflected these seasonal trends, with the largest percentage of total annual revenues being realized in the quarters ended June 30 and September 30. Low seasonal demand normally results in reduced shipments and revenues in the quarters ended December 31 and March 31. The seasonal impact on HRI's revenue, together with the seasonal impact on HBP revenues may result in negative cash flows for the winter months of 2013. We may not be able to successfully sell our coal cleaning business and we may incur substantial additional losses in the process. Our coal cleaning facilities have consistently operated at a loss. In 2010, 2011 and 2012 we recorded non-cash impairment charges relating to the value of certain coal cleaning assets because of weaker than expected cash flow projections. In September 2011, we adopted a plan to sell our coal cleaning business, which has been presented as a discontinued operation, and the related assets and liabilities have been reflected as held for sale in the September 30, 2011and 2012 balance sheets. In 25 Table of Contents 2012 we sold one coal cleaning facility and in October 2012 sold two more facilities and executed a contract to sell the eight remaining facilities. However, there is no assurance that HES will successfully sell its coal cleaning assets. After sale, HES will have significant contingent liabilities to the purchasers, if our tax and other representations and warranties prove to be untrue, and to third parties, if purchasers fail to fulfill their assumed obligations. While we work to complete the sale of the coal cleaning assets, HES incurs substantial expenses associated with maintaining operations, shutting down additional facilities, resolving existing relationships with coal companies, landowners, customers, and other parties, and attempting to preserve asset value. If the IRS is successful in its challenges of Section 45 refined coal tax credits claimed by us, or other tax positions we have taken, our future profitability will be adversely affected. Section 45 provides a tax credit for the production and sale of refined coal. Based on the language of Section 45 and available public guidance, HES believes that its coal cleaning facilities are eligible for Section 45 refined coal tax credits. However, the ability to claim tax credits is dependent upon a number of conditions, including, but not limited to: •Placing facilities in service on or before December 31, 2008; •Producing a fuel from coal that is lower in NOx and either SOx or mercury emissions by the specified amount as compared to the emissions of the feedstock; •Producing a fuel at least 50% more valuable than the feedstock; and •Selling the fuel to a third-party for the purpose of producing steam. In September 2010, the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") issued Notice 2010-54 ("Notice") giving some public guidance about how this tax credit program will be administered and some of the restrictions on the availability of such credits. Among other things, the Notice requires that for coal cleaning operations to qualify for Section 45 credits, the facilities must have been put into service for the purpose of producing refined coal and must produce refined coal from waste coal. In addition, the Notice gives guidance about the testing that must be conducted to certify the emissions reduction required by Section 45. We have recorded and carried forward Section 45 refined coal tax credit benefits totaling approximately $21.0 million through September 30, 2012. The IRS has completed an audit of Headwaters concerning its Section 45 tax credits for 2007 and 2008. A tentative agreement has been reached with the IRS regarding its audit of 2009. There are multiple bases upon which the IRS may challenge our tax credits, including whether our facilities were placed in service for the purpose of producing refined coal, whether our facilities use waste coal as a feedstock, and whether our testing methods and certifications adequately demonstrate the required emissions reductions. In addition, Congress may modify or repeal Section 45 so that these tax credits may not be available in the future. If HES is not successful in claiming and defending Section 45 credits earned while we owned the coal cleaning facilities, our future profitability will be materially adversely affected. As noted above, we reached a tentative agreement with the IRS for the 2009 tax year. We are subject to audit by the IRS for 2010 and succeeding years. In addition, we are subject to state tax authority audits with respect to state taxes. The calculation of tax liabilities involves uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations and unique facts. The IRS is investigating our federal tax positions on a number of issues, including coal cleaning capital asset depreciation, as described in Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements. The audit of our federal and state tax returns could have a large effect on the taxes we might ultimately owe. If our estimates of tax liabilities prove to be less than the ultimate tax assessments by the IRS or state authorities, we could owe significantly more tax than is expected, resulting in additional tax expense, adversely affecting our future profitability and liquidity. 26 Table of Contents Our information technology consolidation and restructuring initiatives may not result in the intended benefits and could harm our business. We have taken steps to achieve improvements in our business, including reorganization and/or reduction of some management, and changes in manufacturing, marketing, distribution, pricing and sales of certain products, including our three manufactured architectural stone brands. In addition, we are in the process of consolidating our accounting, product order and fulfillment, and other information technology platforms. We may not realize the expected improvements to our business if we have made erroneous assumptions about our ability to successfully implement these changes, the demand for our products, and our ability to service that demand. If we are not successful, our information technology consolidation and restructuring efforts may be detrimental to our financial reporting, controls, service to customers and revenues which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our new businesses, processes and technologies may not be successfully developed, operated and marketed, which could affect our future profitability. Although we have developed or acquired new businesses, processes and technologies (e.g. heavy oil upgrading), commercialization of these businesses and technologies is in early stages. Commercial success of these new businesses and technologies will depend on our ability to enter into agreements with customers, licensees and/or joint ventures to further develop and provide adequate funding to commercialize the new businesses and technologies, as well as to develop markets for the products and technologies. We may not be able to enter into these agreements and adequate funding may not be available to fully develop and successfully commercialize our new businesses and technologies. Further, we may not be able to profitably operate our new businesses or market our technologies or products produced from them. For example, the sale of our heavy oil upgrading products is dependent on refineries operating under conditions suitable to the performance of our catalyst precursor products, which conditions may not be available. These processes and technologies also may become less competitive and more costly as a result of increasing efforts to reduce use of fossil fuels and more stringent environmental regulation, including efforts to control greenhouse gas emissions. Our growth requires continued investment of capital. If we cannot invest additional capital into new and existing businesses, we may not be able to sustain or increase our growth. Our operations require both maintenance and growth capital. A key part of our business strategy has been to expand through complementary acquisitions, which has required significant capital. In addition, commercialization of our energy technologies, such as heavy oil upgrading, has required and will require significant financial commitments. Our utility services business will require financial commitments such as performance bonds in order to grow and we have limited bonding capacity. Our building products and CCP businesses also require significant capital expenditures. We estimate that our capital expenditure needs for fiscal 2013 will be approximately $30 million. If we do not have sufficient capital to make equity investments in new projects and/or are limited by financial covenants from doing so, our growth may suffer. Many of our competitors, including large businesses in the light building products, CCP management and heavy oil upgrading industries, have greater financial strength than us and may be able to enter our markets, make acquisitions and take advantage of other potential growth opportunities before we can. We could face potential product liability claims relating to products we manufacture. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of any of our products results in personal injury or property damage. For example, if the EPA decides to designate fly ash as a special hazardous waste, we may face an increase in claims related to products which incorporate this material. In the event that any of our products proves to be defective, among other things, we may be responsible for damages related to any defective products and we may be 27 Table of Contents required to recall or redesign such products. Because of the long useful life of our products, it is possible that latent defects might not appear for years. HBP does not control the use or installation of its light building products. Improper use or installation can result in claims of defective products against HBP. These claims can be difficult and expensive to defend. Any insurance we maintain may not continue to be available on terms acceptable to us or such coverage may not be adequate for liabilities actually incurred. Further, any claim or product recall could result in adverse publicity against us, which could cause our sales to decline or increase our costs. Insurance for such product liability claims could become much more expensive or more difficult to obtain or might not be available at all. Inappropriate use of CCPs can result in faulty end products. In some cases, the products marketed by HRI consist of a mixture of client-supplied materials, including CCPs. HRI does not in all cases control the quality of the final end product, but may share such control with the manufacturer of the ingredient materials. Therefore, there is a risk of liability regarding the quality of the materials and end products marketed by HRI. Significant increases in energy and transportation costs that cannot be passed on to customers could have a significant adverse effect on operating income. We purchase a significant amount of energy from various sources to conduct our operations, including fossil fuels and electricity for production of building products and diesel fuel for distribution of our products and for production-related vehicles. In recent years, fuel cost increases have increased truck and rail carrier transportation costs for our products. At times severe weather, including flooding, has reduced or eliminated access to roads and railways leaving us with more expensive transportation alternatives. Transportation cost increases have in the past and may in the future adversely affect the results of our operations and our financial condition. Transportation prices and availability of all petroleum products are subject to political, economic and market factors that are generally outside of our control. We operate in industries subject to significant environmental regulation, and compliance with and changes in regulation could add significantly to the costs of conducting business. Our CCP operations and our customers and licensees are subject to federal, state, local and international environmental regulations that impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the air and water and establish standards for the treatment, storage and disposal of waste products, and impose liability for the costs of remediating contaminated sites, which add to the costs of doing business and expose us to potential damage claims and fines for non-compliance. If the costs of environmental compliance increase for any reason, we may not be able to pass on these costs to customers. In order to establish and operate heavy oil upgrading facilities and power plants and operations to collect and transport CCPs, we and our customers have obtained various state and local permits and must comply with processes and procedures that have been approved by regulatory authorities. These environmental requirements and any failure to comply could give rise to substantial environmental liabilities and damage claims and to substantial fines and penalties. Our light building products manufacturing operations are also subject to environmental regulations and permit requirements. If we cannot obtain or maintain required environmental permits for our existing and planned manufacturing facilities in a timely manner or at all, we may be subject to additional costs and/or fines. Our research and development activities involve coal, oil, chemicals and energy technologies, including liquefaction of coal. As a result, petroleum and other regulated materials have been and are present in and on our properties. Regulatory noncompliance or accidental discharges, fires, or explosions, in spite of safeguards, could create environmental or safety liabilities. Therefore, our operations entail risk of environmental damage and injury to people, and we could incur liabilities in the future arising from the discharge of pollutants into the environment, waste disposal practices, or accidents, as well as changes in enforcement policies or newly discovered conditions. 28 Table of Contents We are involved in litigation and claims for which we incur significant costs and are exposed to significant liability. We are a party to some significant legal proceedings and are subject to potential claims regarding operation of our business. These proceedings will require that we incur substantial costs, including attorneys' fees, managerial time and other personnel resources and costs in pursuing resolution, and adverse resolution of these proceedings could result in our payment of damages, materially adversely affect our income and reserves and damage our reputation. With respect to the cases referred to in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements, the amount of damages described below is being sought by the counter parties. To date, we have reserved approximately $18.0 million in the aggregate for potential damages in these matters. Boynton. In 1998, Headwaters entered into a technology purchase agreement with James G. Davidson and Adtech, Inc. The transaction transferred certain patent and royalty rights to Headwaters related to a synthetic fuel technology invented by Davidson. In 2002, Headwaters received a summons and complaint from the United States District Court for the Western District of Tennessee filed by former stockholders of Adtech alleging, among other things, fraud, conspiracy, constructive trust, conversion, patent infringement and interference with contract arising out of the 1998 technology purchase agreement entered into between Davidson and Adtech on the one hand, and Headwaters on the other. All claims against Headwaters were dismissed in pretrial proceedings except claims of conspiracy and constructive trust. The District Court certified a class comprised of substantially all purported stockholders of Adtech, Inc. The plaintiffs sought compensatory damages from Headwaters in the approximate amount of $43.0 million plus prejudgment interest and punitive damages. In June 2009, a jury reached a verdict in a trial in the amount of $8.7 million for the eight named plaintiffs representing a portion of the class members. In September 2010, a jury reached a verdict after a trial for the remaining 46 members of the class in the amount of $7.3 million. In April 2011, the trial court entered an order for a constructive trust in the amount of approximately $16.0 million (the same amount as the sum of the previous jury verdicts), denied all other outstanding motions, and entered judgment against Headwaters in the total approximate amount of $16.0 million, in accordance with the verdicts and order on constructive trust. The court denied all post-judgment motions by the parties. Headwaters filed a supersedeas bond and a notice of appeal from the judgment to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. Plaintiffs also filed notice of an appeal. The Federal Circuit transferred the case to the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit on the basis of jurisdiction. Appellate briefing is underway. Because the resolution of the litigation is uncertain, legal counsel and management cannot express an opinion as to the ultimate amount, if any, of Headwaters' liability. EPA. In April 2012, Headwaters Resources, Inc. (HRI) filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia against the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). The complaint alleges that the EPA has failed to review, and where necessary, revise applicable RCRA subtitle D regulations applicable to the disposal of coal ash within the timeframe required by statute. Other parties also have initiated litigation against the EPA alleging the same (and other) failures of the EPA to perform its duties regarding coal ash disposal regulations. HRI's complaint seeks declaratory relief and should provide HRI an opportunity to represent its interests before the court makes orders with respect to EPA rulemaking at issue in the case. The court has consolidated HRI's case with related actions brought by other parties. The parties are briefing cross-motions for summary judgment for the court's consideration in early 2013. Because the resolution of the litigation is uncertain, legal counsel and management cannot express an opinion as to the ultimate outcome. Fentress Families Trust. VFL Technology Corporation (VFL), acquired by HRI in 2004, provides services related to fly ash management to Virginia Electric and Power Company. In February 2012, 29 Table of Contents 383 plaintiffs, most of whom are residents living in the City of Chesapeake, Virginia, filed a complaint in the State of Virginia Chesapeake Circuit Court against 15 defendants, including Virginia Electric and Power Company, and certain other persons associated with the Battlefield Golf Course, including owners, developers, contractors, and others, including VFL and Headwaters, alleging causes of action for nuisance and negligence. The complaint alleges that fly ash used to construct the golf course was carried in the air and contaminated water exposing plaintiffs to dangerous chemicals and causing property damage. Plaintiffs' complaint seeks injunctive relief and damages of approximately $850.0 million for removal and remediation of the fly ash and the water supply, $1.9 billion for vexation, $8.0 million and other unspecified amounts for personal injuries, and $55.0 million as damages to properties, plus prejudgment interest, attorney fees, and costs. In a related case, other plaintiffs have filed a separate lawsuit asserting the same claims against the same defendants claiming additional damages totaling approximately $307.2 million. VFL and Headwaters have not yet been served with either complaint. These new cases are based on substantially the same alleged circumstances asserted in complaints filed by the plaintiffs in 2009 and voluntarily dismissed in 2010. HRI has filed insurance claims, which are the subject of dispute and a separate lawsuit, although insurance is paying for the defense of the underlying case. Plaintiffs' total claims exceed the potential limits of insurance available to HRI. Because resolution of the litigation is uncertain, legal counsel and management cannot express an opinion as to the ultimate amount, if any, of HRI's liability, or the insurers' obligation to indemnify HRI against loss, if any. Neil Wallace. The plaintiff, Neil Wallace, filed a complaint in the State of Virginia Chesapeake Circuit Court against Virginia Electric and Power Company and related entities (VEPCO), VFL and Headwaters alleging personal injuries arising from exposure to the fly ash used to build the golf course described in the Fentress Families Trust case. Plaintiff claims that he worked on the golf course site from 2002-2007 and that as a result, he contracted kidney cancer. Plaintiff was the managing member and corporate counsel of CPM Virginia, LLC (CPM). CPM was a fly ash manager for VEPCO and was an owner and developer of the golf course. Plaintiff claims damages of $10.0 million. VFL and HRI have not yet been served with the complaint. HRI expects that its insurers will defend and indemnify HRI and VFL. Because resolution of the litigation is uncertain, legal counsel and management cannot express an opinion as to the ultimate amount, if any, of HRI's liability, or the insurers' obligation to indemnify HRI against loss, if any. Oxford Mining Company. In 2007, Covol Fuels No. 2, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Headwaters Energy Services Corp. (Covol), entered into an agreement for the sale of coal produced by Covol from certain operations in Kentucky. In 2009, the agreement was assigned by the buyer to Oxford Mining Company—Kentucky, LLC (Oxford). Covol claims that the economically recoverable source coal for the agreement is exhausted and that as a result, the agreement has terminated. In October 2011, Covol filed a petition in the Franklin Circuit Court of the Commonwealth of Kentucky seeking declaratory judgment that the agreement has terminated. In December 2011, Oxford answered, denying that the agreement was terminated and requesting that the court dismiss Covol's petition. Oxford also filed a counterclaim alleging that Covol is in breach of the agreement for failing to provide coal and that Oxford's present and anticipated damages are estimated to be at least $5.0 million, in addition to its costs associated with the litigation, including attorneys' fees. Covol denies the counterclaim. Because the resolution of the litigation is uncertain, legal counsel and management cannot express an opinion as to the ultimate amount, if any, of Covol's liability. Reechcraft. In 2006, Tapco International Corporation entered into a contract with Reechcraft, Inc. for Reechcraft to manufacture and supply sheet metal bending tools, accessories for those tools, and specialized scaffolding systems to Tapco. Reechcraft claims that Tapco failed to purchase the quantity of products required under the contract. In July 2012, Reechcraft filed a demand for 30 Table of Contents arbitration with the American Arbitration Association in Chicago, Illinois, claiming damages of $3.1 million, in addition to interest, costs, and attorneys' fees. Tapco denied Reechcraft's allegations. Because the resolution of the arbitration is uncertain, legal counsel and management cannot express an opinion as to the ultimate amount, if any, of Tapco's liability. Archstone. Archstone owns an apartment complex in Westbury, New York. Archstone alleges that moisture penetrated the building envelope and damaged moisture sensitive parts of the buildings which began to rot and grow mold. In 2008, Archstone evicted its tenants and began repairing the 21 apartment buildings. Also in 2008, Archstone filed a complaint in the Nassau County Supreme Court of the State of New York against the prime contractor and its performance bond surety, the designer, and Eldorado Stone, LLC which supplied architectural stone that was installed by others during construction. The prime contractor then sued over a dozen subcontractors who in turn sued others. Archstone claims as damages approximately $36.0 million in repair costs, $15.0 million in lost lease payments, $7.0 million paid to tenants who sued Archstone, and $7.0 million for class action defense fees, plus prejudgment interest and attorney's fees. Eldorado Stone answered denying liability and tendered the matter to its insurers who are paying for the defense of the case. The court has dismissed all claims against Eldorado Stone, except the claim of negligence, and the parties are pursuing an interlocutory appeal of the order of dismissal. Meanwhile, discovery is underway. Because the resolution of the action is uncertain, legal counsel and management cannot express an opinion concerning the likely outcome of this matter, the liability of Eldorado Stone, if any, or the insurers' obligation to indemnify Eldorado Stone against loss, if any. Headwaters Building Products Matters. There are litigation and pending and threatened claims made against certain subsidiaries of Headwaters Building Products (HBP), a division within Headwaters' light building products segment, with respect to several types of exterior finish systems manufactured and sold by its subsidiaries for application by contractors on residential and commercial buildings. Typically, litigation and these claims are defended by such subsidiaries' insurance carriers. The plaintiffs or claimants in these matters have alleged that the structures have suffered damage from latent or progressive water penetration due to some alleged failure of the building product or wall system. One claim involves alleged defects associated with components of an Exterior Insulating and Finish System (EIFS) which was produced for a limited time (through 1997) by the HBP subsidiaries. Other claims involve alleged liabilities associated with certain stucco, mortar, aerated concrete block and architectural stone products which are produced and sold by certain subsidiaries of HBP. The Archstone case summarized above is an example of these types of claims. Typically, the claims cite damages for alleged personal injuries and punitive damages for alleged unfair business practices in addition to asserting more conventional damage claims for alleged economic loss and damage to property. To date, claims made against such subsidiaries have been paid by their insurers, with the exception of deductibles or self-insured retentions, although such insurance carriers typically have issued "reservation of rights" letters. There is no guarantee of insurance coverage or continuing coverage. These and future proceedings may result in substantial costs to HBP, including attorneys' fees, managerial time and other personnel resources and costs. Adverse resolution of these proceedings could have a materially negative effect on HBP's business, financial condition, and results of operation, and its ability to meet its financial obligations. Although HBP carries general and product liability insurance, HBP cannot assure that such insurance coverage will remain available, that HBP's insurance carrier will remain viable, or that the insured amounts will cover all future claims in excess of HBP's uninsured retention. Future rate increases may also make such insurance uneconomical for HBP to maintain. In addition, the insurance policies maintained by HBP exclude claims for damages resulting from exterior insulating finish systems, or EIFS, that have manifested after March 2003. Because resolution of 31 Table of Contents the litigation and claims is uncertain, legal counsel and management cannot express an opinion as to the ultimate amount, if any, of HBP's liability. Other. Headwaters and its subsidiaries are also involved in other legal proceedings that have arisen in the normal course of business. We intend to vigorously defend and pursue our rights in these actions. We do not currently believe that the outcome of these actions will have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flow or financial position; however, it is possible that a change in the estimates of probable liability could occur, and the change could be significant. We have significant competition in our industries which may cause demand for our products and services to decrease. We experience significant competition in all of our segments and geographic regions. A failure to compete effectively or increased competition could lead to price cuts, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, which could decrease our profitability. Many of our competitors have greater financial, management and other resources than we have and may be able to take advantage of acquisitions and other opportunities more readily. In certain instances we must compete on the basis of superior products and services rather than price, thereby increasing the costs of marketing our services to remain competitive. See "Business," for more information on the competition faced by us in each of our segments. Our business strategy to grow through acquisitions may result in integration costs and poor performance. In recent years, we have not engaged in major acquisitions. However, an aspect of our business strategy continues to be the pursuit of growth through acquisitions of products or complementary businesses. While our October 2009 asset based revolving loan agreement ("ABL Revolver") and our March 2011 7-5/8% senior secured notes ("Senior Notes") limit our ability to engage in acquisitions, to the extent we engage in acquisitions, our ability to successfully implement the transactions is subject to a number of risks, including difficulties in identifying acceptable acquisition candidates, consummating acquisitions on favorable terms and obtaining adequate financing, which may adversely affect our ability to develop new products and services and to compete in our markets. If we do not successfully integrate newly acquired businesses with our existing businesses, we may not realize the expected benefits of the acquisitions, and the resources and attention required for successful integration may interrupt the business activities of acquired businesses and our existing businesses. Successful management and integration of acquisitions are subject to a number of risks, including difficulties in assimilating acquired operations, loss of key employees, diversion of management's attention from core business operations, assumption of contingent liabilities, incurrence of potentially significant write-offs, and various employee issues, such as issues related to human resource benefit plans, and an increase in employment and discrimination claims and claims for workers' compensation. Each business acquisition also requires us to expand our operational and financial systems, which increases the complexity of our information technology systems. Implementation of controls, systems and procedures may be costly and time-consuming and may not be effective. If our internal controls over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act are not adequate, our reputation could be harmed and we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal penalties or stockholder litigation. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the "Sarbanes-Oxley Act") requires that we evaluate and report on our system of internal controls. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal penalties or stockholder 32 Table of Contents litigation. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports could harm our business. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act also requires that our independent auditors report on our system of internal controls. We have documented and tested our system of internal controls to provide the basis for our reports in our relevant filings with the SEC. The growth and diversification of our business through acquisitions complicates the process of developing, documenting, maintaining and testing internal controls. No assurance can be given that in the future there may not be significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that would be required to be reported. Unauthorized use of or infringement claims regarding our proprietary intellectual property could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. We rely primarily on a combination of trade secrets, patents, copyright and trademark laws and confidentiality procedures to protect our intellectual property. Despite these precautions, unauthorized third parties may misappropriate, infringe upon, copy or reverse engineer portions of our technology or products. Identification of unauthorized users of our intellectual property can be very difficult and enforcement and defense of rights can be costly. Manufactured architectural stone competitors and heavy oil upgrading competitors operate in foreign countries where we may not detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property or where enforcement may be difficult. We do not know if current or future patent applications will be issued with the scope of the claims sought, if at all, or whether any patents issued will be challenged or invalidated. Our business could be harmed if we infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. We have been, and may be in the future, notified that we may be infringing intellectual property rights possessed by third parties. If any such claims are asserted against us, we may seek to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements. There is a risk in these situations that no license will be available or that a license will not be available on reasonable terms, precluding our use of the applicable technology. Alternatively, we may decide to litigate such claims or attempt to design around the patented technology. In addition, patents may expire before they are a commercial success. To date, while no single patent or trademark is material to our business and the issues described in this paragraph have not resulted in significant cost or had an adverse impact on our business, future actions could be costly and would divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. We are conducting business in China and other foreign countries where intellectual property and other laws, as well as business conditions, may leave our intellectual property, products and technologies vulnerable to duplication by competitors and create uncertainties as to our legal rights against such competitors' actions. We have and expect to continue to use, license or otherwise make our technology, including our nanotechnology, heavy oil upgrading and coal liquefaction technology, available to persons and entities in China and other foreign countries. There is a risk that foreign intellectual property laws will not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as under United States laws, leaving us vulnerable to competitors who may attempt to copy our products, processes or technologies. Further, the legal system of China is based on statutory law. Under this system, prior court decisions may be cited as persuasive authority but do not have binding precedential effect. Since 1979, the Chinese government has been developing a comprehensive system of commercial laws and considerable progress has been made in the promulgation of laws and regulations dealing with economic matters, such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. As these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively new and because of the limited volume of published case law and judicial interpretations and the non-binding nature of prior court decisions, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws, regulations and legal requirements involve some uncertainty. These uncertainties could limit the legal protection or recourse available to us. In addition, dependence on foreign licenses and conducting foreign operations may subject us to increased risk from political change, ownership issues or repatriation or currency exchange concerns. 33 Table of Contents We are dependent on certain key personnel, the loss of whom could materially affect our financial performance and prospects. Our continued success depends to a large extent upon the continued services of our senior management and certain key employees. Each member of our senior management team has substantial experience and expertise in our industry and has made significant contributions to our growth and success. We do face the risk, however, that members of our senior management may not continue in their current positions and the loss of the services of any of these individuals could cause us to lose customers and reduce our net sales, lead to employee morale problems and the loss of key employees, or cause disruptions to our production. Also, we may be unable to find qualified individuals to replace any of the senior executive officers who leave our company. Fluctuations in the value of currency may negatively affect our revenue and earnings. Doing business internationally exposes us to risks related to the value of one currency compared to another. For example, some of our revenues are generated by sales of goods produced in the U.S. to buyers in foreign countries. If the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to the currency of foreign purchasers, the relative cost of our goods to such purchasers may go up, and the demand for our products may decrease, reducing our revenues. Also, in cases where our debt or other obligations are in currencies different than the currency in which we earn revenue, we may lose money as a result of fluctuations in the exchange rates, decreasing our earnings. Risks Relating to our Common Stock The price of our common stock historically has been volatile. This volatility may affect the price at which you could sell your common stock, and the sale of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect the price of our common stock. The market price for our common stock has varied between a high of $7.75 in September 2012 and a low of $1.53 in November 2011 in the twelve-month period ended October 31, 2012. This volatility may affect the price at which you could sell your common stock, and the sale of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our stock price is likely to continue to be volatile and subject to significant price and volume fluctuations in response to market and other factors, including the other factors discussed in "Risks Relating to Our Business;" variations in our quarterly operating results from our expectations or those of securities analysts or investors; downward revisions in securities analysts' estimates; and announcement by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of their stock, many companies have been the subject of securities class action litigation. If we became involved in securities class action litigation in the future, it could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management's attention and resources and could harm our stock price, business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. The broader stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations in recent months and years. This volatility has affected the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance and may adversely affect the price of our common stock. In addition, our announcements of our quarterly operating results, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets and other developments affecting us, our affiliates or our competitors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, the sale of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely impact our stock price. As of September 30, 2012, we had outstanding approximately 61.1 million shares of our common stock and options to purchase approximately 1.3 million shares of our common stock (all of which were 34 Table of Contents exercisable as of that date). We also had outstanding approximately 3.9 million stock appreciation rights as of September 30, 2012, of which approximately 2.9 million were exercisable. The sale or the availability for sale of a large number of shares of our common stock in the public market could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Our common stock could be delisted from trading on the New York Stock Exchange if we fail to maintain a minimum stock price of $1.00 per share over a 30 day trading period, and other listing standards. A notification of delisting or a delisting will hurt our stock price, make it difficult for stockholders to sell our common stock, limit our ability to raise capital, adversely affect our credit, and may require repayment of our convertible notes. The listing of our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, is subject to compliance with NYSE's continued listing standards, including: •an average closing price of our stock above $1.00 per share over a consecutive 30 day trading period; and •an average market capitalization of our common stock greater than $50 million over a consecutive 30 day trading period or total stockholders' equity of greater than $50 million. In recent years we have lost substantial market capitalization and stockholders' equity, and our stock price has at times approached $1.00 per share. If we do not satisfy the above and all other NYSE continued listing standards, we will receive a notification of deficiency and our common stock could be delisted from the NYSE unless we cure the deficiency during the time provided by the NYSE. If the NYSE were to delist our common stock, it would harm our stock price and the liquidity of our common stock and make it significantly more difficult for our stockholders to sell our common stock at prices comparable to those in effect prior to delisting or at all. If our public float is below $75 million, we will be limited in our ability to use our shelf registration statement or file other registration statements on Form S-3, harming our ability to raise capital. A delisting of our stock may also materially and adversely impact our credit with lenders and vendors. If our stock is delisted from the NYSE and we are unsuccessful in listing our stock on an alternative national stock exchange, we will be required to repay our convertible notes which we may not be able to do. We have never paid dividends and do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the future, so any short-term return on your investment will depend on the market price of our common stock. We currently intend to retain any earnings to finance our operations and growth. The terms and conditions of our senior secured credit facility restrict and limit payments or distributions in respect of our common stock. Delaware law and our charter documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could cause the market price of our shares to decline. We are a Delaware corporation, and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our board of directors has the power, without stockholder approval, to designate the terms of one or more series of preferred stock and issue shares of preferred stock, including the adoption of a "poison pill," which could be used defensively if a takeover is threatened. The ability of our board of directors to create and issue a new series of preferred stock and certain provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the market price of our common stock. 35 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to obtain financing in the future and to react to changes in our business. We have a substantial amount of debt, which requires significant principal and interest payments. As of October 31, 2012, we have approximately $504.9 million face value of debt outstanding, including $400.0 million outstanding principal amount under the Senior Notes issued by us in March 2011 and $104.9 million outstanding principal amount of our convertible subordinated notes. We have $70 million of undrawn availability, subject to a borrowing base limitation, including approximately $18.9 million in letters of credit, under the ABL Revolver entered into in October 2009. Our significant amount of debt could have important consequences. For example, it could: •make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under the notes and the ABL Revolver; •increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and general industry conditions, including interest rate fluctuations, because a portion of our borrowings, including those under the ABL Revolver, are and will continue to be at variable rates of interest; •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes; •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; •place us at a disadvantage compared to competitors that may have proportionately less debt; •reduce our ability to obtain favorable credit terms from vendors, suppliers, and other trade creditors because of our credit profile; •limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing due to applicable financial and restrictive covenants in our debt agreements; and •increase our cost of borrowing. Despite our current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may still incur significant additional indebtedness. Incurring more indebtedness could increase the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness, including additional secured indebtedness, in the future. The terms of the Senior Notes indenture and our ABL Revolver will restrict, but will not completely prohibit, us from doing so. We have $70 million of undrawn availability under the ABL Revolver, subject to borrowing base limitations, including approximately $18.9 million in letters of credit. In addition, the indenture will allow us to issue additional senior secured notes under certain circumstances which will also be guaranteed by our subsidiary guarantors. If new debt or other liabilities are added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we and our subsidiaries now face could intensify. If we default under the ABL Revolver, Senior Notes or other indebtedness, we may not be able to service our debt obligations. In the event of a default under the ABL Revolver, Senior Notes or other indebtedness, lenders could elect to declare amounts borrowed, together with accrued and unpaid interest and other fees, to be due and payable. If such acceleration occurs, thereby permitting an acceleration of amounts outstanding under other debt obligations, we may not be able to repay the amounts due. Events of default are separately defined in each loan agreement or indenture, but include events such as failure 36 Table of Contents to make payments when due, breach of covenants, default under certain other indebtedness, failure to satisfy judgments, certain insolvency events and, in the case of the ABL Revolver, the occurrence of a material adverse effect. An event of default under one of our debt obligations could cause an event of default under our other debt obligations. The occurrence of an event of default could have serious consequences to our financial condition and results of operations, and could cause us to become bankrupt or insolvent. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We will also be required to obtain the consent of the lenders under the ABL Revolver to refinance material portions of our indebtedness. We cannot assure you that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, including our notes. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. If our operating results and available cash are insufficient to meet our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them, and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. Additionally, our debt agreements limit the use of the proceeds from any disposition; as a result, we may not be allowed, under these documents, to use proceeds from such dispositions to satisfy all current debt service obligations. We are a holding company with no independent operations or assets. Repayment of our indebtedness is dependent on cash flow generated by our subsidiaries. Headwaters Incorporated is a holding company and repayment of our indebtedness will be dependent upon cash flow generated by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. Unless they are guarantors of the Senior Notes, our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to pay amounts due on the notes or to make funds available for that purpose. Our subsidiaries may not be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. For instance, if there is a default under the ABL Revolver, the ABL Borrowers will not be permitted to transfer funds to us to pay our notes. Each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. While the indenture governing the Senior Notes limits the ability of our subsidiaries to restrict the payment of dividends or make other intercompany payments to us, these limitations are subject to certain qualifications and exceptions. In the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, including our notes. 37 Table of Contents The indentures governing the Senior Notes and the credit agreement governing the ABL Revolver impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities. The credit agreement governing the ABL Revolver and the indentures governing the Senior Notes impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability, among other things, to: •incur additional indebtedness or issue certain disqualified stock and preferred stock; •pay dividends or certain other distributions on our capital stock or repurchase our capital stock; •make certain investments or other restricted payments; •repay certain debt when it would be to our advantage to do so before it becomes due; •place restrictions on the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments to us; •engage in transactions with affiliates; •sell certain assets and use proceeds to repay debt or for other uses, except as permitted by our debt covenants; •sell substantially all our assets or merge with or into other companies; •guarantee indebtedness; and •create liens. When (and for as long as) the availability under the ABL Revolver is less than a specified amount for a certain period of time, funds deposited into deposit accounts used for collections will be transferred on a daily basis into a blocked account with the administrative agent and applied to prepay loans under the ABL Revolver. As a result of these covenants and restrictions, we will be limited in how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. The terms of any future indebtedness we may incur could include more restrictive covenants. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain compliance with these covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants. There are limitations on our ability to incur the full $70.0 million of commitments under the ABL Revolver. Borrowings under our ABL Revolver will be limited by a specified borrowing base consisting of a percentage of eligible accounts receivable and inventory, less customary reserves. In addition, under the ABL Revolver, a monthly fixed charge maintenance covenant would become applicable if excess availability under the ABL Revolver is at any time less than 15% of the total revolving loan commitments. If the covenant trigger were to occur, the ABL Borrowers would be required to satisfy and maintain on the last day of each month a fixed charge coverage ratio of at least 1.0x for the last twelve-month period. Our ability to meet the required fixed charge coverage ratio can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet this ratio. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the ABL Revolver. Moreover, the ABL Revolver provides the lenders considerable discretion to impose reserves, such as for litigation contingencies, which could materially impair the amount of borrowings that would otherwise be available to us. There can be no assurance that the lenders under the ABL Revolver will not impose such actions during the term of the ABL Revolver and further, were they to do so, the 38 Table of Contents resulting impact of this action could materially and adversely impair our ability to make interest payments on our notes. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 