Item 1A. Risk Factors There are various risks associated with investing in any common stock issued by SGRP ("SGRP Common Stock") that are more fully described below. You should carefully consider each of those risk factors before you purchase or trade any SGRP Common Stock. If any of the described risks develops into actual events, or any other risks arise and develop into actual events, the Company's present or future assets, business, capital, cash flow, credit, expenses, financial condition, income, liabilities, liquidity, locations, marketing, operations, prospects, sales, strategies, taxation or other achievement, results, risks or condition could be materially and adversely affected (in whole or in part), the market price of the SGRP Common Stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment in your SGRP Commo n Stock. The Company has described the risk factors that it currently consider material based on its best estimates respecting those risk factors, the Company's current and future assets, business, capital, cash flow, credit, expenses, financial condition, income, liabilities, liquidity, locations, marketing, operations, prospects, sales, strategies, taxation or other achievement, results or condition, the likelihood of those risks developing into actual events and the likely impact of those events on them, which all involve and include "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of applicable Securities Law (as discussed above). The Company also may be facing additional risks individually, and the Company's industry or the economy may be facing additional risks, whether domestically or internationally, that are currently unknow n to the Company, that are more material or otherwise different than the Company currently believes, or that the Company may have incorrectly analyzed (whether as to the nature or likelihood of such risks or their potential effect). There also may be risks that you (as a potential investor or trader) would recognize or consider more likely or material than the Company does. Any of the risk factors or other cautionary statements described in this Annual Report or any other SEC Report, or any other event or circumstance bearing risk or harm, could at any time arise, become applicable, change or worsen (as the case may be) and materially and adversely effect the Company or any of its assets, business, capital, cash flow, credit, expenses, financial condition, income, liabilities, liquidity, locations, marketing, operations, prospects, sales, strategies, taxation or other achievement, results, risks or condition. -11 - Accordingly, the Company's risk factors and forward-looking statements each involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, potential errors and misjudgments and other factors that could materially and adversely affect, and could contribute to the Company's failure to achieve or realize, in whole or in part, the Company's estimated or desired assets, business, capital, cash flow, credit, expenses, financial condition, income, liabilities, liquidity, locations, marketing, operations, prospects, sales, strategies, taxation or other achievement, results, risks or condition, whether as expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. The Company does not intend or promise, and the Company expressly disclaims any obligation, to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, any of those risk factors or any other cautionary statements (in whole or in part), whether as a result of new information, future events or recognition or otherwise, except as and to the extent required by applicable law. Dependence on Largest Customer and Large Retail Chains As discussed above in “Customer Base”, the Company has a significant amount of business with certain customers. The loss of any of these customers, the loss of the ability to provide merchandising and marketing services in those chains, or the failure to attract new large clients could significantly decrease the Company’s revenues and such decreased revenues could have a material adverse effect on the Company or its estimated or desired assets, business, capital, cash flow, credit, expenses, financial condition, income, liabilities, liquidity, locations, marketing, operations, prospects, sales, strategies, taxation or other achievement, results or condition. Dependence on Trend Towards Outsourcing The business and growth of the Company depends in large part on the continued trend toward outsourcing of merchandising and marketing services, which the Company believes has resulted from the consolidation of retailers and manufacturers, as well as the desire to seek outsourcing specialists and reduce fixed operation expenses. There can be no assurance that this trend in outsourcing will continue, as companies may elect to perform such services internally. A significant change in the direction of this trend generally, or a trend in the retail, manufacturing or business services industry not to use, or to reduce the use of, outsourced marketing services such as those provided by the Company, could significantly decrease the Company’s revenues and such decreased revenues could have a material adverse effect on the Company or its estimated or desired assets, business, capital, cash flow, credit, expenses, financial condition, income, liabilities, liquidity, locations, marketing, operations, prospects, sales, strategies, taxation or other achievement, results or condition. Failure to Successfully Compete The merchandising and marketing services industry is highly competitive and the Company has competitors that are larger (or part of larger holding companies) and may be better financed. In addition, the Company competes with: (i) a large number of relatively small enterprises with specific client, channel or geographic coverage; (ii) the internal merchandising and marketing operations of its existing and prospective clients; (iii) independent brokers; and (iv) smaller regional providers. Remaining competitive in the highly competitive merchandising and marketing services industry requires that the Company monitor and respond to trends in all industry sectors. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to anticipate and respond successfully to such trends in a timely manner. If the Company is unable to successfully co mpete, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company or its estimated or desired assets, business, capital, cash flow, credit, expenses, financial condition, income, liabilities, liquidity, locations, marketing, operations, prospects, sales, strategies, taxation or other achievement, results or condition. If certain competitors were to combine into integrated merchandising and marketing services companies, or additional merchandising and marketing service companies were to enter into this market, or existing participants in this industry were to become more competitive, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company or its estimated or desired assets, business, capital, cash flow, credit, expenses, financial condition, income, liabilities, liquidity, locations, marketing, operations, prospects, sales, strategies, taxation or other achievement, results or condition. Risks of Continuing Losses and Financial Covenant Violations The Company was profitable in both 2010 and in 2009 (See Item 8 – Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, below). The Company also was profitable in 2008 but suffered losses in 2007. The Company's 2007 losses and related effects caused repeated violations of certain covenants in the Company's old domestic credit facility during 2007, 2008 and 2009, which its old lender periodically waived for fees rather than permanently reset to realistically achievable levels. However, the Company changed its domestic lenders in 2010 and entered into a new credit facility with financial covenants that the Company believe are more realistic and thus less likely to require waivers. The Company was in compliance of all its bank covenants in 2010. See Item 7 – Management’s Dis cussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Liquidity and Capital Resources, below. -12 - There can be no assurances that in the future the Company will be profitable, will not violate covenants of its current or future Credit Facilities, its lenders would waive any violations of such covenants, the Company will continue to have adequate lines of credit, or will continue to have sufficient availability under its lines of credit. Accordingly, continued losses or marginal profitability by the Company, as well as any failure to maintain sufficient availability or lines of credit from the Company’s lenders, could have a material adverse effect on the Company or its estimated or desired assets, business, capital, cash flow, credit, expenses, financial condition, income, liabilities, liquidity, locations, marketing, operations, prospects, sales, s trategies, taxation or other achievement, results or condition. Variability of Operating Results and Uncertainty in Client Revenue The Company has experienced and, in the future, may experience fluctuations in quarterly operating results. Factors that may cause the Company’s quarterly operating results to vary from time to time and may result in reduced revenue and profits include: (i) the number of active client projects; (ii) seasonality of client products; (iii) client delays, changes and cancellations in projects; (iv) the timing requirements of client projects; (v) the completion of major client projects; (vi) the timing of new engagements; (vii) the timing of personnel cost increases; and (viii) the loss of major clients. In addition, the Company is subject to revenue or profit uncertai nties resulting from factors such as unprofitable client work (see below) and the failure of clients to pay. The Company attempts to mitigate these risks by dealing primarily with large credit-worthy clients, by entering into written or oral agreements with its clients and by using project budgeting systems. These revenue fluctuations could materially and adversely affect the Company or its estimated or desired assets, business, capital, cash flow, credit, expenses, financial condition, income, liabilities, liquidity, locations, marketing, operations, prospects, sales, strategies, taxation or other achievement, results or condition. Risks of Unprofitable Services The Company has agreed, and in the future may agree, from time to time to perform services for its client that become or turn out to be unprofitable even though the Company expected to make a profit when agreeing to perform them. The Company's services for a particular client or project may be or become unprofitable due to mistakes or changes in circumstance, including (without limitation) any (i) mistake or omission made in investigating, evaluating or understanding any relevant circumstance, requirement or request of the Company's client or any aspect of the prospective services or their inherent problems, (ii) mistake made in pricing, planning or performing the prospective service, (iii) service non-performance, mis-performance or free re-performance, or (iv) change in cost, personnel, regulation or other performance cir cumstance. Unprofitable services could reduce the Company's net revenues and, if material in gross amount or degree of unprofitability, could materially and adversely affect the Company or its actual, expected, estimated or desired assets, business, capital, cash flow, credit, expenses, financial condition, income, liabilities, liquidity, locations, marketing, operations, prospects, sales, strategies, taxation or other achievement, results or condition. Failure to Develop New Products A key element of the Company’s growth strategy is the development and sale of new products. While several new products are under current development, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully develop and market new products. The Company’s inability or failure to devise useful merchandising or marketing products or to complete the development or implementation of a particular product for use on a large scale, or the failure of such products to achieve market acceptance, could adversely affect the Company’s ability to achieve a significant part of its growth strategy and the absence of such growth could have a material adverse effect on the Company or its estimated or desired assets, business, capital, cash flow, credit, expenses, financial condition, income, liabilities, liquidity, locati ons, marketing, operations, prospects, sales, strategies, taxation or other achievement, results or condition and could limit the Company’s ability to significantly increase its revenues and profits. Inability to Identify, Acquire and Successfully Integrate Acquisitions Another key component of the Company’s growth strategy is the acquisition of businesses across the United States and worldwide that offer similar merchandising or marketing services. The successful implementation of this strategy depends upon the Company’s ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, acquire such businesses on acceptable terms, finance the acquisition and integrate their operations successfully with those of the Company. There can be no assurance that such candidates will be available or, if such candidates are available, that the price will be attractive or that the Company will be able to identify, acquire, finance or integrate such businesses successfully. In addition, in pursuing such acquisition opportunities, the Company may compete with other entities with similar growth strategies, these co mpetitors may be larger and have greater financial and other resources than the Company. Competition for these acquisition targets could also result in increased prices of acquisition targets and/or a diminished pool of companies available for acquisition. The successful integration of these acquisitions also may involve a number of additional risks, including: (i) the inability to retain the clients of the acquired business; (ii) the lingering effects of poor client relations or service -13 - performance by the acquired business, which also may taint the Company’s existing businesses; (iii) the inability to retain the desirable management, key personnel and other employees of the acquired business; (iv) the inability to fully realize the desired efficiencies and economies of scale; (v) the inability to establish, implement or police the Company’s existing standards, controls, procedures and policies on the acquired business; (vi) diversion of management attention; and (vii) exposure to client, employee and other legal claims for activities of the acquired business prior to acquisition. In addition, any acquired business could perform significantly worse than expected. The inability to identify, acquire, finance and successfully integrate such merchandising or marketing services business could have a material adverse effect on the Company or its estimated or desired assets, business, capital, cash flow, credit, expenses, financial condition, income, liabilities, liquidity, locations, marketing, operations, prospects, sales, strategies, taxation or other achievement, results or condition. Uncertainty of Financing for, and Dilution Resulting from, Future Acquisitions The timing, size and success of acquisition efforts and any associated capital commitments cannot be readily predicted. Future acquisitions may be financed by issuing shares of the SGRP Common Stock, cash, or a combination of Common Stock and cash. If the SGRP Common Stock does not maintain a sufficient market value, or if potential acquisition candidates are otherwise unwilling to accept the SGRP Common Stock as part of the consideration for the sale of their businesses, the Company may be required to obtain additional capital through debt or equity financings. To the extent the SGRP Common Stock is used for all or a portion of the consideration to be paid for future acquisitions, dilution may be experienced by existing stockholders. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain the additional financi ng it may need for its acquisitions on terms that the Company deems acceptable. Failure to obtain such capital would materially and adversely affect the Company or its estimated or desired assets, business, capital, cash flow, credit, expenses, financial condition, income, liabilities, liquidity, locations, marketing, operations, prospects, sales, strategies, taxation or other achievement, results or condition. Reliance on the Internet and Third Party Vendors The Company relies on the Internet for the scheduling, tracking, coordination and reporting of its merchandising and marketing services. The Internet has experienced, and is expected to continue to experience, significant growth in the numbers of users and amount of traffic as well as increased attacks by hackers and other saboteurs. To the extent that the Internet continues to experience increased numbers of users, frequency of use or increased bandwidth requirements of users, there can be no assurance that the Internet infrastructure will continue to be able to support the demands placed on the Internet by this continued growth or that the performance or reliability of the Internet will not be adversely affected. Furthermore, the Internet has experienced a variety of outages and other delays as a result of accidental and intent ional damage to portions of its infrastructure, and could face such outages and delays in the future of similar or greater effect. The Company relies on third-party vendors to provide its Internet access and other services used in its business, and the Company has no control over such third-party providers. Any protracted disruption or material slowdown in Internet or other services could increase the Company’s costs of operation and reduce efficiency and performance, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company or its estimated or desired assets, business, capital, cash flow, credit, expenses, financial condition, income, liabilities, liquidity, locations, marketing, operations, prospects, sales, strategies, taxation or other achievement, results or condition. Economic and Retail Uncertainty The markets in which the Company operates are cyclical and subject to the effects of economic downturns. The current political, social and economic conditions, including the impact of terrorism on consumer and business behavior, make it difficult for the Company, its vendors and its clients to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. Substantially all of the Company’s key clients are either retailers or those seeking to do product merchandising at retailers. Should the retail industry experience a significant economic downturn, the resultant reduction in product sales could significantly decrease the Company’s revenues. The Company also has risks associated with its clients changing their business plans and/or reducing their marketing budgets in response to economic conditions, which could also significantl y decrease the Company’s revenues. Such revenue decreases could have a material adverse effect on the Company or its estimated or desired assets, business, capital, cash flow, credit, expenses, financial condition, income, liabilities, liquidity, locations, marketing, operations, prospects, sales, strategies, taxation or other achievement, results or condition. Risks Associated with Furniture and Other Related Assembly Services The Company's technicians assemble furniture and other products in the homes and offices of customers. Working at a customer's home or office could give rise to claims against the Company for errors, omissions or misconduct by those technicians, including (without limitation) harassment, personal injury, death, damage to or theft of customer property, or other civil or criminal misconduct by such technicians. Claims also could be made against the -14 - Company as a result of its involvement in such assembly services due to (among other things) product assembly errors and omissions, product defects, deficiencies, breakdowns or collapse, products that are not merchantable or fit for their particular purpose, products that do not conform to published specifications or satisfy customer expectations, or products that cause personal injury, death or property damage, in each case whether actual, alleged or perceived by customers, and irrespective of how much time may have passed since such assembly. If such claims are asserted and adversely determined against the Company, then to the extent such claims are not covered by indemnification from the product's seller or manufacturer or by insurance, they could have a material adverse effect on the Company or its estimated or desired assets, business, capital, cash flow, credit, expenses, financial condition, income, liabilities, liquidity, locations, marketing, operations, prospe cts, sales, strategies, taxation or other achievement, results or condition. Dependence Upon and Potential Conflicts in Services Provided by Affiliates The success of the Company’s domestic business is dependent upon the successful execution of its field services by SPAR Marketing Services, Inc. (“SMS”), and SPAR Management Services, Inc. (“SMSI”), each of which is an affiliate, but not a subsidiary, of the Company, and none of which is consolidated in the Company’s financial statements. SMS provides substantially all of the merchandising specialists used by the Company in conducting its domestic business (86% of domestic field expense in 2010), and SMSI provides substantially all of the domestic field management services (94% of domestic field management in 2010) used by the Company in conducting its business (See Item 13 – Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence), and (See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financ ial Statements – Related Party Transactions). These services provided to the Company by SMS and SMSI are on a cost-plus basis pursuant to contracts that are cancelable on 60 days notice prior to December 31 of each year or with 180 days notice at any other time (See Item 13 – Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence, below), and (See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements – Related Party Transactions). The Company has determined that the services provided by SMS and SMSI are at rates that are slightly favorable to the Company. SMS and SMSI (collectively, the “SPAR Affiliates”) are owned solely by Mr. Robert G. Brown, founder, director, Chairman of the Company, and Mr. William H. Bartels, founder, director, and Vice Chairman of the Company, each of whom are also directors and executive officers of each of the SPAR Affiliates (See Item 13 – Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence, below), and (Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements – Related Party Transactions). In the event of any dispute in the business relationships between the Company and one or more of the SPAR Affiliates, it is possible that Messrs. Brown and Bartels may have one or more conflicts of interest with respect to those relationships and could cause one or more of t he SPAR Affiliates to renegotiate or cancel their contracts with the Company or otherwise act in a way that is not in the Company’s best interests. While the Company’s relationships with SMS and SMSI are excellent, there can be no assurance that the Company could (if necessary under the circumstances) replace the field merchandising specialists and management currently provided by SMS and SMSI, respectively, in sufficient time to perform its client obligations or at such favorable rates in the event the SPAR Affiliates no longer performed those services. Any cancellation, other nonperformance or material pricing increase under those affiliate contracts could have a material adverse effect on the Company or its estimated or desired assets, business, capital, cash flow, credit, expenses, financial condition, income, liabilities, liquidity, locations, marketing, operations, prospects, sales, strategies, taxation or other achievement, results or condition. Risks of Common Stock Ownership Dividends on SGRP Common Stock are discretionary, have never been paid, are subject to restrictions in the Company's credit facilities and applicable law and can only be paid to the holders of SGRP Common Stock if the accrued and unpaid dividends and potential dividends are first paid to the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock. In the event of the Company's liquidation, dissolution, or winding-up, the holders of Common Stock are only entitled to share in the Company's assets, if any, that remain after the Company make payment of and provision for all of the Company's debts and liabilities and the liquidation preferences of all of the Company's outstanding Preferred Stock. There can be no assurance that sufficient funds will remain in any such case for dividends or distributions to the holders of SGRP Common S tock. Risks related to the Company's Preferred Stock The Company's ability to issue or redeem Preferred Stock, or any rights to purchase such shares, could discourage an unsolicited acquisition proposal. For example, the Company could impede a business combination by issuing a series of preferred stock containing class voting rights that would enable the holders of such preferred stock to block a business combination transaction. Alternatively, the Company could facilitate a business combination transaction by issuing a series of preferred stock having sufficient voting rights to provide a required percentage vote of -15 - the stockholders. Additionally, under certain circumstances, the Company's issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect the voting power of the holders of the Company's common stock. Although the Company's board of directors is required to make any determination to issue any preferred stock based on its judgment as to the best interests of the Company's stockholders, the Company's board of directors could act in a manner that would discourage an acquisition attempt or other transaction that some, or a majority, of the Company's stockholders may believe to be in their best interests or in which stockholders may receive a premium for their stock over prevailing market prices of such stock. The Company's board of directors does not at present intend to seek stockholder approval prior to any issuance of currently authorized stock, unless otherwise required by law or applicable stock exchange requirements. Risks of Illiquidity in SGRP Common Stock The market price of the Company's common stock has historically experienced and may continue to experience significant volatility. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the sale price of SGRP Common Stock fluctuated from $0.42 to $1.10 per share. The Company believes that its Common Stock is subject to wide price fluctuations due to (among other things) the following: · the relatively small public float and corresponding thin trading market for SGRP Common Stock, attributable to (among other things) the large block of voting shares beneficially owned by the Company's co-founders (as noted below) and generally low trading volumes, and that thin trading market may cause small trades to have significant impacts on SGRP Common Stock price; · the substantial beneficial ownership of approximately 62.4% of the Company's voting stock and potential control by the Company's co-founders (who also are directors and executive officers of the Company), Mr. Robert G. Brown, who beneficially owns approximately 36.4% (or 7,678,289 shares) of SGRP Common Stock, and Mr. William H. Bartels, who beneficially owns approximately 26.1% (or 5,490,505 shares) of SGRP Stock, which amounts were calculated using total beneficial ownership (21,101,161 shares) and their individual beneficial ownerships at March 11, 2011 (including all shares then beneficially owned under currently exercisable warrants and vested options), as more fully described above and below; · the periodic potential risk of the delisting of SGRP Common Stock from trading on Nasdaq (as described below); · any announcement, estimate or disclosure by the Company, or any projection or other claim or pronouncement by any of the Company's competitors or any financial analyst, commentator, blogger or other person, respecting (i) any new product created, product improvement, significant contract, business acquisition or relationship, or other publicized development by the Company or any of its competitors, or (ii) any change, fluctuation or other development in the Company's actual, estimated or desired assets, business, capital, cash flow, credit, expenses, financial condition, income, liabilities, liquidity, locations, marketing, operations, prospects, sales, strategies, taxation or other achievement, results or condition or in those of any of the Company's com petitors, in each case irrespective of accuracy or validity and whether or not adverse or material; and · the general volatility of stock markets, consumer and investor confidence and the economy generally (which often affect the prices of stock issued by the Company and many others without regard to financial results or condition). If the Company issues (other than at fair market value for cash) or the Company's co-founders sell a large number of shares of SGRP Common Stock, or if the market perceives such an issuance or sale is likely or imminent, the market price of SGRP Common Stock could decline and that decline could be significant. In addition, the volatility in the market price of SGRP Common Stock could lead to class action securities litigation that (however unjustified) could in turn impose substantial costs on the Company, divert management’s attention and resources and harm the Company's stock price, business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. The Company is endeavoring to increase its public float and reduce such volatility by the sale of up to 3,000,000 shares of SGRP Common Stock by the Company and certain selling stockholders to the public pursuant to (among other things) a registration statement on Form S-3 that is being amended and will soon be resubmitted to the SEC for additional and potentially final review. See "SGRP Common Stock Offering and S-3 Registration Statement", on page 22, below. -16 - Risks Related to the Company's Significant Stockholders: Potential Voting Control and Conflicts The Company's co-founders, Mr. Robert G. Brown and Mr. William H. Bartels are directors, executive officers (Chairman and Vice-Chairman, respectively) and significant stockholders of the Company, and also are selling stockholders under the 2011 S-3 Registration Statement (see "SGRP Common Stock Offering and S-3 Registration Statement" on page 22, below). Mr. Brown beneficially owns approximately 36.4%, Mr. Bartels beneficially owns approximately 26.1%, and they own approximately 62.4% in the aggregate of the SGRP Common Stock, which amounts were calculated using total beneficial ownership (21,101,161 shares) and their individual beneficial ownerships (7,678,289 shares and 5,490,505 shares, respectively) at March 11, 2011, which ownerships incl uded all shares beneficially owned under currently exercisable warrants and vested options. Although the Company expects those percentages to decrease through sales of SGRP Common Stock by the Company and the Selling Stockholders pursuant to the 2011 S-3 Registration Statement (See "SGRP Common Stock Offering and S-3 Registration Statement" on page 22, below), after all such sales, Mr. Brown will beneficially own at least 7,178,289 shares (or 31.0%), Mr. Bartels will beneficially own at least 4,990,505 shares (or 21.6%), and Mr. Brown and Mr. Bartels will beneficially own in aggregate at least 12,168,794 shares (or 52.6%) of the SGRP Common Stock then beneficially owned on a pro forma basis (assuming no other changes). Mr. Brown and Mr. Bartels have, should they choose to act together, and under certain circumstances Mr. Brown acting alone may have, the ability to control the election of directors, the approval of mergers and all other matte rs that must or may be approved by the Company's stockholders. In any event, Mr. Brown and Mr. Bartels continue to have significant influence over the Company's business and operations and the outcome of the Company's corporate actions, including those involving stockholder approvals. The interests of any significant stockholder may be different from time to time from, and potentially in conflict with, the interests of other stockholders, and ownership concentration could delay or prevent a change in the Company's control or otherwise discourage the Company's potential acquisition by another person, any of which could cause the market price of the SGRP Common Stock to decline and that decline could be significant. Risks of Dilution The Company may issue and the selling stockholders may sell SGRP Common Stock at varying prices under the pending 2011 S-3 Registration Statement once it becomes effective (see "SGRP Common Stock Offering and S-3 Registration Statement" on page 22, below). The Company will try to maximize the net proceeds it receives in each sale, and it hopes to sell the SGRP Common Stock for more than the Company's net book value per share (and thus avoid diluting the existing equity of its existing stockholders by its sales of newly issued SGRP Common Stock), but there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to do so. The Selling Stockholders are reselling shares of Common Stock that are already issued and outstanding, and those sales cannot dilute or othe rwise affect the existing equity of the Company's existing stockholders. The Company also will issue Common Stock at $0.40 per share under the repriced stock options described above, as and when exercised, and the Company may issue additional options to directors, officers, employees and consultants in the future at per-share exercise prices below the price you pay. In addition, the Company may issue shares of SGRP Common Stock in the future in furtherance of the Company's acquisitions or development of businesses or assets. Each of those and other issuances of SGRP Common Stock could have a dilutive effect on the value of your shares, depending on the price the Company are paid (or the value of the assets or business acquired) for such shares, market conditions at the time and other factors. Risks of a Nasdaq Delisting: The SGRP Common Stock is currently trading, has recently traded and could continue to trade for less than $1.00 per share, which is below Nasdaq's minimum trading price for continued listing on the Nasdaq stock market. On two separate occasions during the last two years (September 2009 and April 2010), the Company received notices from Nasdaq advising that the Company failed to maintain a minimum closing bid price of $1.00 per share for shares of SGRP Common Stock for the prior 30 consecutive business days as required by Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(a)(2) (known as the "Bid Price Rule"), and that the Company had a 180 day grace period in which to regain compliance with the Bid Price Rule by maintaining a closing bid price of $1.00 per share for the SGRP Common Stock for a minimum of ten consecutive business days. In each case such compliance was achieved within the applicable grace periods, and the Company received notice from Nasdaq (in December 2009 and September 2010, respectively) that the Company had regained compliance with the Bid Price Rule and that such matter was closed. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to comply with the Bid Price Rule during such grace period or be able to comply in the future with Nasdaq's continued listing requirements. If the Company continues to be in non-compliance after such six month grace period ends, Nasdaq may commence delisting procedures against the Company (during which the Company will have additional time of up to six months to appeal and correct its non-compliance). If the SGRP Common Stock shares were ultimately delisted by Nasdaq, the market liquidity of the SGRP Common Stock could be adversely affected and its market price could decrease, even though such shares may continue to be traded "over the counter", due to (among other things) the potential for increased spreads between bids and asks, lower trading volumes and reporting de lays in over-the-counter trades and the negative implications and perceptions that could arise from such a delisting. Risks Associated with International Subsidiaries While the Company endeavors to limit its exposure for claims and losses in any international subsidiary through contractual provisions, insurance and use of single purpose entities for such ventures, there can be no assurance that the Company will not be held liable for the claims against and losses of a particular international subsidiary under applicable local law or local interpretation of any subsidiary agreements or insurance provisions. If any such claims and losses should occur, be material in amount and be successfully asserted against the Company, such claims and losses could -17 - have a material adverse effect on the Company or its estimated or desired assets, business, capital, cash flow, credit, expenses, financial condition, income, liabilities, liquidity, locations, marketing, operations, prospects, sales, strategies, taxation or other achievement, results or condition. Risks of Having Material Local Investors in International Subsidiaries The Company’s international model is to join forces with local investors having merchandising service expertise and combine their knowledge of the local market with the Company’s proprietary software and expertise in the merchandising business. As a result, each of the Company's international subsidiaries (other than Canada, Japan and China) that is owned in material part by an entity in the local country where the international subsidiary resides and that is not otherwise affiliated with the Company (each a "Local Stockholder"). The joint venture agreements between the Company and the Local Stockholder in the respective international subsidiaries specify, among other things, the equity, programming and support services the C ompany is required to provide and the equity, credit support, certain services and management support that the Local Stockholder is required to provide to the international subsidiary. In the event of any disagreement or other dispute in the business relationships between the Company and Local Stockholder, it is possible that the Local Stockholder may have one or more conflicts of interest with respect to the relationship and could cause the applicable international subsidiary to operate or otherwise act in a way that is not in the Company’s best interests. The joint venture agreements generally have unlimited contract terms and parties generally do not have the right to unilaterally withdraw. However, a non-defaulting party has the right to terminate such agreement upon the other party's default, receipt of notice and failure to cure within a specified period (generally 60 days). In addition, either party, at any time after the end of a specified period (usually between three and five years), may: (1) sell all or part of its equity interest in the international subsidiary to a third party by providing a written notice to the other party of such intentions (in which case the other party has the right of first re fusal and may purchase the equity of the offering party under the same terms and conditions) (a "Right of First Refusal"); or (2) offer to purchase the equity of the other party (in which case the other party has 120 days to either accept or reject the offer or to reverse the transaction and actually purchase the offering party’s equity under the same terms and conditions) (a "Buy/Sell Right"). The Company believes its relationships with the Local Stockholders in its international subsidiaries remain good. Several of the company’s respective international subsidiary contracts are either at or near the end of the applicable periods during which either of the parties may trigger the Right of First Refusal and Buy/Sell provisions described above. Both the Company and such Local Stockholders, as part of their ongoing relationship, are or will be assessing appropriate action as described above. There can be no assurance that the Company could (if necessary under the circumstances) replace equity, credit support, management and other services currently provided by any Local Stockholder in sufficient time to perform its client obligations or that the Company could provide these services and or equity in the event the Local Stockholder was to sell its stock or reduce any support to the Company’s subsidiary in the applicable country. Any cancellation, other nonperformance or material change under the joint venture agreements with Local Stockholders could have a material adverse effect on the Company or its estimated or desired assets, business, capital, cash flow, credit, expenses, financial condition, income, liabilities, liquidity, locations, marketing, operations, prospects, sales, strategies, taxation or oth er achievement, results or condition. Risks Associated with Foreign Currency The Company also has foreign currency exposure associated with its international subsidiaries. In 2010, these exposures are primarily concentrated in the Canadian Dollar, South African Rand, Japanese Yen, and Australian Dollar. Risks Associated with International Business The Company’s expansion strategy includes expansion into various countries around the world. While the Company endeavors to limit its exposure by entering only countries where the political, social and economic environments are conducive to doing business, there can be no assurances that the respective business environments will remain favorable. In the future, the Company’s international operations and sales may be affected by the following risks, which may adversely affect United States companies doing business in foreign countries: • Political and economic risks, including political instability; • Various forms of protectionist trade legislation that currently exist, or have been proposed; • Expenses associated with customizing products; • Local laws and business practices that favor local competition; • Dependence on local vendors; -18 - • Multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations; • Potentially adverse tax consequences; • Local accounting principles, practices and procedures and limited familiarity with US GAAP; • Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; • Communication barriers, including those arising from language, culture, custom and times zones; and • Supervisory challenges arising from distance, physical absences and such communication barriers. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 