Item 1A. Risk Factors Rising interest rates may hurt profits. Interest rates were recently at historically low levels. However, since June 30, 2004, the Federal Reserve has increased its target for the Federal funds rate several times. If short-term interest rates continue to rise or if the yield curve continues to flatten, and if rates on deposits and borrowings reprice upwards faster than the rates on loans and investments, the Company would experience compression of its interest rate spread and net interest margin, which would have a negative effect on profitability. Increased emphasis on commercial lending may expose the Bank to increased lending risks. At December 31, 2005, $343.2 million, or 20.2%, of the Bank’s total loans consisted of commercial, multi-family and land real estate loans, and commercial business loans. This portfolio has grown in recent years and the Bank intends to continue to emphasize these types of lending. These types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one-to-four family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the borrowers. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one-to-four family residential mortgage loans. Also, many of the Bank’s commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose the Bank to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one-to-four family residential mortgage loan. A downturn in the local economy or a decline in real estate values could hurt profits. Most of the Bank’s loans are secured by real estate or are made to businesses in Ocean and Monmouth Counties, New Jersey and the surrounding area. As a result of this concentration, a downturn in the local economy could cause significant increases in nonperforming loans, which would hurt profits. In recent years there has been a significant increase in real estate values in the Bank’s market area. As a result of rising home prices, loans have been well collateralized. A decline in real estate values could cause some mortgage loans to become inadequately collateralized, which would expose the Bank to a greater risk of loss. The Bank operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. The Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision, the Bank’s chartering authority, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of deposits. The Company and the Bank are subject to regulation and supervision by the Office of Thrift Supervision. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and depositors. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on operations, the classification of assets and determination of the level of the allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on operations. The Company’s allowance for loan losses may be inadequate, which could hurt the Company’s earnings. The Company’s allowance for loan losses may prove to be inadequate to cover actual loan losses and if the Company 29 Table of Contents is required to increase its allowance, current earnings may be reduced. When borrowers default and do not repay the loans that the Bank makes to them, the Company may lose money. The Company’s experience shows that some borrowers either will not pay on time or will not pay at all, which will require the Company to cancel or “charge-off” the defaulted loan or loans. The Company provides for losses by reserving what it believes to be an adequate amount to absorb any probable inherent losses. A “charge-off” reduces the Company’s reserve for possible loan losses. If the Company’s reserves were insufficient, it would be required to record a larger reserve, which would reduce earnings for that period. The Company’s mortgage servicing rights may become impaired which could hurt profits. Mortgage servicing rights are carried at the lower of cost or fair value. Any impairment is recognized as a reduction to servicing fee income. In the event that loan prepayments increase due to increased loan refinancing, the fair value of mortgage servicing rights would likely decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 30 Table of Contents 