Item 1A. Risk Factors. Failure to consummate the Merger Agreement could materially and adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and stock price. If the Merger Agreement is not consummated for any reason: • The Company will remain liable for significant transaction costs relating to the merger; • the market price of the Company’s common stock may decline to the extent that the current market price reflects a market belief that the offer and the merger will be completed; and • The Company may have difficulty maintaining certain financial ratios or complying with other financial or restrictive covenants in its debt agreements which could result in an event of default under one of such agreements, which could result in a default or acceleration of all of its other indebtedness, which acceleration, if it occurs, would have a material adverse effect on the Company. Additionally, the announcement of the merger may lead to uncertainty for the Company’s employees and its customers and suppliers. This uncertainty may mean: • The attention of the Company’s management and employees may be diverted from day-to-day operations; and • The Company’s ability to attract new employees and retain existing employees may be harmed by uncertainties associated with the merger. The occurrence of any of these events individually or in combination could materially and adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and stock price. Our independent registered public accountants have expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accountants in their audit report for fiscal 2008 have expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Continued operations depend on our ability to meet our existing debt obligations and the financing or other capital required to do so may not be available or may not be available on reasonable terms. Our audited financial statements were prepared under the assumption that we will continue our operations on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the discharge of liabilities in the normal course of business. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that might be necessary if we are unable to continue as a going concern. If we cannot continue as a viable entity, our stockholders may lose some or all of their investment in the Company. Our business and earnings are highly sensitive to general business and economic conditions, particularly in Southern California, that affect housing prices and the job market, and continued deterioration in these conditions have resulted, and may continue to result, in a deterioration of our loan portfolio. Deterioration in credit quality has had, and could continue to have, a negative impact on our business and earnings. Our business and earnings are highly sensitive to general business and economic conditions. These conditions include the strength of the U.S. economy in general and more specifically the local economies in Southern California, in particular the strength of national and local job markets, the level of interest rates, the slope of the yield curve, the level of inflation, the value of the U.S. dollar as compared to foreign currencies and fluctuations in the level or the volatility in debt, equity and housing markets. Changes in these conditions may adversely affect our business and earnings. As a lender concentrating its business primarily in the Inland Empire of the State of California (San Bernardino and Riverside Counties), deterioration in the credit quality of our loan portfolios has had, and may continue to have, a negative impact on earnings resulting from increased provisioning for loan losses and from increased nonaccrual loans, which could cause a decrease in interest-earning assets. Credit risk incorporates the risk of loss due to adverse changes in a borrower’s ability to meet our financial obligations on agreed upon terms. The overall credit quality of our loan portfolios is particularly impacted by the strength of the U.S. economy and local economies in which we conduct our lending operations, as well as trends in residential housing prices. We continually monitor changes in the economy, particularly unemployment rates and housing prices, because these factors can impact the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. During 2007, the housing market in the U.S. (particularly in California, where properties securing approximately 95% of our outstanding single-family residential mortgage loans are located) began to experience significant adverse trends, including accelerating price depreciation in some markets and rising delinquency and default rates. These conditions led to significant increases in loan delinquencies and credit losses in our mortgage portfolios and higher provisioning for loan losses which has adversely affected our earnings. A substantial majority of our mortgage loans were secured by real estate in Southern California. We expect that housing prices will experience significant further deterioration in 2008 with further adverse effects on our operating results, business and financial condition. Additionally, governmental conditions or natural disasters in Southern California would significantly increase the level of delinquencies and credit losses by eroding the value of loan collateral. Such events could also have an impact on our borrowers’ ability to make payments on their loans and decrease the level and duration of customer deposits. These events could also increase the amount of non-performing assets and have an adverse effect on our efforts to collect on non-performing loans or otherwise liquidate our non-performing assets on terms favorable to us. Increases in credit costs would reduce our earnings and adversely affect our capital position and financial condition. Our current organizational structure does not include a Chief Credit Officer to manage loan portfolio risks. The Bank’s organizational structure currently does not utilize a Chief Credit Officer, although the addition of such a position is under consideration. This position is sometimes seen as an effective means of balancing the risks associated with loan originations through the application of independently applied uniform credit standards. The lack of this position could result in underwriting deficiencies that lead to higher loan delinquencies and undue concentrations of riskier loans in our loan portfolio, which would hurt our operations and profitability. Our ability to service our debt, pay dividends, and otherwise satisfy our obligations as they become due is substantially dependent on capital distributions from the Bank and restrictions imposed by the OTS. A substantial source of funds from which we service our debt and pay our obligations and dividends, is the receipt of dividends from the Bank. Various statutes and regulations limit the availability of dividends from the Bank, and it is possible, depending upon our financial condition and other factors, that regulatory agencies could assert that the payment of dividends, or other payments to us from the Bank, is an unsafe or unsound practice. As a result of any such assertion, the Bank could be prohibited or otherwise restricted from paying dividends to us. In this regard, OTS approval is required before the Bank can pay dividends to us. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service our debt, pay our obligations, or pay dividends on our outstanding equity securities. The inability to receive dividends from the Bank would adversely affect our business activities. The Inland Empire continues to reflect the impact of a distressed housing market. Significant ongoing disruptions in the secondary market for residential mortgage loans have limited the market for and liquidity of most mortgage loans other than conforming Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac loans. The effects of ongoing mortgage market challenges, combined with the ongoing correction in residential real estate market prices and reduced levels of home sales, could result in further price reductions in single-family home values, adversely affecting the value of collateral securing mortgage loans that we hold, mortgage loan originations and gains on sale of mortgage loans. Declining real estate prices and higher interest rates have caused higher delinquencies and losses on certain mortgage loans, particularly second lien mortgages and home equity lines of credit. If real estate prices decline, the value of real estate collateral securing our loans could be reduced. These trends could continue. Our ability to recover on defaulted loans by foreclosing and selling the real estate collateral would then be diminished and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. As of March 31, 2008, approximately 87% of the book value of our loan portfolio consisted of loans collateralized by various types of real estate. Any such downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of job losses, interest rate resets on adjustable-rate mortgage loans or other factors could have further adverse effects 55 Table of Contents on borrowers that result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods that adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. In the event our allowance for loan losses is insufficient to cover such losses, our earnings, capital and parent company liquidity could be adversely affected further. The Inland Empire real estate market currently reflects a weakness similar to that of the national economy. Although this market is expected to remain a primary source of affordable housing for Southern California as the economy recovers, it is currently impacted by excess inventory and a lack of liquidity to support new loans. The current imbalance resulted in large part from the impacts of sub-prime and other non-traditional lending in a rapidly expanding market. Until balance returns to the market through absorption of excess new and existing inventory and improved liquidity, there will continue to be downward pressure on residential and commercial pricing and land values. Despite the increased affordability levels resulting from price decreases, and evidence of increased demand in certain market areas of the Inland Empire, the lack of available liquidity for mortgages and continued excess inventory continue to negatively impact absorption, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our loan portfolio has a high concentration of construction loans. Our construction loans are based upon estimates of costs and value associated with the completed project. These estimates could prove to be inaccurate, which would expose us to additional credit risk. We originate construction loans to contractors and developers for single-family home construction as well as for income-producing properties. At March 31, 2008, construction loans totaled $1.34 billion, or 33% of our gross loans receivable, and almost all of such loans are categorized for regulatory oversight purposes as criticized or classified. Construction lending generally involves a higher credit risk than single-family residential lending. Such loans involve larger loan balances to a single borrower or groups of related borrowers. Construction lending may be affected to a greater extent than residential loans by adverse conditions in real estate markets or the economy because the real estate borrowers’ ability to repay their loans depends on successful development of their properties, as well as the factors affecting residential real estate borrowers. These loans also involve greater risk because they generally are not fully amortizing over the loan period, but have a balloon payment due at maturity. A borrower’s ability to make a balloon payment typically will depend on being able to either refinance the loan or timely sell the underlying property. Construction lending involves risks associated with the length of time required for completion of the construction activities and the adherence or deviation from budgeted costs. Construction lending on income-producing properties carries an additional risk associated with time required to stabilize income-producing properties, sell residential tract developments or refinance the indebtedness. Risk of loss on a construction loan depends largely upon whether our initial estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction equals or exceeds the cost of the property construction (including interest) and the availability of permanent take-out financing. During the construction phase, a number of factors can result in delays and cost overruns. If our estimate of value is inaccurate or if actual construction costs exceed estimates, the value of the property securing our loan may be insufficient to ensure full repayment when completed through a permanent loan or by seizure of collateral. The underwriting, review and monitoring performed by our officers and directors cannot eliminate all of the risks related to these loans. A significant portion of our profitability in recent years resulted from our construction lending portfolio, which is a sector that has recently experienced, and may continue to experience, a significant downturn. This will require us to redirect our business focus to other lending areas, which endeavor cannot be assured of success. We have reported substantial net losses during each of the last three fiscal quarters. No assurance can be given as to when or if we will return to profitability. Our business historically has been that of a portfolio lender, which means that our profitability depends primarily on our ability to originate loans and collect interest and principal as it comes due. When loans become non-performing or their ultimate collection is in doubt, our income is adversely affected. Our provisions for loan and lease losses for each of the four quarters of fiscal 2008 were $21.8 million, $34 million, $35 million and $231.8 million, respectively. Reflecting the significant increase in non-accrual loans, our interest income over the same four quarters was $83.9 million, $80.6 million, $74.9 million and $58.4 million, respectively. This has resulted in net 56 Table of Contents losses being reported for each of the last three quarters. Our ability to return to profitability will significantly depend on the stabilization and subsequent successful resolution of the loan portfolio, the timing and certainty of which cannot be predicted and no assurance can be given that we will be successful in such efforts. Our loan portfolio has suffered substantial deterioration during fiscal 2008 and a substantial portion of the portfolio currently consists of non-performing loans or is otherwise adversely classified. No assurance can be given that the portfolio will not experience further weakness or loss. As a result of significant deterioration in economic conditions in our market area, our loan portfolio suffered substantial deterioration during fiscal 2008. Total classified assets, which comprise all loans classified as substandard, doubtful or loss net of charge-offs, specific valuation allowances and committed but undisbursed loan balances, totaled $799.1 million at that date. We had an additional $226.6 million of assets classified as “special mention.” At March 31, 2008, our non-accrual loans totaled $775.9 million, or 18.9% of gross loans and leases. No assurance can be given that additional loans will not be added to “classified” status or that existing classified loans will not migrate into lower classifications, resulting in additional provisions for loan losses. We may be subject to an increased likelihood of class action litigation. The market price of our common stock has declined substantially over the past year, reflective of such factors as our reported losses, net outflows in our deposit base and investors’ perceptions about our business prospects. The occurrence of these events could result in stockholder class action lawsuits, even if the activities subject to complaint are not unlawful. For example, in the course of our audit of our financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2008, following our public announcement of an anticipated net loss of approximately $159 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2008, management and our auditors identified adjustments that resulted in approximately a $45 million negative impact on earnings which are reflected in our financial statements covering the year ended March 31, 2008. Additionally, the Bank may be required to amend its quarterly Thrift Financial Report dated as of March 31, 2008, which would cause the Bank’s total risk-based capital level to be designated as “undercapitalized” for regulatory purposes. These events and the negative publicity surrounding the above-referenced occurrences may result in more regulation and legislative scrutiny of our industry practices and may expose us to increased shareholder litigation and regulatory enforcement actions, which would adversely affect our business. We may need to raise additional capital, but that capital may not be available, or may not be available on terms acceptable to us when needed. We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We do not believe our existing capital resources will satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future, nor be sufficient to offset further deterioration in our loan portfolio. Our asset quality may continue to erode and require significant additional provision, causing continued net operating losses at the Bank. Because our capital levels have declined, and may continue to decline, we will likely need to raise additional capital. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend in part on conditions in the capital markets, which are outside of our control. Additionally, we have entered into a Memorandum of Understanding with regulatory authorities which restricts our ability to incur new debt or repay existing debt and we may enter into additional agreements with regulatory authorities, which include requirements to raise capital to a level sufficient to meet operating needs. Accordingly, we cannot be certain of our ability to raise additional capital, or to raise additional capital on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our business activities, financial condition, and results of operation could be materially impaired. Our commercial lending activity and the commercial loans that are held in our loan portfolio expose us to credit risks. When originating or purchasing commercial loans, we undertake an analysis of the credit risk, the value of the underlying collateral and other more intangible factors. The commercial loans held in our loan portfolio exposes us to risks including possible errors in our credit analysis, the uncertainty of the borrower’s ability to repay the loans, the uncertainty of future economic conditions and the possibility of loan defaults. Commercial lending generally includes higher interest rates and shorter terms of repayment than noncommercial lending. Accordingly, we are subject to greater credit risk with the commercial lending and commercial loans held in our loan portfolio. We invest, in a limited manner, in mortgage-backed obligations, which may lead to volatility in cash flow and market risk. Our investment portfolio includes mortgage-backed securities. When we acquire such mortgage-backed securities, we anticipate that the underlying mortgages will prepay at a projected rate, thereby generating an expected yield. Prepayment rates generally increase as interest rates fall and decrease when interest rates rise, but changes in prepayment rates are difficult to predict. Many of our mortgage-backed securities were acquired at a premium purchase price. In accordance with applicable accounting rules, we will amortize such premiums over the expected lives of our mortgage-backed securities. If the mortgage-backed securities prepay more rapidly than anticipated, we would have to amortize the premium on an accelerated basis, which would thereby adversely affect our profitability. 57 Table of Contents Our allowance for loan losses may prove inadequate or we may be negatively affected by credit risk exposures. An inadequate allowance for loan losses would reduce our earnings. Our business depends on the creditworthiness of our customers. As with most lending institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for defaults and non-performance. Such allowance may not be adequate to cover actual losses, and future provisions for losses could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolios when estimating the allowance for loan losses, which represents management’s estimate of incurred credit losses inherent in the loan portfolio as of the balance sheet date. We periodically review our allowance for loan losses for adequacy. We consider economic conditions and trends, collateral values and credit quality indicators, including past charge-off experience and levels of past due loans and non-performing assets. The estimate of our allowance for loan losses is based on a variety of factors, including past loan loss experience, the current credit profile of borrowers, adverse situations that have occurred that may affect a borrower’s ability to meet his financial obligations, the estimated value of underlying collateral, general economic conditions, and the impact that changes in interest rates and employment conditions have on a borrower’s ability to repay adjustable-rate loans. Determining the appropriateness of the allowance is complex and requires judgment by management about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. The amount of future losses is susceptible to change, and may exceed current estimates, due to volatility in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, that may be beyond our control and these losses may exceed current estimates. Subsequent evaluations of our loan portfolio may reveal that estimated levels of loss severity used in estimating the allowance for loan losses differed significantly from actual experience, and in such circumstances we may have to record an increased provision for loan losses in subsequent periods, thereby reducing earnings in those periods. As an integral part of the examination process, federal regulatory agencies review our loans, leases, loan-related commitments and allowance for loan and lease losses. While we believe that our allowance for loan and lease losses is adequate to cover current losses, we cannot guarantee that we will not need to increase further the allowance for loan and lease losses or that regulators will not require such an increase. An increase in the level of loan and lease loss allowance, whether voluntary or compelled by regulators, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We collect information on the performance of loans in our portfolios and routinely use this information to recalibrate the formulaic models used in estimating the allowance for loan losses. We cannot be certain that our allowance for loan losses will be adequate over time to cover credit losses in our portfolio because of unanticipated adverse changes in the economy, market conditions or events adversely affecting specific customers, industries or markets. If the credit quality of our customer base materially decreases, if the risk profile of a market, industry or group of customers changes materially, or if our allowance for loan losses is not adequate, our business, financial condition, including our liquidity and capital, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. A significant source of risk arises from the possibility that we could sustain losses caused by borrowers’, guarantors’, and related parties’ failure to perform in accordance with the terms of their respective loans and leases. The underlying credit monitoring polices and procedures that we have adopted to address this risk may not prevent unexpected losses that could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Unexpected losses may arise from a variety of specific systematic factors, many of which are beyond our ability to predict, influence or control. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability and adversely affect the value of our assets, our net interest income and our earnings. Like other financial institutions, we raise funds for our business by, among other things, borrowing money in the capital markets and from the Federal Home Loan Bank system and accepting deposits from depositors, which we use to make loans to customers and invest in debt securities and other interest-earning assets. Our profitability depends to a large extent on our net interest income, which is the difference between income on interest-earning assets such as mortgage loans and investment securities, and expense on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. We are affected by changes in general interest rate levels and by other economic factors beyond our control. 58 Table of Contents Changes in interest rates may adversely affect our net interest income (and therefore our earnings), loan volume and quality as well as deposit volume and mix. Our net interest income may be reduced if: (i) more interest-earning assets than interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature during a time when interest rates are declining or (ii) more interest-bearing liabilities than interest-earning assets reprice or mature during a time when interest rates are rising. Changes in the difference between short- and long-term interest rates may also harm our business. For example, short-term deposits may be used to fund longer-term loans. When differences between short-term and long-term interest rates shrink or disappear, the spread between rates paid on deposits and received on loans could narrow significantly, decreasing our net interest income. If market interest rates rise rapidly, interest rate adjustment caps may limit increases in the interest rates on adjustable-rate mortgage loans (ARMs), thus reducing our net interest income because we will need to pay the higher rates on our deposits and borrowings while being limited on the repricing of these loans due to the interest rate caps. As of May 31, 2008, ARMs made up approximately 92% of our residential mortgage loan portfolio including loans held-for-sale. The interest rates on ARMs adjust periodically based upon a contractually agreed index or formula up to a specified cap. In times of sharply rising interest rates, these caps could negatively effect our net interest margin by limiting the potential increase to interest income. In addition, certain ARM loans reprice based on lagging interest rate indices. The effect of this lag may also negatively affect our net interest income when general interest rates continue to rise periodically. Lag risk results from timing differences between repricing of adjustable-rate assets and liabilities. The effect of this timing difference, or “lag,” would be generally favorable in a falling interest rate environment and negative during periods of rising interest rates. This lag risk can produce short-term volatility in the net interest margin during periods of interest rate movements even though over time the lag effect will balance out. As a result, we may experience compression of our net interest margin with a commensurate adverse effect on earnings. Likewise, our earnings could be adversely affected when a flat or inverted yield curve develops, as this may inhibit our ability to grow our ARM portfolio and may also cause margin compression. A prolonged economic downturn could increase the number of customers who become delinquent or default on their loans. A rising interest rate environment could increase the negative amortization of our ARM loans, which may eventually result in increased delinquencies and defaults. In addition, an increase in the general level of interest rates may adversely affect the ability of some borrowers to pay the interest and principal of their obligations and decrease customer demand for loans. Changing interest rates also affect the yield on interest-earning assets, the cost of interest-bearing liabilities and the absolute and relative volume of each. We expect that we will periodically experience imbalances in the interest rate sensitivity of our assets and liabilities and the relationships of various interest rates to each other. During a period of changing interest rates, our interest-earning assets may show a greater sensitivity to changes in market rates than that of our interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa. Changes in levels of market interest rates could materially, over a short period of time, affect our net interest spread and margin, asset quality, origination volume and our overall profitability. We manage interest rate risk by managing the volume and mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities by purchasing and selling financial instruments and entering into interest rate contracts and forward commitments. Our use of such derivative instruments, however, exposes us to credit risk and market risk. Our credit risk is heightened when the fair value of a derivative contract is positive, which generally means that a counterparty owes money to us. We try to minimize credit risk in derivative instruments by entering into transactions with high-quality counterparties, but there can be no assurance that our financial evaluation of a counterparty will be accurate or that its financial status will not change. Market risk is the adverse effect on the value of a financial instrument from a change in interest rates or implied volatility of rates. We manage market risk by establishing and monitoring limits on the types and degree of risk undertaken. Changes in interest rates may have either a positive or negative effect on the value of a derivative instrument depending on the nature of the derivative instrument. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively. If we are unable to manage interest rate risk effectively, our business model, financial condition and results of operations could be materially affected. Loan servicing income derived from residential mortgage loan servicing rights and our overall profitability may be adversely affected during periods of declining interest rates due to increases in loan prepayments. Owning residential mortgage loan servicing rights carries interest rate risk because the total amount of servicing fees earned, as well as the amortization of the investment in the servicing rights, fluctuates based on loan prepayments (affecting the expected average life of a portfolio of residential mortgage servicing rights). The rate of 59 Table of Contents prepayment of mortgage loans may be influenced by changing national and regional economic trends, such as recessions or depressed real estate markets, as well as the difference between interest rates on existing mortgage loans relative to prevailing mortgage rates. Changes in prepayment rates are therefore difficult for us to predict. An increase in the general level of interest rates may adversely affect the ability of some borrowers to pay the interest and principal of their obligations. During periods of declining interest rates, many borrowers refinance their mortgage loans. The loan administration fee income related to the residential mortgage loan servicing rights corresponding to a mortgage loan ceases as mortgage loans are prepaid. Consequently, the market value of portfolios of residential mortgage loan servicing rights tends to decrease during periods of declining interest rates, because greater prepayments can be expected and, as a result, the amount of loan administration income received also decreases. Mortgage loans in our loan portfolio are subject to risks of delinquency, foreclosure and loss, which could result in losses to us. The residential and commercial mortgage loans held in our loan portfolio are secured by residential and commercial properties and are subject to risks of delinquency, foreclosure and loss of principal and interest. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by residential property typically is dependent primarily upon the income or assets of the borrower. In addition, other factors that affect the risk of our mortgage loan portfolio include: • property location and condition; • competition and demand for comparable properties; • changes in zoning laws for the property or its surrounding area; • environmental contamination at the property; • the occurrence of any uninsured casualty at the property; • changes in national, regional or local economic conditions; • declines in regional or local real estate values; • increases in interest rates and/or real estate tax rates; • changes in governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies, including environmental legislation and tax laws; and • other events such as acts of God, natural disasters, war, terrorism, social unrest and civil disturbances. In the event of any default under a mortgage loan held in our mortgage loan portfolio, we will bear a risk of loss of principal to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the collateral that we can realize upon foreclosure and sale and the principal and accrued interest of the mortgage loan and the cost of foreclosing on the related property. Losses resulting from mortgage loan defaults and foreclosures could have a material adverse effect on our income and cash flow from operations. We are exposed to greater risks of loss where we make both first and second lien mortgage loans on the same property and we do not have the benefits of private mortgage insurance. In the event of the bankruptcy of a mortgage loan borrower, the mortgage loan to such borrower will be deemed to be secured only to the extent of the value of the underlying collateral at the time of bankruptcy, as determined by the bankruptcy court. The lien securing the mortgage loan will be subject to the avoidance powers of the bankruptcy trustee or debtor-in-possession to the extent the lien is unenforceable under state law. Foreclosure of a mortgage loan can be an expensive and lengthy process that can have a substantial negative effect on our originally anticipated return on the foreclosed mortgage loan. 60 Table of Contents Certain of our loan products have features that may result in increased credit risk. We have significant portfolios of home equity loans, which are secured by a first or second lien on the borrower’s property. When we hold a second lien on a property that is subordinate to a first lien mortgage held by another lender, both the probability of default and severity of loss risk is generally higher than when we hold both the first and second lien positions. Home equity loans and lines of credit with combined loan-to-value ratios of greater than 80 percent also expose us to greater credit risk than home loans with loan-to-value ratios of 80 percent or less at origination. This greater credit risk arises because, in general, both default risk and the severity of loss risk are higher when borrowers have less equity in their homes. Our revenues from loan servicing can also be adversely affected by delinquencies and defaults. We are also affected by loan delinquencies and defaults on loans that we service. Under many types of servicing contracts, the servicer must forward to the owner of the loan all or part of the scheduled payments and mortgage and hazard insurance and tax payments even though sufficient escrow funds may not have been paid by borrowers. Until we are able to recover these advances, we must incur the cost of funds on the advance. Further, we must bear the increased costs of attempting to collect delinquent or defaulted loans and may experience losses if we are unable to recover the advanced funds. If we sell loans or servicing rights and the underlying loan defaults, we may be liable to the purchaser for unpaid principal and interest on the loan. In the ordinary course of selling loans or servicing rights and in accordance with industry standards, we make certain representations and warranties to purchasers. If a loan defaults and there has been a breach of representations or warranties and we have no recourse against a third party, we may become liable for the unpaid principal and interest on the defaulted loan. In such a case, we may be required to repurchase the loan and bear any subsequent loss on the loan. When we purchase servicing rights or loans, we also are exposed to liability to the extent that an originator or other seller of the servicing rights is unable to honor its representations and warranties to us. If a loan originator or seller of loans and servicing rights breaches its representations and warranties to us, we may be at risk if such seller does not have the financial capacity to pay for damages we incur as a result of such breach or to repurchase any such loan. We generally receive representations and warranties from the originators and sellers from whom we purchase loans and servicing rights, as well as contractually providing for recourse relating to performance of the loans we purchase. However, in the event of an originator’s and/or seller’s breach of such representations and warranties, we may be subject to the risk of loss that may result from such a breach if the seller and/or originator does not have the financial capacity to pay for any damages we incur or to repurchase loans when called upon by us to do so. We are subject to losses due to fraudulent and negligent acts on the part of loan applicants, brokers, other vendors and our employees. When we originate loans, we rely heavily upon information supplied by third parties, including the information contained in the loan application, appraisal, title information and employment and income documentation. If any of this information is intentionally or negligently misrepresented and such misrepresentation is not detected prior to the loan funding, the value of the loan may be significantly lower than expected. Whether a misrepresentation is made by the loan applicant, the broker, another third party or one of our own employees, we generally bear the risk of loss associated with the misrepresentation. A loan subject to a material misrepresentation is typically unsaleable or subject to repurchase if it is sold prior to detection of the misrepresentation. Even though we may have rights against persons and entities who made or knew about the misrepresentation, such persons and entities are often difficult to locate and it is often difficult to collect any monetary losses that we have suffered as a result of their actions. 61 Table of Contents We have controls and processes designed to help us identify misrepresented information in our loan origination operations. We cannot assure you, however, that we have detected or will detect all misrepresented information in our loan originations. We are subject to losses due to fraudulent and negligent acts in other parts of our operations. If we experience or detect a significant number of such fraudulent or negligent acts, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations would be significantly harmed. If we continue to experience significant losses, we may need to raise additional capital, which could have a dilutive effect on existing stockholders. We must maintain certain minimum capital ratios for regulatory purposes. If we are unable to meet our minimum capital ratios, we may be forced to raise additional capital. No assurance can be given that sufficient additional capital would be available nor as to the terms on which capital would be available. If sufficient capital were not available, we would consider a variety of alternatives, including the sale of additional assets. Under such forced sale conditions, we may not be able to realize the fair value of the assets sold. Other alternatives would include changing our business practices or entering into additional equity transactions. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we report our financial condition and results of operations and we use estimates in determining the fair value of certain of our assets, which estimates may prove to be imprecise and result in significant changes in valuation. A portion of our assets are carried on the balance sheet at fair value, including investment securities and mortgage-backed securities available for sale. Generally, for assets that are reported at fair value, we use quoted market prices or internal valuation models that utilize observable market data inputs to estimate their fair value. In certain cases, observable market prices and data may not be readily available or their availability may be diminished due to market conditions. We use financial models to value certain of these assets. These models are complex and use asset-specific collateral data and market inputs for interest rates. Although we have processes and procedures in place governing internal valuation models and their testing and calibration, we cannot assure that we can properly manage the complexity of our models and valuations to ensure, among other things, that the models are properly calibrated, the assumptions are reasonable, the mathematical relationships used in the model are predictive and remain so over time, and the data and structure of the assets and hedges being modeled are properly input. Such assumptions are complex as we must make judgments about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Different assumptions could result in significant changes in valuation, which in turn could affect earnings or result in significant changes in the dollar amount of assets reported on the balance sheet. We, and our independent registered public accounting firm, have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Management and our independent registered public accountants have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Our internal control over financial reporting related to the allowance for loan and lease losses and the completeness and accuracy of the provision for loan and lease losses contained multiple deficiencies that represent material weaknesses. The identified deficiencies that are considered to be material weaknesses were that: • the assignment of authority and responsibility did not provide for oversight of the credit review function that was sufficiently independent of loan production to ensure appropriate authority to control risk and enforce proper grading; and • policies and procedures designed to timely and accurately risk classify the loan portfolio did not operate effectively. While we are taking steps to address the identified material weaknesses and prevent additional material weaknesses from occurring, there is no guarantee that these steps will be sufficient to remediate the identified 62 Table of Contents material weaknesses or prevent additional material weaknesses from occurring. If we fail to remediate the material weaknesses, or if additional material weaknesses are discovered in the future, we may fail to meet our future reporting obligations and our financial statements may contain material misstatements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of the periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We are subject to extensive regulation that could restrict our activities, including capital distributions, and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business. We operate in a heavily regulated industry and are subject to a wide array of laws and regulations that apply to almost every element of our business, including banking, mortgage, securities, consumer lending and deposit laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS) as our primary federal regulator, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), which insures our deposits. As a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB), we must also comply with applicable regulations of the Federal Housing Finance Board and the FHLB. Regulation by these agencies is intended primarily for the protection of our depositors and the deposit insurance fund and not for the benefit of our stockholders. Our activities are also regulated under consumer protection laws applicable to our lending, deposit and other activities. A sufficient claim against us under these laws could have a material adverse effect on our results. On June 13, 2008, the Company and the Bank each entered into a Memorandum of Understanding with the OTS. The Company’s Memorandum of Understanding formally prevents it from incurring, renewing or rolling over any debt and formally limits our ability to make any payments on existing debt (principal, interest or fees of any kind) without OTS approval. In addition, we must make all available cash or its equivalent and liquidate assets available for infusion into the Bank, if and as directed by the OTS Regional Director. Additionally, neither the Company nor the Bank can add or replace any directors or senior executive officers or pay certain severance payments without FDIC and/or OTS prior approval. Among other things, the Bank’s ability to make capital distributions, dividend payments, or other payments to the Company, which the Company depends on to fund all payments on its obligations, including debt obligations, is subject to regulatory limitations. In accordance with the Bank’s Memorandum of Understanding, the Bank is required to give the OTS 45 prior days’ notice before making any capital distributions to the Company. The OTS may disapprove the notice if it determines that the Bank would be undercapitalized after the proposed distribution, that the proposed distribution raises safety and soundness concerns or that the proposed distribution would violate a statute, regulation or agreement with the OTS or any condition imposed by the OTS. The Bank is required to refine and implement a plan to reduce problem assets to acceptable levels and is precluded from making any new land or construction loans or modifying any existing land or construction loans without the prior written non-objection of the OTS. The Bank must also seek prior OTS approval before engaging in any transactions with its affiliates and must restrict its growth to not exceed an amount equal to the net interest credited on deposit liabilities during such quarter. FDIC regulations also require all insured depository institutions to remain in a safe and sound condition, as defined in such regulations, as a condition of federal deposit insurance. OTS regulations also restrict the Bank’s ability to open new banking offices. The Bank must publish notice of the proposed office in area newspapers and, if objections are made, the new office may be delayed or disapproved. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in financial and operational penalties, including fines, restrictions on otherwise permissible activities and receivership. In addition, establishing systems and processes to achieve compliance with these laws and regulations may increase the Bank’s costs and/or limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. The volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions remain high. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us and our subsidiaries could adversely affect our financial results or cause reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. Additionally, institutions setting the accounting standards, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), the SEC and other regulatory bodies, may change the financial accounting and reporting standards applicable to the preparation of our financial statements. These changes could materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In certain instances, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in a material increase in the costs associated with such reporting. Our business and earnings are significantly affected by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and other agencies. We are particularly affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve Board, which regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Federal Reserve policies directly and indirectly influence the yield on our interest-earning assets and the cost of our interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in those policies are beyond our control and are difficult to predict. 63 Table of Contents Changes in the regulation of financial services companies, housing government-sponsored enterprises and mortgage lenders and servicers could adversely affect us. In addition, changes in federal bankruptcy law, state foreclosure laws, and other laws impacting a lender’s ability to collect debts or to realize the full value of collateral backing loans could negatively affect us. The banking and financial services industries, in general, are heavily regulated. Proposals for legislation further regulating the banking and financial services industry are continually being introduced in the United States Congress and in state legislatures. The agencies regulating the financial services industry also periodically adopt changes to their regulations. Proposals that are now receiving a great deal of attention and could significantly impact our business include changes to consumer protection initiatives relating to bank overdraft practices, security of customer information, marketing practices, nontraditional mortgage loan products (including option ARM loans and interest-only products), credit card lending practices, fees charged to merchants for credit and debit card transactions, and mortgage lending and servicing practices. For instance, the Federal Reserve Board has proposed amendments to Regulation Z, which implements the Truth in Lending Act and the Home Ownership Equity Protection Act, to require new disclosures and restrict certain lending and servicing practices with regard to mortgages. The Federal Reserve Board has also proposed amendments to Regulation Z that would require changes to the format, timing, and content of credit card disclosures. The Department of Housing and Urban Development has proposed changes to its regulations implementing the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act. These changes could impose new duties and responsibilities on mortgage originators. The OTS has proposed a similar rulemaking that, if adopted, could define certain credit card, overdraft, and mortgage lending practices as unfair or deceptive acts or practices under the Federal Trade Commission Act. Legislation calling for increased regulation of mortgage and credit card lending is also receiving serious consideration in Congress and in the state legislatures. In 2007, the U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation that would impose new responsibilities on mortgage lenders and restrict certain mortgage lending and servicing practices. Policymakers at all levels of government are considering a number of initiatives to assist borrowers who are having difficulty repaying their home loans. State governments have adopted proposals that would change the mechanics of and lengthen the foreclosure process. On December 5, 2007, President Bush proposed a plan for a five-year moratorium on interest rate resets for certain subprime mortgages held by qualifying borrowers. Other public officials and private groups have proposed similar plans for the restructuring of distressed loans. The U.S. House of Representatives and Senate Judiciary Committees have reported out legislation that would allow judges to modify the terms of certain mortgages in Chapter 13 bankruptcies. On February 13, 2008, President Bush signed the Economic Stimulus Act of 2008 into law. Among other things, the legislation will raise the Federal Housing Administration (“FHA”) loan limit to 125 percent of the area median house price (as determined by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development) up to a maximum of $729,750 for loans approved by December 31, 2008, and will increase the Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac conforming loan limit to the same amount for loans originated between July 1, 2007 through December 31, 2008. In addition, there continues to be a focus on reform of the regulatory oversight of the housing government-sponsored enterprises, including the Federal Home Loan Bank system. We are unable to predict whether any of these proposals will be implemented or in what form and what effect any such proposal could have on our business or operating results. It is possible that one or more legislative proposals may be adopted or regulatory changes may be made that would have an adverse effect on our business. We are subject to operational risks, which may result in incurring financial losses. We are exposed to many types of operational risk, including the risk of fraud by employees or outsiders, the risk of operational errors, including clerical or recordkeeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. Certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully corrected. Our dependence upon automated systems to record and process transactions may further increase the risk that technical system flaws or employee tampering with or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. We may be subject to disruptions of our systems, arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control (including, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages), which may give rise to losses in service to customers and to financial loss or liability. We are further exposed to the risk that our 64 Table of Contents external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as we are) and to the risk that our (or our vendors’) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. We also face the risk that the design of our controls and procedures may prove to be inadequate or are circumvented, thereby causing delays in detection of errors or inaccuracies in data and information. Although we maintain a system of controls designed to keep operational risk at appropriate levels, we and our auditors have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. It is possible that these material weaknesses and any other lapses in the effective operations of controls and procedures could materially affect earnings or harm our reputation. In an organization like ours, lapses or deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting could be material to us. The security of our network infrastructure is important to our business and our ability to protect customer information, and breaches of our network security may result in customer information being compromised and/or identity theft, which would have a material adverse effect upon our business. In our business, we maintain personal and financial information about our current, past and potential customers on our computer systems and network infrastructure, such as customer names, addresses, social security numbers, tax identification numbers, bank account numbers, information on loan applications and other sensitive personal and financial information. In addition, many of our customers use the Internet and connect to our website to access their bank accounts to retrieve information about their accounts, as well as conduct online transactions, such as online bill payments. If the security of our encrypted computer systems and network infrastructure responsible for storing our customers’ personal and financial data and information and/or the security of our online banking Internet services are breached by an unauthorized person or entity, then such customer’s information that is stolen from us could be potentially misused by any such unauthorized person. This could include the loss of privacy of such customer’s non public information through the sale and/or disclosure of such information to third parties, as well as the potential that the stolen customer information could be used in such a way that results in identity theft of the customer. We cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments will not compromise or breach our encrypted computer systems and network infrastructure that is responsible for the storage of our customers’ personal and financial information. If our security measures fail to protect our customers’ information, our existing and future customer base may be adversely affected, we may become subject to customer lawsuits, the public perception of us may be diminished, and our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. We may face damage to our professional reputation and business as a result of negative publicity, including increase in deposit outflows. Reputational risk, meaning the risk to earnings and capital from negative public opinion, is inherent in our business. Negative public opinion can result from the actual or perceived manner in which we conduct our business activities, which include our sales and trading practices, our loan origination and servicing activities, our retail banking operations, our management of actual or potential conflicts of interest and ethical issues and our protection of confidential customer information. Recent negative publicity that has been experienced due to the Company’s weak earnings performance, coupled with the substantial drop in the Company’s stock price over the last few quarters, has resulted in increased deposit outflows. Approximately one-third of the Bank’s deposits are above FDIC insurance limits. Future negative news, if not counter-balanced by offsetting positive news, could raise withdrawal levels beyond the capacity of the Bank’s currently available liquidity to satisfy. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers and can expose us to litigation. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in avoiding damage to our business from a decline in our reputation. We operate in a competitive environment with other financial institutions, which could adversely affect our profitability. The banking and financial services industry is very competitive in Southern California, where much of our business is concentrated. A number of financial service companies located in Orange County and the Inland Empire of Southern California have announced mergers with intrastate or out of state financial institutions. Consolidation among financial service providers has resulted in an decreasing number of very large national and regional banking and financial institutions holding increasingly large accumulations of assets and deposits. The resulting large financial institutions have significantly greater resources, a wider geographic presence and savings branch network 65 Table of Contents than we do and are subsequently able to offer more services, more favorable pricing or greater customer convenience than we can. In addition, our competition has grown from new banks and other financial services providers that target our existing or potential customers, as well as non-depository institutions that offer products and services that have been traditionally offered only by banks. We compete for deposits with banks, savings institutions and credit unions, as well as institutions offering uninsured investment alternatives, including money market funds and mutual funds. These competitors may offer higher interest rates than we do, which could decrease the deposits that we attract or require us to increase our rates to attract new deposits. Increased competition for deposits could increase our cost of funds and adversely affect our ability to generate the funds necessary for our lending operations. Competition for loans comes principally from other banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking companies and other lenders. In originating mortgage loans, we compete with real estate investment trusts, investment banking firms, savings and loan associations, banks, mortgage bankers, insurance companies, mutual funds, other lenders, the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, the Government National Mortgage Association and other entities purchasing mortgage loans. This competition could decrease the number and size of loans that we make and the interest rates and fees that we receive on these loans. The demand for residential mortgage loans in recent years has made it more difficult and expensive to recruit and retain the services of qualified lending personnel. Increased competition for loan officers and other personnel could hinder our ability to close loans and to improve our results of operations. The intense competition in the banking and financial services industry has also led to rapid technological developments, evolving industry standards and frequent releases of new products and enhancements. Technological developments have allowed competitors, including some non-depository institutions, to compete more effectively in local markets, and have expanded the range of financial products, services and capital available to our target customers. In addition, some of these competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and lower cost structures. As products are offered more widely through alternative distribution channels, such as the Internet, we may be required to make significant changes to our current retail and wholesale structure and information and technology systems to compete effectively. In addition, we rely on software and other technology-based programs to gather and analyze competitive and other data from the marketplace. Problems with our technology or inability to implement technological changes may, therefore, result in delayed detection of market trends and conditions. An inability to implement, maintain and continue enhancing our technologies effectively, or to adapt to other technological changes in the industry, could significantly harm our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate, thereby subjecting us and our business to substantial environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third persons for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with the investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. This could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Terrorist activities could cause reductions in investor confidence and substantial volatility in real estate and securities markets. It is impossible to predict the extent to which terrorist activities may occur in the United States or abroad, or their effect on a particular security issue. It is also uncertain what effects any past or future terrorist activities will have on local, regional and national economies and real estate markets. Reduced investor confidence, among other things, could result in substantial volatility in the securities markets, which may in turn affect interest rates. Change in interest rates could materially affect our net interest spread and margin, asset quality, organization volume and our overall profitability. 66 Table of Contents We may change our business and operational policies in ways that harm our financial condition or results of operations. Our underwriting process and guidelines and our investment and financing policies and our policies with respect to other activities, including our growth, debt capitalization, distributions and operating policies are determined by our board of directors. Our board of directors may change these policies at any time without a vote of our stockholders. A change in these policies might harm our financial condition, results of operations or business prospects. We rely on Federal Home Loan Bank system borrowings for secondary and contingent liquidity sources. We utilize borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) system for secondary and contingent sources of liquidity. Also, from time to time, we utilize this borrowing source to capitalize on market opportunities to fund investment and loan initiatives. Our FHLB system borrowings were $600.0 million at March 31, 2008. If we were unable to borrow from the FHLB system, we would have to find alternative sources of liquidity which, if available, would probably be at a higher cost and on terms that do not match the structure of our liabilities as well as FHLB system borrowings do. We have had fluctuations in our quarterly results and may continue to have fluctuations in our quarterly results. Our financial results are subject to significant quarterly fluctuations as a result of, among other things, the variance in the number and magnitude of purchases and sales of loans and/or servicing rights consummated by us from time to time. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, some of which are outside of our control, including general economic conditions, economic conditions in the financial industry, the effects of governmental regulations and regulatory changes, capital expenditures and other costs relating to the expansion of operations, the introduction of new services by us or our competitors and the mix of services sold. In response to a changing competitive environment, we may elect from time to time to make certain pricing, service, or marketing decisions or enter into strategic alliances or make investments that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. Accordingly, our results of operations for any particular quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for any succeeding quarter or for the full fiscal year. 67 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 