ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain expectations and projections regarding our future performance referenced in this report, in other materials we file with the SEC or otherwise release to the public, and on our website are forward-looking statements. Senior officers may also make verbal statements to analysts, investors, regulators, the media and others that are forward-looking. Forward-looking statements involve matters that are not historical facts, such as statements in “Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere regarding our future operations, prospects, strategies, financial condition, economic performance (including growth and earnings), industry conditions and demand for our products and services. We have tried, whenever possible, to identify these statements by using words such as "anticipate," "assume," “believe,” "can," "could," "estimate," "expect," "forecast," "future," “goal,” "indicate," "intend," "may," “outlook,” "plan," “potential,” "predict," "project,” "seek," "should," "target," "would," and similar expressions. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are based on currently available competitive, financial and economic data along with our operating plans. While we believe that our expectations for the future are reasonable in view of the currently available information, our expectations are subject to future events, risks and inherent uncertainties, as well as potentially inaccurate assumptions, and there are numerous factors - many beyond our control - that could cause results to differ significantly from our expectations. Such events, risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to those set forth below and in the other documents that we file with the SEC. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. There also may be other factors that we cannot anticipate or that are not described in this report, generally because we do not perceive them to be material, which could cause results to differ significantly from our expectations. Forward-looking statements are only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update these statements to reflect subsequent circumstances or events. You are advised, however, to review any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports to the SEC. Risks Related to Our Business Risks related to the regulation of our businesses could affect the rates we are able to charge, our costs and our profitability. Our businesses are subject to regulation by federal, state and local regulatory authorities. In particular, at the federal level our businesses are regulated by the FERC. At the state level, our businesses are regulated by the Georgia, Tennessee, New Jersey, Florida, Virginia and Maryland Commissions. These authorities regulate many aspects of our operations, including construction and maintenance of facilities, operations, safety, rates that we charge customers, rates of return, the authorized cost of capital, recovery of pipeline replacement and environmental remediation costs, relationships with our affiliates, and carrying costs we charge Marketers selling retail natural gas in Georgia for gas held in storage for their customer accounts. Our ability to obtain rate increases and rate supplements to maintain our current rates of return and recover regulatory assets and liabilities recorded in accordance with SFAS 71 depends on regulatory discretion, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain rate increases or rate supplements or continue receiving our currently authorized rates of return including the recovery of our regulatory assets and liabilities. In addition, if we fail to comply with applicable regulations, we could be subject to fines, penalties or other enforcement action by the authorities that regulate our operations, or otherwise be subject to material costs and liabilities. GLOSSARY OF TERMS 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS Deregulation in the natural gas industry is the separation of the provision and pricing of local distribution gas services into discrete components. Deregulation typically focuses on the separation of the gas distribution business from the gas sales business and is intended to cause the opening of the formerly regulated sales business to alternative unregulated suppliers of gas sales services. In 1997, the Georgia legislature enacted the Deregulation Act. To date, Georgia is the only state in the nation that has fully deregulated gas distribution operations, which ultimately resulted in Atlanta Gas Light exiting the retail natural gas sales business while retaining its gas distribution operations. Marketers, including our majority-owned subsidiary, SouthStar, then assumed the retail gas sales responsibility at deregulated prices. The deregulation process required Atlanta Gas Light to completely reorganize its operations and personnel at significant expense. It is possible that the legislature could reverse or amend portions of the deregulation process. Our business is subject to environmental regulation in all jurisdictions in which we operate, and our costs to comply are significant. Any changes in existing environmental regulation could affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our operations and properties are subject to extensive environmental regulation pursuant to a variety of federal, state and municipal laws and regulations. Such environmental legislation imposes, among other things, restrictions, liabilities and obligations in connection with storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of hazardous substances and waste and in connection with spills, releases and emissions of various substances into the environment. Environmental legislation also requires that our facilities, sites and other properties associated with our operations be operated, maintained, abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities. Our current costs to comply with these laws and regulations are significant to our results of operations and financial condition. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations and failure to obtain any required permits and licenses may expose us to fines, penalties or interruptions in our operations that could be material to our results of operations. In addition, claims against us under environmental laws and regulations could result in material costs and liabilities. Existing environmental regulations could also be revised or reinterpreted, new laws and regulations could be adopted or become applicable to us or our facilities, and future changes in environmental laws and regulations could occur. With the trend toward stricter standards, greater regulation, more extensive permit requirements and an increase in the number and types of assets operated by us subject to environmental regulation, our environmental expenditures could increase in the future, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from our customers. Additionally, the discovery of presently unknown environmental conditions could give rise to expenditures and liabilities, including fines or penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We may be exposed to certain regulatory and financial risks related to climate change. Climate change is receiving ever increasing attention from scientists and legislators alike. The debate is ongoing as to the extent to which our climate is changing, the potential causes of this change and its potential impacts. Some attribute global warming to increased levels of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. The international treaty relating to global warming (commonly known as the Kyoto Protocol) would have required reductions in emissions of greenhouse gases, primarily carbon dioxide and methane. The Kyoto Protocol became effective (without ratification by the U.S.) in February 2005. Presently there are no federally mandated greenhouse gas reduction requirements in the U.S. as current policy favors voluntary reductions, increased operating efficiency and continued research and technology development. The likelihood of any federal mandatory carbon dioxide emissions reduction program being adopted in the near future and the specific requirements of any such program is uncertain. However, President Obama has stated that to combat global warming he will propose reducing greenhouse gas emissions to 1990 levels by 2020 and further reduce levels an additional 80% by 2050. He is also expected to push an economic stimulus package that is heavily weighted towards the energy sector. GLOSSARY OF TERMS 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS There are a number of other legislative and regulatory proposals to address greenhouse gas emissions, which are in various phases of discussion or implementation. The outcome of federal and state actions to address global climate change could result in a variety of regulatory programs including potential new regulations, additional charges to fund energy efficiency activities, or other regulatory actions. These actions could: · result in increased costs associated with our operations · increase other costs to our business · affect the demand for natural gas, and · impact the prices we charge our customers. Because natural gas is a fossil fuel with low carbon content, it is possible that future carbon constraints could create additional demand for natural gas, both for production of electricity and direct use in homes and businesses. Any adoption by federal or state governments mandating a substantial reduction in greenhouse gas emissions could have far-reaching and significant impacts on the energy industry. We cannot predict the potential impact of such laws or regulations on our future consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our infrastructure improvement and customer growth may be restricted by the capital-intensive nature of our business. We must construct additions to our natural gas distribution system to continue the expansion of our customer base. We may also need to construct expansions of our existing natural gas storage facilities or develop and construct new natural gas storage facilities. The cost of this construction may be affected by the cost of obtaining government and other approvals, development project delays, adequacy of supply of diversified vendors, or unexpected changes in project costs. Weather, general economic conditions and the cost of funds to finance our capital projects can materially alter the cost, and projected construction schedule and completion timeline of a project. Our cash flows may not be fully adequate to finance the cost of this construction. As a result, we may be required to fund a portion of our cash needs through borrowings or the issuance of common stock, or both. For our distribution operations segment, this may limit our ability to expand our infrastructure to connect new customers due to limits on the amount we can economically invest, which shifts costs to potential customers and may make it uneconomical for them to connect to our distribution systems. For our natural gas storage business, this may significantly reduce our earnings and return on investment from what would be expected for this business, or may impair our ability to complete the expansions or development projects. Transporting and storing natural gas involves numerous risks that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs. Our gas distribution and storage activities involve a variety of inherent hazards and operating risks, such as leaks, accidents and mechanical problems, which could cause substantial financial losses. In addition, these risks could result in loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution and impairment of our operations, which in turn could lead to substantial losses to us. In accordance with customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. The location of pipelines and storage facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. The occurrence of any of these events not fully covered by insurance could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. We face increasing competition, and if we are unable to compete effectively, our revenues, operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected which may limit our ability to grow our business. The natural gas business is highly competitive, and we are facing increasing competition from other companies that supply energy, including electric companies, oil and propane providers and, in some cases, energy marketing and trading companies. In particular, the success of our investment in SouthStar is affected by the competition SouthStar faces from other energy marketers providing retail natural gas services in the Southeast. Natural gas competes with other forms of energy. The primary competitive factor is price. Changes in the price or availability of natural gas relative to other forms of energy and the ability of end-users to convert to alternative fuels affect the demand for natural gas. In the case of commercial, industrial and agricultural customers, adverse economic conditions, including higher gas costs, could also cause these customers to bypass or disconnect from our systems in favor of special competitive contracts with lower per-unit costs. GLOSSARY OF TERMS 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our wholesale services segment competes with national and regional full-service energy providers, energy merchants and producers and pipelines for sales based on our ability to aggregate competitively priced commodities with transportation and storage capacity. Some of our competitors are larger and better capitalized than we are and have more national and global exposure than we do. The consolidation of this industry and the pricing to gain market share may affect our operating margin. We expect this trend to continue in the near term, and the increasing competition for asset management deals could result in downward pressure on the volume of transactions and the related operating margin available in this portion of Sequent’s business. The continuation of recent economic conditions could adversely affect our customers and negatively impact our financial results. The slowdown in the U.S. economy, along with increased mortgage defaults, and significant decreases in new home construction, home values and investment assets, has adversely impacted the financial well-being of many U.S. households. We cannot predict if the administrative and legislative actions to address this situation will be successful in reducing the severity or duration of this recession. As a result, our customers may use less gas in future heating seasons and it may become more difficult for them to pay their natural gas bills. This may slow collections and lead to higher than normal levels of accounts receivables, bad debt and financing requirements. A significant portion of our accounts receivable is subject to collection risks, due in part to a concentration of credit risk in Georgia and at Sequent. We have accounts receivable collection risk in Georgia due to a concentration of credit risk related to the provision of natural gas services to Marketers. At December 31, 2008, Atlanta Gas Light had 11 certificated and active Marketers in Georgia, four of which (based on customer count and including SouthStar) accounted for approximately 31% of our consolidated operating margin for 2008. As a result, Atlanta Gas Light depends on a concentrated number of customers for revenues. The provisions of Atlanta Gas Light’s tariff allow it to obtain security support in an amount equal to no less than two times a Marketer’s highest month’s estimated bill in the form of cash deposits, letters of credit, surety bonds or guaranties. The failure of these Marketers to pay Atlanta Gas Light could adversely affect Atlanta Gas Light’s business and results of operations and expose it to difficulties in collecting Atlanta Gas Light’s accounts receivable. AGL Resources provides a guarantee to Atlanta Gas Light as security support for SouthStar. Additionally, SouthStar markets directly to end-use customers and has periodically experienced credit losses as a result of severe cold weather or high prices for natural gas that increase customers’ bills and, consequently, impair customers’ ability to pay. Sequent often extends credit to its counterparties. Despite performing credit analyses prior to extending credit and seeking to effectuate netting agreements, Sequent is exposed to the risk that it may not be able to collect amounts owed to it. If the counterparty to such a transaction fails to perform and any collateral Sequent has secured is inadequate, Sequent could experience material financial losses. Further, Sequent has a concentration of credit risk, which could subject a significant portion of its credit exposure to collection risks. Approximately 63% of Sequent’s credit exposure is concentrated in its top 20 counterparties. Most of this concentration is with counterparties that are either load-serving utilities or end-use customers that have supplied some level of credit support. Default by any of these counterparties in their obligations to pay amounts due Sequent could result in credit losses that would negatively impact our wholesale services segment. The asset management arrangements between Sequent and our local distribution companies, and between Sequent and its nonaffiliated customers, may not be renewed or may be renewed at lower levels, which could have a significant impact on Sequent’s business. Sequent currently manages the storage and transportation assets of our affiliates Atlanta Gas Light, Chattanooga Gas, Elizabethtown Gas, Elkton Gas, Florida City Gas, and Virginia Natural Gas and shares profits it earns from the management of those assets with those customers and their respective customers, except at Elkton Gas where Sequent is assessed annual fixed-fees payable in monthly installments. Entry into and renewal of these agreements are subject to regulatory approval and one is subject to renewal in 2009. In addition, Sequent has asset management agreements with certain nonaffiliated customers. Sequent’s results could be significantly impacted if these agreements are not renewed or are amended or renewed with less favorable terms. We are exposed to market risk and may incur losses in wholesale services and retail energy operations. The commodity, storage and transportation portfolios at Sequent and the commodity and storage portfolios at SouthStar consist of contracts to buy and sell natural gas commodities, including contracts that are settled by the delivery of the commodity or cash. If the values of these contracts change in a direction or manner that we do not anticipate, we could experience financial losses from our trading activities. Based on a 95% confidence interval and employing a 1-day holding period for all positions, Sequent’s and SouthStar’s portfolio of positions as of December 31, 2008 had a 1-day holding period VaR of $2.5 million and less than $0.1 million, respectively. GLOSSARY OF TERMS 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our accounting results may not be indicative of the risks we are taking or the economic results we expect for wholesale services. Although Sequent enters into various contracts to hedge the value of our energy assets and operations, the timing of the recognition of profits or losses on the hedges does not always correspond to the profits or losses on the item being hedged. The difference in accounting can result in volatility in Sequent’s reported results, even though the expected operating margin is essentially unchanged from the date the transactions were initiated. Changes in weather conditions may affect our earnings. Weather conditions and other natural phenomena can have a large impact on our earnings. Severe weather conditions can impact our suppliers and the pipelines that deliver gas to our distribution system. Extended mild weather, during either the winter or summer period, can have a significant impact on demand for and cost of natural gas. We have a WNA mechanism for Elizabethtown Gas and Chattanooga Gas that partially offsets the impact of unusually cold or warm weather on residential and commercial customer billings and our operating margin. At Elizabethtown Gas we could be required to return a portion of any WNA surcharge to its customers if Elizabethtown Gas’ return on equity exceeds its authorized return on equity of 10%. Additionally, Virginia Natural Gas has a WNA mechanism for its residential customers that partially offsets the impact of unusually cold or warm weather. In September 2007, the Virginia Commission approved Virginia Natural Gas’ application for an Experimental Weather Normalization Adjustment Rider (the Rider) for its commercial customers. The Rider applies to the 2007 and 2008 heating seasons, with an opportunity for Virginia Natural Gas to extend the Rider for additional years. These WNA regulatory mechanisms are most effective in a reasonable temperature range relative to normal weather using historical averages. The protection afforded by the WNA depends on continued regulatory approval. The loss of this continued regulatory approval could make us more susceptible to weather-related earnings fluctuations. Changes in weather conditions may also impact SouthStar’s earnings. As a result, SouthStar uses a variety of weather derivative instruments to stabilize the impact on its operating margin in the event of warmer or colder than normal weather in the winter months. However, these instruments do not fully protect SouthStar’s earnings from the effects of unusually warm or cold weather. A decrease in the availability of adequate pipeline transportation capacity could reduce our revenues and profits. Our gas supply depends on the availability of adequate pipeline transportation and storage capacity. We purchase a substantial portion of our gas supply from interstate sources. Interstate pipeline companies transport the gas to our system. A decrease in interstate pipeline capacity available to us or an increase in competition for interstate pipeline transportation and storage service could reduce our normal interstate supply of gas. Our profitability may decline if the counterparties to Sequent’s asset management transactions fail to perform in accordance with Sequent’s agreements. Sequent focuses on capturing the value from idle or underutilized energy assets, typically by executing transactions that balance the needs of various markets and time horizons. Sequent is exposed to the risk that counterparties to our transactions will not perform their obligations. Should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we might be forced to enter into alternative hedging arrangements, honor the underlying commitment at then-current market prices or return a significant portion of the consideration received for gas. In such events, we might incur additional losses to the extent of amounts, if any, already paid to or received from counterparties. We could incur additional material costs for the environmental condition of some of our assets, including former manufactured gas plants. We are generally responsible for all on-site and certain off-site liabilities associated with the environmental condition of the natural gas assets that we have operated, acquired or developed, regardless of when the liabilities arose and whether they are or were known or unknown. In addition, in connection with certain acquisitions and sales of assets, we may obtain, or be required to provide, indemnification against certain environmental liabilities. Before natural gas was widely available, we manufactured gas from coal and other fuels. Those manufacturing operations were known as MGPs, which we ceased operating in the 1950s. We have identified ten sites in Georgia and three in Florida where we own all or part of an MGP site. We are required to investigate possible environmental contamination at those MGP sites and, if necessary, clean up any contamination. As of December 31, 2008, the soil and sediment remediation program was complete for all Georgia sites, although groundwater cleanup continues. As of December 31, 2008, projected costs associated with the MGP sites associated with Atlanta Gas Light were $38 million. For elements of the MGP program where we still cannot provide engineering cost estimates, considerable variability remains in future cost estimates. GLOSSARY OF TERMS 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS In addition, we are associated with former sites in New Jersey, North Carolina and other states. Material cleanups of these sites have not been completed nor are precise estimates available for future cleanup costs and therefore considerable variability remains in future cost estimates. For the New Jersey sites, cleanup cost estimates range from $58 million to $116 million. Costs have been estimated for only one of the non-New Jersey sites, for which current estimates range from $10 million to $20 million. Inflation and increased gas costs could adversely impact our ability to control operating expenses, increase our level of indebtedness and adversely impact our customer base. Inflation has caused increases in certain operating expenses that have required us to replace assets at higher costs. We attempt to control costs in part through implementation of best practices and business process improvements, many of which are facilitated through investments in information systems and technology. We have a process in place to continually review the adequacy of our utility gas rates in relation to the increasing cost of providing service and the inherent regulatory lag in adjusting those gas rates. Historically, we have been able to budget and control operating expenses and investments within the amounts authorized to be collected in rates, and we intend to continue to do so. However, any inability by us to control our expenses in a reasonable manner would adversely influence our future results. Rapid increases in the price of purchased gas cause us to experience a significant increase in short-term debt because we must pay suppliers for gas when it is purchased, which can be significantly in advance of when these costs may be recovered through the collection of monthly customer bills for gas delivered. Increases in purchased gas costs also slow our utility collection efforts as customers are more likely to delay the payment of their gas bills, leading to higher-than-normal accounts receivable. This situation results in higher short-term debt levels and increased bad debt expense. Should the price of purchased gas increase significantly during the upcoming heating season, we would expect increases in our short-term debt, accounts receivable and bad debt expense during 2009. Finally, higher costs of natural gas in recent years have already caused many of our utility customers to conserve in the use of our gas services and could lead to even more customers utilizing such conservation methods or switching to other competing products. The higher costs have also allowed competition from products utilizing alternative energy sources for applications that have traditionally used natural gas, encouraging some customers to move away from natural gas fired equipment to equipment fueled by other energy sources. The cost of providing pension and postretirement health care benefits to eligible employees and qualified retirees is subject to changes in pension fund values and changing demographics and may have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We have defined benefit pension and postretirement health care plans for the benefit of substantially all full-time employees and qualified retirees. The cost of providing these benefits to eligible current and former employees is subject to changes in the market value of our pension fund assets, changing demographics, including longer life expectancy of beneficiaries, changes in health care cost trends, and an expected increase in the number of eligible former employees over the next five years. Any sustained declines in equity markets and reductions in bond yields may have a material adverse effect on the value of our pension funds. In these circumstances, we may be required to recognize an increased pension expense or a charge to our other comprehensive income to the extent that the pension fund values are less than the total anticipated liability under the plans. Market declines in the second half of 2008 resulted in significant losses in the value of our pension fund assets. As a result, based on the current funding status of the plans, we would be required to make a minimum contribution to the plans of approximately $7 million in 2009. We are planning to make additional contributions in 2009 up to $61 million for a total of up to $68 million, in order to preserve the current level of benefits under the plans and in accordance with the funding requirements of the Pension Protection Act. As of December 31, 2008 our pension plans assets represented 54% or our total pension plan obligations. For more information regarding some of these obligations, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the caption “Contractual Obligations and Commitments” and the subheading “Pension and Postretirement Obligations” and Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements. Natural disasters, terrorist activities and the potential for military and other actions could adversely affect our businesses. Natural disasters may damage our assets. The threat of terrorism and the impact of retaliatory military and other action by the United States and its allies may lead to increased political, economic and financial market instability and volatility in the price of natural gas that could affect our operations. In addition, future acts of terrorism could be directed against companies operating in the United States, and companies in the energy industry may face a heightened risk of exposure to acts of terrorism. These developments have subjected our operations to increased risks. The insurance industry has also been disrupted by these events. As a result, the availability of insurance covering risks against which we and our competitors typically insure may be limited. In addition, the insurance we are able to obtain may have higher deductibles, higher premiums and more restrictive policy terms. GLOSSARY OF TERMS 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS Risks Related to Our Corporate and Financial Structure We depend on our ability to successfully access the capital and financial markets. Any inability to access the capital or financial markets may limit our ability to execute our business plan or pursue improvements that we may rely on for future growth. We rely on access to both short-term money markets (in the form of commercial paper and lines of credit) and long-term capital markets as a source of liquidity for capital and operating requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from our operations. If we are not able to access financial markets at competitive rates, our ability to implement our business plan and strategy will be negatively affected, and we may be forced to postpone, modify or cancel capital projects. Certain market disruptions may increase our cost of borrowing or affect our ability to access one or more financial markets. Such market disruptions could result from: · adverse economic conditions · adverse general capital market conditions · poor performance and health of the utility industry in general · bankruptcy or financial distress of unrelated energy companies or Marketers · significant decrease in the demand for natural gas · adverse regulatory actions that affect our local gas distribution companies and our natural gas storage business · terrorist attacks on our facilities or our suppliers, or · extreme weather conditions. The continued disruption in the credit markets could limit our ability to access capital and increase our cost of capital. The global credit markets have been experiencing significant disruption and volatility in recent months. In some cases, the ability or willingness of traditional sources of capital to provide financing has been reduced. Historically, we have accessed the commercial paper markets to finance our short-term working capital requirements, but the disruption in the credit markets has limited our access to the commercial paper markets at reasonable interest rates. Consequently, we have borrowed directly under our Credit Facilities for our working capital needs. As of December 31, 2008, we had $273 million in commercial paper outstanding and $500 million outstanding under our Credit Facilities. During 2008, our borrowings under these facilities along with our commercial paper were used primarily to purchase natural gas inventories for the current winter heating season. The amount of our working capital requirements in the near-term will depend primarily on the market price of natural gas and weather. Higher natural gas prices may adversely impact our accounts receivable collections and may require us to increase borrowings under our credit facilities to fund our operations. While we believe we can meet our capital requirements from our operations and the sources of financing available to us, we can provide no assurance that we will continue to be able to do so in the future, especially if the market price of natural gas increases significantly in the near-term. The future effects on our business, liquidity and financial results of a continuation of current market conditions could be material and adverse to us, both in the ways described above, or in ways that we do not currently anticipate. If we breach any of the financial covenants under our various credit facilities, our debt service obligations could be accelerated. Our existing Credit Facilities and the SouthStar line of credit contain financial covenants. If we breach any of the financial covenants under these agreements, our debt repayment obligations under them could be accelerated. In such event, we may not be able to refinance or repay all our indebtedness, which would result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. A downgrade in our credit rating could negatively affect our ability to access capital. Our senior unsecured debt is currently assigned a rating of BBB+ by S&P, Baa1 by Moody’s and A- by Fitch. Our commercial paper currently is rated A2 by S&P, P2 by Moody’s and F2 by Fitch. If the rating agencies downgrade our ratings, particularly below investment grade, it may significantly limit our access to the commercial paper market and our borrowing costs would increase. In addition, we would likely be required to pay a higher interest rate in future financings and our potential pool of investors and funding sources would likely decrease. GLOSSARY OF TERMS 22 TABLE OF CONTENTS Additionally, if our credit rating by either S&P or Moody’s falls to non-investment grade status, we will be required to provide additional support for certain customers of our wholesale business. As of December 31, 2008, if our credit rating had fallen below investment grade, we would have been required to provide collateral of approximately $12 million to continue conducting our wholesale services business with certain counterparties. We are vulnerable to interest rate risk with respect to our debt, which could lead to changes in interest expense and adversely affect our earnings. We are subject to interest rate risk in connection with the issuance of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt. In order to maintain our desired mix of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt, we may use interest rate swap agreements and exchange fixed-rate and variable-rate interest payment obligations over the life of the arrangements, without exchange of the underlying principal amounts. See Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” We cannot ensure that we will be successful in structuring such swap agreements to manage our risks effectively. If we are unable to do so, our earnings may be reduced. In addition, higher interest rates, all other things equal, reduce the earnings that we derive from transactions where we capture the difference between authorized returns and short-term borrowings. We are a holding company and are dependent on cash flow from our subsidiaries, which may not be available in the amounts and at the times we need. A portion of our outstanding debt was issued by our wholly-owned subsidiary, AGL Capital, which we fully and unconditionally guarantee. Since we are a holding company and have no operations separate from our investment in our subsidiaries, we are dependent on cash in the form of dividends or other distributions from our subsidiaries to meet our cash requirements. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends and make other distributions is subject to applicable state law. Refer to Item 5, “Market for the Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities” for additional dividend restriction information. The use of derivative contracts in the normal course of our business could result in financial losses that negatively impact our results of operations. We use derivatives, including futures, forwards and swaps, to manage our commodity and financial market risks. We could recognize financial losses on these contracts as a result of volatility in the market values of the underlying commodities or if a counterparty fails to perform under a contract. In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these financial instruments can involve management’s judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could adversely affect the value of the reported fair value of these contracts. As a result of cross-default provisions in our borrowing arrangements, we may be unable to satisfy all our outstanding obligations in the event of a default on our part. Our Credit Facilities under which our debt is issued contains cross-default provisions. Accordingly, should an event of default occur under some of our debt agreements, we face the prospect of being in default under other of our debt agreements, obliged in such instance to satisfy a large portion of our outstanding indebtedness and unable to satisfy all our outstanding obligations simultaneously. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We do not have any unresolved comments from the SEC staff regarding our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. ITEM 