D. Risk Factors The following summarizes certain risks that may materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to our Business We are highly leveraged, with indebtedness that is substantial in relation to our shareholders’ equity and significant debt service that could have a material adverse effect on our continuing liquidity and financial condition. As of December 31, 2007, our total bank debt was approximately $150 million. Prior to our December 2006 debt restructuring, we had to repeatedly seek extensions of principal payment dates and bank waivers due to our inability to meet debt coverage covenants. Our ability to be in compliance with the debt covenants under the debt restructuring agreement with our bank is subject to the risk factors described below, and any failure to comply with the covenants could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and operations. $30 million of our bank borrowings bear interest at the three month LIBOR rate plus 3% and the remainder at the three month LIBOR rate plus 1.5%. Our substantial debt requires us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to debt service, could impair our ability to obtain additional financing for capital expenditures or other purposes, could hinder our ability to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions and competitive pressures, and could make us more vulnerable in the event of a continued downturn in our business or further deterioration of general economic conditions. For further information concerning our indebtedness, see “Operating Results” and “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Item 5 below. An increase in LIBOR interest rates could materially adversely affect us. We require significant cash funds for our operations, and should we fail to generate or otherwise raise requisite funds, this could have a material adverse effect on our continuing liquidity and financial condition. Although we currently believe that internally generated funds, together with available cash will be sufficient to meet our presently anticipated day-to-day operating expenses, commitments, working capital, capital expenditure and debt payment requirements, we cannot assure you that this will be the case. In particular, the level of internally generated funds is subject to the risk factors described below, and must be viewed in light of our recent history of substantial operating and net losses and negative cash flow from operations. If we are unsuccessful in achieving our plans, we will need to seek additional sources of financing in order to continue operations. Such financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If additional financing were to be in the form of equity, it could result in substantial dilution to our shareholders as did our December 2006 recapitalization, as discussed in “2006 Recapitalization Plan” in Item 4.A below. We have a history of operating losses, and we may not achieve or maintain profitability. We incurred net losses for each of the last five years. Our net losses were approximately $120.7 million in 2003, $24.7 million in 2004, $11.2 million in 2005, $50.3 million in 2006 and $28.1 million in 2007. We may not be able to achieve profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If we are unable to achieve profitability, this will materially adversely affect our financial condition and the value of our shares. Most members of our senior management team are new to their positions and they may need time to acquire the requisite knowledge of our company and the specific skills necessary to carry out successfully the tasks required of them, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Nearly all members of our senior management, including our chief executive officer and our chief financial officer, have joined Lumenis since the beginning of 2007. Some of these individuals had little or no previous experience working in our industry. Should any members of our senior management fail to rise to the challenge of managing the development of our company, or fail to perform as expected, or should they or other new key managerial appointees fail to acquire the requisite knowledge and skills in a timely manner, our operations may be disrupted and this may adversely affect our results of our operations. For details of members of our senior management, see “Members of Our Senior Management” in Item 6.A below. Most of our products are mature and failure to introduce new product may adversely affect our business and operating results. Most of our products are mature and well tested and they, like the products of most of our competitors, are based upon existing technologies with frequent enhancements and upgrades. However, demand for our products could be significantly diminished were one or more of our competitors to introduce new products based upon new technologies that render our products obsolete. Also, particularly in the aesthetic market, there is a tendency among some of our competitors to introduce more frequently new products based upon existing technologies. Accordingly, our failure to introduce new products could reduce our share of the market and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 7 We may experience decreased revenues as a result of decreased demand for certain of our products during economic downturns. The markets in which we operate, including the vanity market for aesthetic procedures and the market for our higher priced products, are particularly vulnerable to an economic downturn, since the end users of our products may decrease the demand for our products when they have less discretionary income. Furthermore, in many instances, the ability of our customers to purchase our products depends in part upon the availability of bank financing at acceptable interest rates. Accordingly, during a credit squeeze, our sales could be materially adversely affected should our customers be unable to obtain the requisite financing for the purchase of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our management has determined that we have material weaknesses in our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal controls over financial reporting, which could adversely affect our ability to record, process, summarize and report certain financial data or transactions. As disclosed in detail in Item 15T of this annual report, our management performed an assessment of our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of the period covered by this annual report and determined that we had material weaknesses with respect to: — computer system access controls, change management and use of multiple systems; and — subsidiaries with insufficient number of professionally qualified accounting personnel. Until we are able to remedy these material weaknesses or if we are not successful in remedying these material weaknesses, there is a reasonable possibility that we may fail to disclose certain material information to the public in a timely manner and that our quarterly or annual financial statements could be materially misstated, which could require a restatement and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. This could lead to a decrease in the price of our shares. In addition, if we fail to implement an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our future financial results and our management may not be able to conclude that we have effective disclosure controls and procedures and effective internal controls over financial reporting as required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Further, as described in Item 15T of this annual report, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting was limited in certain respects. Accordingly, it is possible that additional control weaknesses or deficiencies may exist that our management has not identified. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will not in the future identify additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal control over financial reporting that we have not discovered to date. In the market for laser, light and radio frequency-based systems medical applications, we seek to replace traditional procedures and our business will suffer if we fail to educate customers or if the market does not develop as we expect. In many cases our products seek to replace traditional medical procedures, such as incisions for medical procedures, electrolysis for hair removal and drilling for dental treatments. We cannot be certain that a sufficiently broad-based market for our products will emerge among service providers and their patients or end-use customers. A significant proportion of both these groups may opt to continue with traditional procedures with which they are familiar rather than investing in high technology alternatives. We may not be successful in our effort to educate potential end-user customers about the benefits of IPL (intense pulsed light) laser and radio frequency-based systems. If our markets do not develop or develop more slowly than expected, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. The markets in which we sell our products are intensely competitive and increased competition could continue to cause reduced sales levels, reduced gross margins or the loss of market share and materially harm our business and results of operations. Competition in our markets is intense, and we expect it to increase. Competition arises from other light-based products as well as alternate technologies (not based upon laser technology). We also face competition from companies selling accessories to our products. Competitors range in size from small single product companies to large multifaceted corporations, which may have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than those available to us. Some of these competitors may have greater name recognition, broader product lines, larger customer bases, more extensive relationships with customers and the ability to devote greater resources than we can to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products. 8 Our major direct competitors in our principal markets are: in the aesthetic market, Alma Lasers Ltd., Aesthera Corp., Candela Corporation, Cutera Inc., Cynosure, Inc., Palomar Medical Technologies, Inc., Reliant Technologies Inc., Sciton Inc., Syneron Medical Ltd., and Thermage Inc.; in the surgical market, Deka and AMS (formerly Laserscope); and in the ophthalmic market, Ellex Medical Lasers Ltd., Carl Zeiss Meditech AG, Nidek Technologies Inc., and Iridex Corporation. The effect of increased competition could adversely affect our sales levels, gross margins and market share and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For additional information concerning our competitors, see “Business Overview” – “Competition” in Item 4.B below. Any business combinations or mergers among our competitors, forming larger competitors with greater resources, or the acquisition of a competitor by a major medical or technology corporation seeking to enter this business, could further result in increased competition and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We depend on collaborative relationships to develop, introduce and market new products, product enhancements and new applications. The failure of such arrangements or inability to enter into future such arrangements could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. We depend on both clinical and commercial collaborative relationships. We have entered into collaborative relationships with academic medical centers and physicians in connection with the research and innovation and clinical testing of our products. The failure to obtain any additional future clinical or commercial collaborations, or the failure of any such arrangements or of any current or future clinical or commercial collaboration relationships could have a material adverse effect on our ability to introduce new products or applications and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We face various risks in the manufacture of our products that could result in disruptions and other constraints on the manufacturing process that could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. The manufacture of our lasers and the related delivery devices is a highly complex and precise process. We assemble critical subassemblies and most of our final products at our facilities in Salt Lake City, Utah and Yokneam, Israel. In addition, we procure certain turn-key systems from several suppliers under original equipment manufacturer (OEM) agreements. We may experience manufacturing difficulties, quality issues or assembly constraints, both in respect of existing products and with regard to new products that we may introduce. We may not be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products, which may require that we qualify other manufacturers for our products. Furthermore, we may experience delays, disruptions, capacity constraints or quality problems in our manufacturing operations and, as a result, product shipments to our customers could be delayed, which could materially negatively affect our business and results of operations. We must control our operating expenses in order to achieve profitability and positive cash flow, and failure to do so may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. Our ability to minimize losses and return to positive cash flow is largely dependent on our ability to maintain efficient and cost-effective operations. In the first quarter of 2007, we began to implement a plan designed to streamline our operations.. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in our efforts and, if we do not succeed, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Some of our customers’ willingness to purchase our products depends on their ability to obtain reimbursement for medical procedures using our products, and our revenues could suffer from changes in third-party coverage and reimbursement policies. Our medical segment customers include doctors, clinics, hospitals and other health care providers whose willingness and ability to purchase our products depends in part upon their ability to obtain reimbursement for medical procedures using our products from third-party payers, including private insurance companies, and in the U.S. from health maintenance organizations, and federal, state and local government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. Third-party payers are increasingly scrutinizing health care costs submitted for reimbursement and may deny coverage and reimbursement for the medical procedures made possible by our products. Failure by our customers to obtain adequate reimbursement from third-party payers for medical procedures that use our products or changes in third-party coverage and reimbursement policies could have a material adverse effect on our sales, results of operations and financial condition. 9 The Israeli tax authority has advised us that in its view we did not meet the conditions required for certain tax benefits in 2000 and 2001, for which we had been eligible in prior years. If we are unsuccessful in our appeal against the tax assessment issued by the tax authorities in this respect or are unable to satisfy these conditions in the future, then we may be required to pay significant amounts of taxes to the Israeli tax authorities, our costs and taxes are likely to increase after we utilize available tax losses and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The Israeli tax authority, or ITA, has asserted that we are not eligible for certain tax benefits, primarily a favorable tax rate available to approved enterprises, under the Israeli Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 5719-1959, referred to as the “Investment Law”. The ITA has asserted that we filed incomplete local statutory financial statements for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2000 and 2001. In addition, the ITA has assessed tax on an alleged deemed dividend to a wholly-owned subsidiary out of our tax exempt earnings under our approved enterprise program for the same period. The ITA has issued tax assessments for the disallowed tax benefits and alleged deemed dividend in the aggregate amount of NIS 273 million (approximately $81 million based on the June 23, 2008 exchange rate), including interest and penalties. We have challenged the ITA’s position in court and intend to defend our position vigorously. We cannot assure you that we will prevail. If we are unsuccessful, this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition to the requirement to file audited financial statements with the ITA, our approved enterprise status imposes certain other requirements on us. If we do not meet these other requirements, these tax benefits, if any, may be cancelled and we could be required to refund any tax benefits that we have already received plus interest and penalties thereon. Additionally, if we increase our activities outside of Israel, for example, by future acquisitions, our increased activities might not be eligible for inclusion in Israeli tax benefit programs. See “Israeli Tax Considerations and Government Programs – Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments” in Item 4.B and “Approved Enterprise” in Item 5.A below. We and some of our subsidiaries have not filed or received final tax assessments for several years and we may be subject to additional and unexpected tax demands, interest and penalties, which may adversely affect our results of operations. We have not received a final assessment for tax in Israel since at least 1999 (see the immediate preceding risk factor). In addition, many of our statutory tax returns in the countries in which we operate or have operated have not been filed or have been filed only recently and we may be subject to tax audits and assessments by the applicable tax authorities. We cannot assure you that we will not be subject to future tax audits or significant assessments for tax (including value added tax), customs duties, penalties and other levies by applicable authorities. In such event, we may be required to pay additional amounts, as a result of which our results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Lack of adequate documentation in respect of certain transactions could result in unknown liabilities and penalties which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our records for earlier years, in particular the period through 2003, are to some extent incomplete and we have become aware, as part of our process for compliance with Interpretation No 48 issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, known as FIN 48, of undocumented transactions, primarily of an inter-company nature. For further information on FIN 48, see “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in Item 5.A, below. The lack of documentation also relates to certain non-active foreign subsidiaries. Such lack of documentation could expose us to unforeseen liabilities and penalties which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Each of LM Partners L.P. and Ofer Hi-Tech Investments Ltd. holds a significant portion of our shares, and their vote may determine the outcome of any matter brought to a shareholder vote. LM Partners L.P., part of the Viola Partners group, currently has voting power in respect of approximately 44.3% of the total voting rights in Lumenis (approximately 48.3% assuming exercise of all remaining warrants and options beneficially owned by LM Partners L.P. and its general partner) and Ofer Hi-Tech Investments Ltd. currently has voting power in respect of approximately 35.7% of the total voting rights in Lumenis (approximately 38.9% assuming exercise of all remaining warrants held by Ofer Hi-Tech Investments Ltd.). Each acquired their equity in Lumenis as part of our December 2006 recapitalization, including the exercise on June 4, 2007 of warrants issued pursuant to such recapitalization. The percentages for Ofer Hi-Tech Investments Ltd include voting rights in respect of approximately 2.1% of our outstanding shares held by a third party with whom Ofer Hi-Tech Investments Ltd. has entered into a voting agreement. The holdings of LM Partners L.P. and Ofer Hi-Tech Investments Ltd. will significantly increase upon the occurrence of certain adjustment events set forth in the terms of the December 2006 recapitalization. (For additional details, see “2006 Recapitalization Plan – Private Placement of Ordinary Shares and Warrants to the Investors” in Item 4.A and “Ownership of Major Shareholders” in Item 7.A below.) Although they purchased our ordinary shares separately and have not entered into any voting agreement between themselves with respect to our shares, they are collectively able to elect a majority of the members of our board of directors and if they vote in the same manner on any matter submitted to our shareholders for approval (for example, any amendment of our articles of association and any approval of a merger), their vote would determine the result on such matter. Their voting power and the concentration of voting power could have the effect of delaying or preventing acquisition of our company on terms that other shareholders might find attractive. 10 We have consented to the entry of a permanent civil injunction against future violations of theantifr aud, reporting, books and records and internal control provisions of the federal securities laws and related SEC rules. On April 26, 2006, the SEC brought a civil proceeding against us, Sagi Genger, our former Chief Operating Officer, and Kevin Morano, our former Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President for Marketing and Business Development, both of whom are no longer employed by us. Mr. S. Genger is the son of Arie Genger, one of our former directors and former Vice Chairman of the Board. The civil proceeding sought, among other things, an injunction against us, alleging violations of the antifraud and other provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws in connection with inappropriately recognizing revenue in our 2001, 2002 and 2003 financial statements. Concurrently with filing the civil action on April 26, 2006, the SEC approved a settlement with us and Mr. S. Genger. For additional information concerning this settlement, see under “Legal Proceedings” – “Civil Proceedings By SEC” in Item 8.A below. As part of that settlement, we entered into a consent order with the SEC, without admitting or denying the allegations, pursuant to which we consented to the entry of a permanent civil injunction against future violations of the antifraud, reporting, books and records and internal control provisions of the federal securities laws and related SEC rules. The consent order also disqualifies us from benefiting from the protection of the safe harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 with respect to forward-looking statements we make during the three-year period following our entry into the consent order. The existence of the permanent injunction under the consent order, and the lack of protection under the safe harbor with respect to forward-looking statements made during the three-year disqualification period, may limit our ability to defend against future claims, lawsuits and proceedings. In addition, as part of the settlement, the SEC revoked the registration of our shares registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act. As a result of the deregistration, our shares were not able to be quoted or traded in the United States until we re-registered our shares with the SEC. On May 1, 2007, we filed a registration statement under Section 12 of the Exchange Act. Following the re-registration of our shares under Section 12 of the Exchange Act, our shares are again eligible for quotation or trading in the United States. However, our shares remain unquoted and no trading has commenced on a national securities exchange and we are not aware of any other trading in our shares. We cannot assure you that our shares will be approved for quotation or trading on any securities exchange or that trading will recommence. We have not applied to list the shares on an exchange. As part of the settlement, we must also continue to cooperate with the SEC’s prosecution of its claims against Mr. Morano, who is contesting the allegations against him. Under the terms of their indemnification agreements, Mr. Morano and Mr. S. Genger may be entitled to indemnification to the fullest extent permitted by law, including advance of expenses up to the higher of (i) $250 million or (ii) 50% of the market value of the outstanding ordinary shares prior to the occurrence of the indemnifiable event. For additional information concerning indemnification of directors, see “Board Practices – Exculpation, Insurance and Indemnification of Directors and Officers” in Item 6.C below. We have been named in several class action securities lawsuits. As described under “Legal Proceedings” – “Securities Class Action Complaints” in Item 8.A below, we and several of our former executive officers and directors are the subject of lawsuits in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York by or (as class actions) on behalf of purchasers of our shares, generally alleging among other things that the defendants violated U.S. Federal securities laws by issuing materially false and misleading statements, thereby inflating the price of our shares. These actions were consolidated into a single class action, which we refer to as the principal securities class action, In April 2008, we entered into a Stipulation of Settlement in respect of the principal class action litigation, which was preliminarily approved by the court on May 7, 2008, with the hearing for final approval set for August 25, 2008. Pursuant to the settlement, we have agreed to make a settlement payment of $20.1 million, a substantial portion of which we expect to be contributed by our insurers. However, we cannot assure you that the proposed settlement will receive final court approval or that, even if such approval is forthcoming, the settlement will be finalized and implemented, or that the expected portion will be covered by our insurers. Due to the uncertainty and expense of continued litigation, we believe that the proposed settlement is in the best interests of Lumenis. 11 In addition to the above class action litigation, seventeen purchasers of our shares between September 2001 and February 2002, filed a complaint that was subsequently assigned as a related case to the judge who is presiding over the above-described consolidated class action cases. The amended complaint alleges that we and two former officers, Yacha Sutton and Sagi Genger, made material misrepresentations and/or omissions about our financial results and projections of future earnings, due, among other reasons, to the alleged improper recognition of revenue, and that defendants also overstated the benefits and the success of our acquisition of the medical division of Coherent, Inc. We cannot assure you that any portion of a settlement or judgment in this matter will be covered by insurance. We are unable to predict the final outcome of these lawsuits or their effect (if any) on our business. In addition, we have incurred and anticipate that we will continue to incur substantial legal expenses and some diversion of senior executives’ time in connection with the securities lawsuits. If we fail to forecast component and material requirements for our products accurately, we could incur additional costs and significant delays in shipments, which could result in loss of customers, or we may manufacture in excess of requirements and part of our inventory may later become obsolete or excessive, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operation. Due to market conditions, our customers and potential customers frequently require delivery of products within a relatively short time frame, and in certain instances we manufacture our products to be available “on the shelf” for immediate delivery. In order to meet such deadlines, we must accurately predict the demand for our products, the product mix and the lead times required to obtain the necessary components and materials. Lead times for components and materials that we order vary significantly and depend on various factors, including the specific supplier requirements, the size of the order, contract terms and current market demand for components. Due to the sophisticated nature of the components, some of our suppliers may need six months or more lead time. If we overestimate our component and material requirements, we may have excess inventory, which could lead to inventory obsolescence and associated impairments, which would increase our costs, impair our available liquidity and have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If we underestimate our component and material requirements, we may have inadequate inventory, which could interrupt and delay delivery of our products to our customers, expose us to penalties, strain our relationship with our customers, and, as a consequence, we may lose future sales to such customers. Any of these occurrences would negatively impact our net sales, business and operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may not be able to protect our proprietary technology, and its unauthorized use by a third party could materially adversely affect our competitive advantage, business and results of operations. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements, licenses, assignments of invention agreements and other restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. We have obtained and now hold approximately 250 patents worldwide and have applied for approximately 80 additional patents worldwide. Our patent applications may not be approved, and any patents that may be issued may not be adequate to protect our intellectual property. Additionally, any issued patents may be challenged by third parties and patents that we hold may be found by a judicial authority to be invalid or unenforceable. Other parties may independently develop similar or competing technology or design around any patents that may be issued to or held by us. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent the misappropriation of our intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries in which laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Moreover, if we lose any key personnel, we may not be able to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge or other trade secrets by those former employees. For additional details concerning our intellectual property, see “Business Overview” – “Patents and Intellectual Property” in Item 4.B below. If we are unable to maintain the security of our proprietary technology, it could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. If material patents were to expire prior to our developing and patenting successful innovations to replace such technology, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Patents filed both in the United States and Europe now generally have a life of twenty years from the filing date. Patents filed in the United States prior to June 1995 expire the later of twenty years from filing or seventeen years from the issue date. We hold several important patents that are due to expire in the next few years. If our expired patents are still material to our business at the time of expiration and we fail to develop and patent successful innovations before such patents expire, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 12 We are, or may become, subject to litigation regarding intellectual property rights, the results of which could seriously harm our business and materially adversely affect our results of operations. The laser and light-based systems industry is characterized by a very large number of patents, some of which may be of questionable scope, validity or enforceability, and some of which appear to overlap with other issued patents. As a result, there is a significant amount of uncertainty in the industry regarding patent protection and infringement. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights. We currently are, and in the future may continue to be, a party to claims and litigation as a result of alleged infringement by third parties of our intellectual property, and may also became subject to claims and litigation alleging infringement by us of third party intellectual property (see under “Legal Proceedings” in Item 8.A below). These claims and any resulting lawsuits, if resolved adversely to us, could subject us to significant liability for damages or invalidate or render unenforceable our intellectual property. In addition, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be applications now pending of which we are unaware, which may later result in issued patents that our products may infringe. If any of our products infringes a valid and enforceable patent, or if we wish to avoid potential intellectual property litigation on its alleged infringement, we could be prevented from selling that product unless we can obtain a license, which may be unavailable. Alternatively, we could be forced to pay substantial royalties, or redesign a product to avoid infringement. We also may not be successful in any attempt to redesign our product to avoid any alleged infringement. A successful claim of infringement against us or our failure or inability to develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed technology, on acceptable terms and on a timely basis, if at all, could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Furthermore, such lawsuits, regardless of their success, would likely be time-consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert management time and attention, which could seriously harm our business. We have in the past initiated and may in the future initiate, claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our intellectual property to protect our rights or to determine the scope and validity of our intellectual property or the intellectual property of competitors. These claims could result in costly litigation, patent invalidation and the diversion of our technical and management personnel and the final outcome may not be favorable to us. If we take any of these actions, our business and results of operations may be seriously harmed. We rely on our direct sales force and network of international distributors to sell our products and any failure to maintain our direct sales force and distributor relationships could harm our business. Our ability to sell our products and generate revenue depends upon our direct sales force and relationships with independent distributors. Our direct sales force consists of over 200 employees, and any failure to maintain such sales force could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. We maintain relationships with approximately 80 independent distributors internationally, selling our products into over 100 countries through our five regional sales and service centers for North America; Europe, the Middle East and Africa (or EMEA); China/Asia Pacific; Japan; and Latin America. We generally sell directly in the United States, the United Kingdom, France, Italy, Germany, Japan and China. In other countries, we generally grant our distributors exclusive territories for the sale of particular products in specified countries. The amount and timing of resources dedicated by our distributors to the sales of our products is not within our control. Our sales outside of the countries in which we sell directly are entirely dependent on the efforts of these third parties. If any distributor breaches its agreement with us or fails to generate sales of our products, we may be forced to seek to replace the distributor and our ability to sell our products into that exclusive sales territory, and consequently our results of operations, could be materially adversely affected. We do not have any long-term employment contracts with the members of our direct sales force. We may be unable to replace our direct sales force personnel with individuals of equivalent technical expertise and qualifications, which may limit our revenues and our ability to maintain market share. The loss of the services of these key personnel would harm our business and results of operations. Similarly, our distributorship agreements are generally terminable at will by either party, and distributors may terminate their relationships with us, which would affect our international sales and results of operations. Our market is characterized by evolving technological changes and standards and changes in customer requirements, and, if we fail to keep up with such changes, our business and operating results will be materially adversely affected. Our industry is characterized by extensive research and development, technological change, frequent modifications and enhancements, innovations, new applications, evolving industry standards and changes in customer requirements. Our future success depends on our ability to keep up with these changes and anticipate our customers’ needs and develop and introduce product enhancements that address those needs. This will require us to design, develop, manufacture, assemble, test, market and support upgrades, enhancements and, where necessary, new products on a timely and cost-effective basis. It also requires continued substantial expenditure on research and development. Over the last three fiscal years, our research and development expenses have been in the range of 6% of our net revenues. Demand for our products could be significantly diminished by new technologies or products that replace them or render them obsolete. We cannot assure that we will successfully identify new technological opportunities and develop and bring new or enhanced products to market in a timely and cost-effective manner or at all or, if such products are introduced, that those products will achieve market acceptance. Our failure to do so and to address the technological changes and challenges in our markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 13 Our products are subject to U.S., E.U. and other national and international medical regulations and controls, compliance with which impose substantial financial costs on us and which can prevent or delay the introduction of new products, which could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our ability to sell our products is subject to various federal, state, national and international rules and regulations. In the United States, we are subject to inspection and market surveillance by the United States Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, to determine compliance with regulatory requirements. The regulatory process is costly, lengthy and uncertain. Unless an exemption applies, each device that we intend to market in the United States must receive prior review by the FDA before it can be marketed. Certain products qualify for a Section 510(k) procedure under which the manufacturer provides the FDA with pre-market notification of its intention to commence marketing the product. The manufacturer must, among other things, establish that the product to be marketed is “substantially equivalent” to a previously marketed medical device. In some cases, the manufacturer may be required to include clinical data gathered under an investigational device exemption, or IDE, granted by the FDA allowing human clinical studies. The FDA’s 510(k) clearance process usually takes from four to twelve months, but it can take longer. If the product does not qualify for the 510(k) procedure, the manufacturer must file a pre-market approval application, or PMA, based on testing intended to demonstrate that the product is both safe and effective. The PMA requires more extensive clinical testing than the 510(k) procedure and generally involves a significantly longer FDA review process. Approval of a PMA allowing commercial sale of a product requires pre-clinical laboratory and animal tests and human clinical studies conducted under an IDE establishing safety and effectiveness. For products subject to pre-market approval, the regulatory process generally takes from one to three years or more and involves substantially greater risks and commitment of resources than the 510(k) clearance process. We may not be able to obtain necessary regulatory approvals or clearances on a timely basis, if at all, for any of our products under development and delays in receipt of or failure to receive such approvals or clearances could have a material adverse effect on our business. Following clearance or approval, marketed products are subject to continuing regulation. We are required to adhere to the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR, and similar regulations in other countries, which include design, testing, quality control and documentation requirements. Ongoing compliance with QSR, labeling and other applicable regulatory requirements is monitored through periodic inspections and market surveillance by the FDA and by comparable agencies in other countries. Our failure to comply with applicable requirements could lead to an enforcement action, which could have an adverse effect on our business. The FDA can institute a wide variety of enforcement actions, ranging from a public warning letter to more severe sanctions such as: — Fines, injunctions and civil penalties; — Recall or seizure of our products; — Requiring us to repair, replace or refund the cost of our products; — The issuance of public notices or warnings; — Operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production; — Refusal of our requests for 510(k) clearance pre-market approval of new products; — Withdrawal of 510(k) clearance or pre-market approvals already granted; and — Criminal prosecution. Similarly, the European Union, or E.U., determined in 1998 that the marketing or selling of any medical product or device within the European Union necessitates a CE Mark. We are now required to comply with the European Medical Device Directive’s criteria and obtain the CE Mark prior to the sale of our medical products in any E.U. Member State. The European Medical Device Directive sets out specific requirements for each stage in the development of a medical product, from design to final inspection. Our products are subject to additional similar regulations in most of the international markets in which we sell our products. Changes to existing U.S., E.U. and other national and international rules and regulations could adversely affect our ability to sell our current and future lines of products in the United States, the European Union and internationally, increase our costs and materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. 14 The E.U. has issued directives relating to the sale in member countries of certain equipment, including products sold by us. If our products fail to comply with these directives, as well as similar regulations issued by other countries in which we carry on business, we could be subject to penalties and sanctions that could materially adversely affect our business. In 2003, the E.U. approved a directive on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment, or WEEE, that promotes waste recovery with a view to reducing the quantity of waste for disposal and saving natural resources, in particular by reuse, recycling, composting and recovering energy from waste. The directive, which went into effect in August 2005, requires that all new electrical and electronic equipment placed for sale in the E.U. be appropriately labeled regarding waste disposal and contains other obligations regarding the collection and recycling of waste electrical and electronic equipment. Our products fall within the scope of the WEEE directive, with which we are not currently compliant. A further directive issued by the E.U., on the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment, or RoHS, generally came into effect on July 1, 2006. Although RoHS does not currently apply to our products and other medical equipment, it is anticipated that such products may need to be in compliance by 2012. The RoHS directive lists a number of substances, including, among others, lead, mercury, cadmium and hexavalent chromium, which must either be removed from, or reduced to within maximum permitted concentrations in, products that are sold within the E.U. Other countries in which we have significant sales, in particular China, have introduced regulations similar, although not identical to RoHS, and we anticipate that additional countries will also do so. If our products fail to comply with WEEE or RoHS directives or any other directive or regulations issued from time to time by the E.U. and other countries, we could be subject to heavy penalties and other sanctions that could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may experience a decline in selling prices of our products as competition increases, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. We have in the past experienced decreases in the average selling prices of some of our products. As competing products become more widely available, the average selling price of our products may decrease. Trends toward managed care, health care cost containment and other changes in government and private sector initiatives in the United States and other countries in which we do business are placing increased emphasis on the delivery of more cost-effective medical therapies, which could also adversely affect prices of our products. If we are unable to offset the anticipated decrease in our average selling prices by increasing our sales volumes, our net sales will decline. In addition, to maintain our gross margins, we must continue to reduce the cost of manufacturing our products. Further, as average selling prices of our current products decline, we must develop and introduce new products and product enhancements with higher margins. If we cannot maintain our net sales and gross margins, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected, particularly if the average selling prices of our products decrease significantly. Our dependence on a limited number of suppliers, and in some cases, a sole source supplier for a key component, exposes us to possible supply interruptions that could delay or prevent the manufacture of our systems and materially adversely affect our business. Certain key components used in our products are manufactured or assembled by a limited number of suppliers or subcontractors, and in certain cases, we purchase such components from a single source. These components may not be available in the future or we may not accurately forecast our component requirements sufficiently in advance. In addition, if we experience an increase in demand for our products, our suppliers may be unable to provide us with the components we need in order to meet that increased demand. Furthermore, as our products are regulated as medical products, changing suppliers, work processes or procedures can be an extremely burdensome and time-consuming process. An interruption of these or other supplies, and the costs associated with developing alternative sources of supply or assembly, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manufacture and ship some of our systems, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Difficulties in renewing or redesigning old testing equipment could limit our ability to manufacture certain products, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. In many instances the testing equipment for our products and sub-assemblies is reaching the end of its useful life and, accordingly, such equipment may need to be renewed or redesigned. Duplicating such testing equipment is often extremely difficult, in particular, but not limited to, equipment relating to product lines acquired as a result of mergers and acquisitions or where there may not have been adequate documentation. Difficulty in renewing or maintaining such systems may limit our (or our sub-contractors’) ability to manufacture assemblies that pass the required testing procedures, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 15 Some of the components to build our older products are no longer readily available, which may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Some of the key components we purchase for building our older products have ceased to be manufactured and are becoming increasingly difficult to purchase. Where a supplier can be found, the price of such components may be disproportionately high and the components are frequently unavailable in sufficient quantity. Furthermore, such components are often sold by dealers and, as a result, will often lack the manufacturer’s warranty. These difficulties may affect the overall cost of production and, in severe cases, may cause production stoppages, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar or other currencies and the shekel or other currencies may negatively affect our results of operations. A majority of our revenues are in U.S. dollars, while a significant portion of our expenses, principally salaries and the related personnel expenses for Israeli employees and consultants, local vendors and subcontractors, are in shekels. The remainder of our revenues are in currencies other than shekels and U.S. dollars. As a result, we are exposed to the risk that the U.S. dollar will continue to devalue in relation to the shekel or that the rate of inflation in Israel will exceed the rate of devaluation of the shekels in relation to the dollar or other currencies or that the timing of this devaluation lags behind inflation in Israel. Such currency fluctuations would have the effect of increasing the dollar cost of our operations and would therefore have a material adverse effect on our dollar-measured results of operations. In 2007, the devaluation of the dollar against the shekel was approximately 8.6%, which was compounded by inflation at the rate of approximately 3.4%. In 2006, the devaluation of the dollar against the shekel was approximately 8.2%, whereas there was deflation at the rate of approximately 0.1%. This had the effect of increasing the dollar cost of our operations in Israel. Alternatively, because most of our international revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars, a strengthening of the dollar versus other currencies could make our products less competitive in foreign markets and collection of receivables more difficult. We cannot predict any future trends in the rate of inflation in Israel or the rate of devaluation or appreciation of the shekel or other currencies against the U.S. dollar. We do not currently engage in any currency hedging activities and thus may not be adequately protected from adverse effects due to the impact of inflation in Israel. For additional information relating to the impact of exchange rate fluctuations, see “Impact of Inflation and Currency Fluctuations” in Item 4 B below. We depend on international sales, and many of our customers’ operations are also located outside the U.S. Accordingly, we are exposed to risks associated with the business environment in those countries, and our business could be materially adversely affected as a result of exposure to these risks. Many of our customers’ operations are located outside the U.S. Our net sales are derived primarily from international sales through our international sales subsidiaries and exports to foreign distributors and resellers. In 2007, of our total net sales, approximately 48% were to North America and Latin America; approximately 26% were to Europe, the Middle East and Africa (or EMEA); approximately 13% were to the China/Asia Pacific region; and approximately 13% were to Japan. Less than 1% of our net sales were to Israel. We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for the majority of our revenues in the foreseeable future. Our international operations and sales are subject to a number of risks, including: — Longer accounts receivable collection periods and greater difficulties in their collection; — The impact of recessions on economies worldwide; — The stability of credit markets; — Reduced protection for intellectual property in certain jurisdictions; — Political and economic instability; — Regulatory limitations imposed by foreign governments; — Impact of military or civil conflicts, epidemics and other occurrences likely to adversely affect local economies; — Other political risks; — Disruption or delays in shipments caused by customs brokers or government agencies; — Imposition by governments of controls that would prevent or restrict the transfer of funds; — Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs, customs, duties, tax laws and other trade barriers; 16 — Difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; — Preference for locally produced products; and — Potentially adverse tax consequences resulting from changes in tax laws. We are also subject to the risks of fluctuating foreign exchange rates, which could materially adversely affect the sales price of our products in foreign markets as well as the costs and expenses of our international subsidiaries. If we fail to overcome the challenges we encounter in our international sales operations, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition to the general risks listed above, our operations in Israel are subject to certain country-specific risks described below under “Risks Relating to our Location in Israel”. If we fail to manage growth effectively, our business could be disrupted which could harm our operating results. We have experienced and may continue to experience growth in our business. We have made and expect to continue to make significant investments to enable our future growth through, among other things, new product innovation and clinical trials for new applications and products. We must also be prepared to expand our work force and to train, motivate and manage additional employees as the need for additional personnel arises. Our personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our future operations. Any failure to manage future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to implement our enterprise integration project successfully or the costs of implementing this project exceeds our estimates, our business could be harmed. To manage our current operations and the potential growth of our operations and increase in the number of our personnel, we need to invest the necessary capital to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures and to make our financial reporting process more efficient. We are currently implementing a global enterprise resource planning (ERP) software system for our finance and inventory management systems. We may encounter delays or difficulties in converting to the new system, including loss of data and decreases in productivity as our personnel become familiar with new systems. We have implemented the finance module and are currently implementing the logistics and manufacturing modules for all of our operations globally and expect to complete this phase in 2009. Next, we intend to implement the service, human resources and engineering modules and expect to complete this last phase in 2010. Because of the sequential implementation, our systems will likely be experiencing a transition at least through the end of 2010. If we fail to implement the project successfully, or should we experience material delays in implementation, our business could be adversely affected. Estimating the expenditures related to an enterprise integration project is very complex and subject to variables that can significantly increase expected costs. Should the actual costs of the project exceed our estimates, our liquidity and capital position could be adversely affected. Any acquisitions that we make could harm or disrupt our business without bringing the anticipated synergies. We have in the past made acquisitions of other businesses, technologies and/or assets, and we continue to evaluate potential strategic acquisitions. In the event of any future acquisitions, we could: issue shares or other securities that would dilute our current shareholders’ percentage ownership; pay cash; incur debt; assume liabilities; or incur expenses related to in-process research and development, and such acquisitions could lead to the impairment or amortization of intangible assets. These purchases could also involve numerous risks, including: — Problems combining the acquired operations, technologies (including information technology systems) or products with our own; — Unanticipated costs or liabilities; — Adverse effects on existing business relationships with distributors, suppliers and customers; — Entering markets in which we may have no or limited prior experience; — Diversion of management’s attention from our core businesses; and — Potential loss of key employees, particularly those of the purchased organizations. 17 Any such acquisitions in the future could strain our managerial, operational and financial resources, as well as our financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. In order to integrate acquired businesses, we must continue to improve operating and financial systems and controls. If we fail to successfully implement these systems and controls in a timely and cost-effective manner, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We depend on skilled personnel to operate our business effectively in a rapidly changing market, and if we are unable to retain existing or hire additional skilled personnel, our ability to develop and sell our products could be harmed and our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our key senior management, sales, technical and scientific personnel, any of whom could be difficult to replace. Competition for qualified employees is intense, and our business could be materially adversely affected by the loss of the services of any of our existing key personnel, whether through resignation, death or injury. We cannot assure that we will continue to be successful in hiring and retaining properly trained and experienced personnel. Our inability to attract, retain, motivate and train qualified new personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The long initial sales cycles for our products may cause us to incur significant expenses without offsetting revenues, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Customers typically expend significant effort in evaluating, testing and qualifying our products before making a decision to purchase them, resulting in a lengthy initial sales cycle. While our customers are evaluating our products, we may incur substantial sales and marketing and research and development expenses to customize our products to customer needs. We may also expend significant management efforts, increase manufacturing capacity and order long-lead-time components or materials. Even after this evaluation process, a potential customer may not purchase our products. As a result, these long initial sales cycles may cause us to incur significant expenses without ever receiving revenue to offset those expenses and, in aggregate, may materially adversely affects our results of operations. Some of our products are complex in design and could contain defects that are not detected until deployed by our customers and could lead to product liability claims, which could materially adversely affect on our business and results of operation Laser and pulsed light systems are inherently complex in design and require ongoing scheduled maintenance. Despite testing, the technical complexity of our products, changes in our or our suppliers’ manufacturing processes, the inadvertent use of defective materials by us or our suppliers and other factors could decrease product reliability. If we are unable to prevent or fix defects or other problems, or fail to do so on a timely basis, we could experience, among other things: — Delays in the recognition of revenues or loss of revenues, particularly in the case of new products; — Legal actions by customers, patients and other third parties, which could result in substantial judgments or settlement costs to us; — Loss of customers and market share; — Failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance; — Increased costs of product returns and warranty expenses; — Damage to our reputation; and — Diversion of development, engineering and management resources. In addition, some of our products are combined with products from other vendors, which may contain defects. As a result, should problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. There are also risks of physical injury to the patient when treated with one of our products, even if the product is not defective. The coverage limits of our product liability insurance policies may not be adequate to cover future claims. A successful claim brought against us in excess of, or outside of, our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may be required to implement a costly product recall, which could materially adversely affect our business and results of operation. In the event that products that we manufacture or sell prove to be defective, we may voluntarily recall them or implement a field correction, or the FDA or other regulatory authority could require us to implement a recall or a field correction, or a manufacturer or distributor of one of the products that we distribute or manufacture could require us to implement a recall or field correction. 18 In 2006, Boston Scientific Corp. required us to implement a recall of fibers used in the delivery of laser light for one of our surgical laser systems that Boston Scientific Corp. distributes for us. This recall resulted in the reversal of approximately $1.7 million of net sales. Though it is not possible to quantify the economic impact of any future recall or a field correction, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The use of toxic and other hazardous material in some of our production processes could result in claims against us that could materially adversely affect our business and results of operation. We use laboratory and manufacturing materials that could be considered hazardous, and we could be liable for any damage or liability resulting from accidental environmental contamination or injury. Some of the gases used in our excimer lasers may be highly toxic. The risk of accidental environmental contamination or injury from such materials cannot be entirely eliminated. In the event of an accident involving such materials, we could be liable for any damage, and such liability could exceed the amount of our liability insurance coverage and the resources of our business, and have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We typically assume warranty obligations in connection with the sales of our products, which could cause a significant drain on our resources and materially adversely affect our results of operations if our products perform poorly. We have a direct field service organization that provides service for our products. We generally provide a 12-month warranty on our laser systems; however, in some instances, we provide a more extended warranty on systems sold to end-users. After the warranty period, maintenance and support is provided on a service contract basis or on an individual call basis. We also provide a limited warranty for refurbished products and used medical lasers. If our products perform poorly, warranty claims may become significant in the future, which could cause a significant drain on our resources and materially adversely affect our results of operation. If our facilities were to experience catastrophic loss, our business and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Our facilities could be subject to a catastrophic loss such as fire, flood or earthquake. Some of our research and development activities, manufacturing and other critical business operations are located near major earthquake faults in California, an area with a history of seismic events. Any such loss at any of our facilities could disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in large expenses to repair or replace facilities. Any such loss could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Man-made problems such as computer viruses or terrorism may disrupt our operations and materially adversely affect our results of operations. Our servers and equipment are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with computer systems. Any such event could have a material adverse affect on our business. In addition, the continued worldwide threat of terrorism and heightened security, in response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause further disruptions and create further uncertainties or otherwise materially harm our business. To the extent that such disruptions or uncertainties result in delays or cancellations of customer orders or the manufacture or shipment of our products, our business, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year. Our sales and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year in the future. Our operating results are affected by a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Factors contributing to these fluctuations include, but are not limited to, the following: — General economic uncertainties and political concerns; — The cost and timing of the introduction and market acceptance of new products, product enhancements and new applications; — Changes in demand for our existing line of products; — The cost and availability of components and subassemblies, including the ability of our sole or limited source suppliers to deliver components at the times and prices that we have planned; — Our ability to maintain sales volumes at a level sufficient to cover fixed manufacturing and operating costs; 19 — Fluctuations in our product mix between aesthetic, ophthalmic, surgical and dental products and foreign and domestic sales; — The effect of regulatory approvals and changes in domestic and foreign regulatory requirements; — Introduction of new products, product enhancements and new applications by our competitors, entry of new competitors into our markets, pricing pressures and other competitive factors; — Our long and highly variable sales cycle; — Changes in the prices at which we can sell our products; — The size and timing of customers’ orders and changes in customers’ or potential customers’ budgets as a result of, among other things, reimbursement policies of government programs and private insurers for treatments that use our products; — Increased product innovation costs; — Foreign currency fluctuations; — One-time charges, goodwill write downs and write-offs due to inventory obsolescence; and — Changes in accounting rules. In addition to these factors, our quarterly results have been, and are expected to continue to be, affected by seasonal factors. Our expense levels are based, in part, on expected future sales. If sales levels in a particular quarter do not meet expectations, we may be unable to adjust operating expenses quickly enough to compensate for the shortfall of sales, and our results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, we have historically made a significant portion of each quarter’s product shipments near the end of the quarter. If that pattern continues, any delays in shipment of products in a particular period could have a material adverse effect on results of operations for such quarter. Due to these and other factors, we believe that quarter to quarter and year to year comparisons of our past operating results may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our results for any quarter or year as an indication of our future performance. Our operating results in future quarters and years may be below expectations, which would likely cause a decline in the value of our shares. Risks Relating Primarily to Our Location in Israel Regional instability in Israel may adversely affect our operations and may limit our ability to produce and sell our products. We are incorporated in Israel and our principal executive offices, one of our two principal manufacturing facilities and a substantial portion of our research and development facilities are located in Israel. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel could directly affect our operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors and a state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Despite past progress towards peace between Israel and its Arab neighbors, the future of these peace efforts is uncertain. Although Israel has entered into various agreements with Egypt, Jordan and the Palestinian Authority, there has been an increase in unrest and terrorist activity, which restarted in September 2000 and has continued with varying levels of severity into 2008. The election in January 2006 of representatives of the militant Hamas movement to a majority of seats in the Palestinian Legislative Council and that movement’s violent takeover of the Gaza Strip in June 2007 appear to have resulted in an escalation in violence among Israel, the Palestinian Authority and other groups. During the Second Lebanon War of July and August 2006, between Israel and Hezbollah, a militant Islamic movement in Lebanon, rockets were fired from Lebanon up to 50 miles into Israel causing casualties and major disruption of economic activities in the north of Israel. Our Yokneam facility was within the range of the rocket attacks, and operations in such facility were significantly curtailed for a period of several weeks. Furthermore, several countries, principally in the Middle East, still restrict doing business with Israel and Israeli companies, and additional countries may impose restrictions on doing business with Israel and Israeli companies if hostilities in Israel continue or increase. These restrictions may limit materially our ability to sell our products to companies in these countries. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel, could adversely affect our operations, manufacturing and product development and materially adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, any hostilities involving Israel may have a material adverse effect on our Yokneam facility, in which event a significant portion of our inventory and production capacity may be damaged, and our ability to deliver products to customers may be materially adversely affected. 20 Our business insurance does not cover losses that may occur as a result of events associated with the security situation in the Middle East. Although the Israeli government currently covers the reinstatement value of direct damages that are caused by terrorist attacks or acts of war, we cannot assure you that this government coverage will be maintained or that such coverage will be adequate or proportional to the actual direct and indirect damage. Any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our operations could be disrupted as a result of the obligation of personnel in Israel to perform military service. Generally, all male adult citizens and permanent residents of Israel under the age of 45 (or older in specific instances) are, unless exempt, obligated to perform military reserve duty annually, and are subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. Currently, many of our employees are obligated to perform annual reserve duty. In the event of severe unrest or other conflict, individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. In response to increased tension and hostilities, there have been occasional call-ups of military reservists, as was the case most recently in connection with the Second Lebanon War of 2006, and it is possible that there will be additional call-ups in the future. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence of a significant number of our employees related to military service or the absence for extended periods of one or more of our executive officers or other key employees for military service. Such disruption could materially adversely affect our business and operating results. Our operations may be materially adversely affected by negative economic conditions or labor unrest in Israel. There have been several general strikes and work stoppages in Israel, the most recent in 2006, affecting banks, airports and ports. These strikes had an adverse effect on the Israeli economy and on business, including our ability to deliver products to our customers and to receive materials from our suppliers in a timely manner. From time to time, the Israeli trade unions threaten strikes or work stoppages, which, if carried out, may have an adverse effect on the Israeli economy and our business and, if for a sustained period, could materially adversely affect our results of operations. If the tax benefits under the Israeli approved enterprise program are eliminated or materially reduced, then our costs and taxes are likely to increase and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In the past, the government of Israel has considered reducing or eliminating the tax benefits available to approved enterprises such as ours and the criteria for new investments qualified to receive such benefits have been revised. The Investment Law also provides an expiration date for the grant of new benefits. The expiration date has been extended several times in the past. The expiration date currently in effect is December 31, 2008, and no new benefits will be granted after that date unless the expiration date is extended again. Such expiration dates do not affect benefits granted prior to December 31, 2008. Tax benefits of this nature may not be available after December 31, 2008, and existing benefits may not be continued in the future at their current levels or at all. If these tax benefits are reduced or eliminated, the amount of taxes that we pay would likely increase, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. See “Israeli Tax Considerations and Government Programs – Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments” in Item 4.B and “Approved Enterprise” in Item 5.A below. The government grants we have received for research and development expenditures restrict our ability to manufacture products and transfer know-how outside of Israel and require us to satisfy specified conditions. If we fail to comply with such restrictions or these conditions, we may be required to refund grants previously received together with interest and penalties, and may be subject to criminal charges. We have in the past received, and may receive in the future, grants from the Government of Israel through the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor for the financing of a portion of our research and development expenditures in Israel. However, we have not received or accrued any such grants since at least 2001, and we cannot assure you that we will receive any such grants in the future. The terms of the Chief Scientist grants restrict us from manufacturing products developed using these grants outside of Israel without special approvals. In addition, decreases of the percentage of manufacturing performed in Israel from that originally declared in the application to the Office of the Chief Scientist, may require us to notify or to obtain a prior approval. Even if we receive approval to manufacture our products outside of Israel, we may be required to pay an increased total amount of royalties, which may be up to 300% of the grant amount plus interest, depending on the manufacturing volume that is performed outside of Israel. In addition, know-how developed under an approved research and development program may not be transferred to any third parties, except in certain circumstances and subject to prior approval. These restrictions may impair our ability to outsource manufacturing or our ability to enter into agreements with respect to those products or know-how, without the appropriate approval. We cannot assure that any such approval will be obtained on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. In addition, if we fail to comply with any of the conditions imposed by the Office of the Chief Scientist, including the payment of royalties with respect to grants received, we may be required to refund any grants previously received, together with interest and penalties and, in certain cases, may be subject to criminal charges. For further details, see “Research and Development” in Item 4.B below. 21 It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our officers and directors in Israel based on U.S. securities laws claims or to serve process on our officers and directors. We are incorporated in Israel. The majority of our executive officers and directors are not residents of the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult for a shareholder, or any other person or entity, to enforce a U.S. court judgment based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws in a U.S. or Israeli court against us or any of these persons or to effect service of process upon these persons in the United States. In addition, it may be difficult to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws because Israel is not the most appropriate forum to which such a claim should be brought. Even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. Provisions of the Israeli law could delay, prevent or make difficult a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. The Companies Law generally provides that a merger be approved by the board of directors and by the shareholders by the vote of a majority of the shares of each class present and voting on the proposed merger. The Companies Law has specific provisions for determining the majority of the shareholder vote. Upon the request of any creditor of a constituent in the proposed merger, a court may delay or prevent the merger if it concludes that there is a reasonable concern that, as a result of the merger, the surviving company will be unable to satisfy its obligations to creditors. In general, a merger may not be completed until the passage of certain statutory time periods. In certain circumstances, an acquisition of shares in a public company must be made by means of a tender offer that complies with certain requirements of the Companies Law that differ from those that apply to U.S. corporations. Israeli tax law treats some acquisitions, such as stock-for-stock exchanges between an Israeli company and a foreign company, less favorably than U.S. tax laws. These provisions of Israeli corporate and tax law may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making more difficult an acquisition of or merger with us, which could depress our share price. Under current Israeli law, we may not be able to enforce covenants not to compete, and therefore, we may be unable to prevent competitors from benefiting from the expertise of some of our former employees. In general, we have entered into non-competition agreements with our employees in the United States and Israel. These agreements prohibit our employees, if they cease working for us, from competing directly with us or working for our competitors for a limited period. Under current law, we may be unable to enforce these agreements, and it may be difficult for us to restrict our competitors from gaining the expertise our former employees gained while working for us. For example, Israeli courts have required employers seeking to enforce non-compete undertakings of a former employee to demonstrate that the competitive activities of the former employee will harm one of a limited number of material interests of the employer, which have been recognized by the courts, such as the secrecy of a company’s confidential commercial information or its intellectual property. If we cannot demonstrate that harm would be caused to our material interests, we may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of our former employees. We are a foreign private issuer and you will receive less information about us than you would from a domestic U.S. corporation. As a “foreign private issuer”, we are exempt from rules under the Exchange Act that impose certain disclosure and procedural requirements in connection with proxy solicitations under Section 14 of the Exchange Act. Our directors, executive officers and principal shareholders also are exempt from the reporting and “short-swing” profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules thereunder with respect to their purchases and sales of our shares. In addition, we are not required to file periodic reports and financial statements with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as U.S. companies whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act. As a result, you may not be able to obtain the same information relating to us as you would for a domestic U.S. corporation. 22 Risks Relating to Our Shares Shareholders, other than the investors in our December 2006 recapitalization, may experience further substantial dilution in the event that we incur losses, indemnities, liabilities and expenses in excess of insurance in connection with pending litigation. Post-closing adjustments to the number of shares issued to the investors in our 2006 recapitalization and as a result of the exercise of warrants on June 4, 2007, could result in the issuance for no additional consideration of up to an additional 419,674,797 ordinary shares. This would result in an effective price per share to those investors of $0.2681 and in the investors then owning (assuming exercise of all warrants issued to them, but without giving effect to other outstanding options and warrants and any other shares and securities issued or issuable after the date hereof) approximately 94% of our then outstanding share capital. The amount of purchased shares, including shares issuable under the warrants, will be adjusted for all losses, indemnities, liabilities and expenses exceeding, or not otherwise covered by, our insurance coverage, in connection with the recently concluded investigation by the SEC, the previously disclosed class action lawsuits and the still pending SEC proceeding against our former chief financial officer, and any other action, proceeding or investigation concerning securities and corporate governance matters and relating, in whole or in part, to matters occurring prior to the closing of the 2006 recapitalization. Adjustment for this purpose will be made by the issuance to the investors for no additional consideration of additional ordinary shares, as well as an adjustment to the exercise price under the closing warrants issued to the investors. This adjustment mechanism will remain operative until the later of December 2011 or five years after the matter was first submitted to court. The proposed settlement of our principal class action litigation as well as certain currently known expenses and indemnities will result in the first implementation of this adjustment mechanism by the issuance of approximately 17 million shares. See “2006 Recapitalization Plan –Shares Adjustments Related to Litigation Outcome” in Item 4.A below. Since our shares are no longer listed on NASDAQ, it is more difficult for investors to trade in our shares. Our shares were delisted from the NASDAQ National Market in February 2004. In addition, the SEC revoked their registration under Section 12 of the Exchange Act in April 2006. As a result of the deregistration, our shares could not be quoted or publicly traded in the United States until we re-registered our shares with the SEC, which we have since done. We do not currently plan to apply for listing on NASDAQ or any other securities exchange. We cannot assure you that if we do apply for listing our shares will be approved for quotation or trading on NASDAQ or on any other securities exchange. Prior to their deregistration by the SEC, our shares were quoted in the over-the-counter market on the Pink Sheets Electronic Quotation Service. Compared to NASDAQ, it was more difficult to sell our securities on the Pink Sheets. Also, since we were no longer traded on NASDAQ and the average trading price of our shares was below $5.00 per share when last traded, trading in our shares is subject to certain other rules of the Exchange Act. Such rules require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with certain trades involving a stock defined as a “penny stock.” “Penny stock” is defined as any non-Nasdaq equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. These rules require the delivery of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated with that market before entering into penny stock transactions. The rules also impose various sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell penny stocks to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. For these types of transactions, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and must receive the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to the sale. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by such requirements could discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in the shares. This could severely limit the market liquidity of the shares and the ability to sell our ordinary shares in the secondary market. Our stock price has been and may in the future continue to be volatile, and an investment in our shares could suffer a decline in value. The trading price of our ordinary shares was subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, some of which were beyond our control, including quarterly variations in our operating results, announcements by us or our competitors of new products or of significant clinical achievements, changes in market valuations of other similar companies in our industry and general market conditions. If public trading in our ordinary shares resumes, they could again be subject to wide fluctuations in response to similar factors as in the past and they may also experience an imbalance between supply and demand resulting from low trading volumes. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme volatility in the last few years that has often been unrelated to the performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations could have a significant impact on the market price of our ordinary shares regardless of our performance. 23 We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company and, as a result, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences. Generally, if (taking into account certain look-through rules with respect to the income and assets of our subsidiaries) for any taxable year 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or at least 50% of our assets are held for the production of, or produce, passive income, we would be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to our U.S. shareholders, including having gains realized on the sale of our shares be treated as ordinary income, as opposed to capital gain, and having potentially punitive interest charges apply to such sale proceeds. A decline in the value of our ordinary shares may result in our becoming a PFIC. U.S. shareholders should consult with their own U.S. tax advisors with respect to the U.S. tax consequences of investing in our ordinary shares. Based upon our calculations, we believe that we were not a PFIC in 2007. However, PFIC status is determined as of the end of the taxable year and depends on a number of factors, including the value of a corporation’s assets and the amount and type of its gross income. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we will not become a PFIC for fiscal year 2008 or in any future year. 