ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In this report we make, and from time-to-time we otherwise make, written and oral statements regarding our business and prospects, such as projections of future performance, statements of management’s plans and objectives, forecasts of market trends, and other matters that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Statements containing the words or phrases “will likely result,” “are expected to,” “will 14 continue,” “is anticipated,” “estimates,” “projects,” “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “target,” “goal,” “plans,” “objective,” “should” or similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which may appear in documents, reports, filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, news releases, written or oral presentations made by officers or other representatives made by us to analysts, stockholders, investors, news organizations and others, and discussions with management and other of our representatives. For such statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our future results, including results related to forward-looking statements, involve a number of risks and uncertainties. No assurance can be given that the results reflected in any forward-looking statements will be achieved. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made. Our forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions that are sometimes based upon estimates, data, communications and other information from suppliers, government agencies and other sources that may be subject to revision. Except as required by law, we do not undertake any obligation to update or keep current either (i) any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances arising after the date of such statement, or (ii) the important factors that could cause our future results to differ materially from historical results or trends, results anticipated or planned by us, or which are reflected from time to time in any forward-looking statement. In addition to other matters identified or described by us from time to time in filings with the SEC, there are several important factors that could cause our future results to differ materially from historical results or trends, results anticipated or planned by us, or results that are reflected from time to time in any forward-looking statement. Some of these important factors, but not necessarily all important factors, include the following: We have a history of significant operating losses and anticipate continued operating losses for at least the near term. For the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, we have incurred net losses of $234,598,580 and $14,605,762, respectively, and our operations have used $11,662,149 and $7,709,812 of cash, respectively. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of $327,556,413. We expect to continue to experience negative cash flows from operations until such time as we are able to substantially increase revenues and control expenses to levels that will allow us to operate on a positive cash flow basis. While management will endeavor to generate positive cash flows from our placement of electronic gaming machines in Asia pursuant to the Participation Agreement, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in generating positive cash flows from operations. The transactions under the Participation Agreement with Elixir Group represent a material change in our business model, and that business model has not been proven by us. On September 10, 2007, we closed on the transactions pursuant to the Participation Agreement with Elixir Group. Our decision to pursue the transactions under the Participation Agreement, and specifically our decision to issue the significant equity to Elixir Group based upon the resulting placement of electronic gaming machines, was based in large part on certain pro forma financial projections and underlying forecasts and assumptions concerning future events and circumstances, including, but not limited to, Elixir Group’s ability to source and identify venue owners in the general Asia market with which we might place electronic gaming machines and the commercial success of those machines, which our management believed to be significant to our future operations under the Participation Agreement. Some assumptions will invariably not materialize and some unanticipated events and circumstances occurring subsequently may affect other assumptions. Therefore, the actual results achieved may vary from the pro forma projections considered by our management, and the variations may be material. No assurance can be given that our future results of operations under the Participation Agreement will meet with consumer acceptance or market success. Our revenues from our gaming machine participation operations are difficult to predict and may vary from our projections because the business model is new and the venues are not operated by us. In connection with our June 2007 Participation Agreement with Elixir Group, our primary focus now is on 15 the ownership and leasing of gaming machines on a revenue sharing basis across several countries in Asia. In association with Elixir Group, we focus on targeting venue owners in underserved gaming markets who have little or no gaming operations or experience. Since we participate on a revenue sharing basis with these venue owners, our revenue generated from the revenue sharing arrangements will be dependent to a significant degree on the efforts and capabilities of the venue owners. Our revenues and results of operations from our gaming machine participation may be difficult to predict and may vary depending on the ability of the venue owners to manage the gaming operations of their venues. Accordingly, there can be no guarantee that the venue owners will be able to manage the gaming operations successfully or that the gaming venues operated by them will perform at levels consistent with our financial projections and underlying forecasts and assumptions. Further we have very limited past business relationships with the venue operators and assume that the venue operators are reputable. In the event that any of the venue operators are not reputable this would expose us to the risk of being unable to collect the revenue to which we are entitled under the revenue share arrangement and protect our gaming machine assets (all of which are not insured). The risk of collecting the revenue rightfully due under the revenue share arrangement and protecting our gaming machine assets is heightened where delays are experienced by Elixir Group in installing a casino management system once a venue is in operation which has happened in the past. We will require additional funding in the future to continue to operate our business. After giving effect to our receipt of approximately $90.0 million in net proceeds from the private placements of our common shares and the exercise of warrants and the payment of $22.0 million in trade payable and notes payable during the fourth quarter of 2007, as of December 31, 2007 we had working capital of approximately $35.6 million. We believe we have sufficient cash on hand to fulfill all current obligations as they become due. However, we believe in order to fund our projected agreements for the placement of electronic gaming machines pursuant to the Participation Agreement we will need at least $40.0 million of additional capital over the next 12 months. We will endeavor to raise additional funds through various financing sources, including the sale of our equity and debt securities and the procurement of commercial debt financing, whether through Elixir Group or other parties with a bias toward debt financing over equity raisings. However, there can be no guarantees that such funds will be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If such financing is not available on satisfactory terms, we may be unable to expand or continue our business as desired and operating results may be adversely affected. Any debt financing will increase expenses and must be repaid regardless of operating results and may involve restrictions limiting our operating flexibility. If we issue equity securities to raise additional funds, the following results may occur: · the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders will be reduced; · our stockholders may experience additional dilution in net book value per share; or · the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock. Our shareholders will undergo significant equity dilution pursuant to the transactions completed by the Participation Agreement. According to the terms of the Participation Agreement, Elixir Group has the right to “earn-in” an equity interest in our company based on the achievement of various performance milestones in terms of the cumulative number of the electronic gaming machines that are contracted to be placed and actually placed by us with venue owners sourced and identified by Elixir Group. At the initial closing of the transaction under the Participation Agreement, we issued to Elixir Group 25,000,000 common shares and warrants, with an exercise price of $2.65 per share, to purchase up to 88,000,000 additional shares of our common stock. Elixir Group is entitled to earn a total of 55,000,000 shares of our common stock (inclusive of the 25,000,000 shares issued at the initial closing and the 15,000,000 shares issued on September 13, 2007), and the warrants will vest and become exercisable subject to achieving certain performance milestones with respect to the cumulative number of gaming machines under contract and gaming machines in operation. Our issuance of equity to Elixir Group pursuant to the Participation Agreement will result in significant equity dilution to our shareholders. 16 In December 2007, Elixir Group sold 10 million of the 88 million warrants issued under the Participation Agreement to certain accredited investors who immediately exercised the 10 million warrants. Pursuant to the Exchange Agreement with Elixir Group dated October 21, 2007, we have agreed to issue shares of our common stock in exchange for Elixir Group’s cancellation of the remaining 78 million warrants issued under the Participation Agreement, at an exchange ratio of one common share for every 2.5 outstanding warrants. As of March 26, 2008, we have issued 4.8 million shares of our common stock in exchange for Elixir Group’s cancellation of 12 million of its outstanding vested warrants. We have also agreed to issue up to 26.4 million shares of our common stock in exchange for Elixir Group’s cancellation of 66 million of its outstanding unvested warrants, subject to the vesting of such warrants. The accounting treatment for the transactions under the Participation Agreement will negatively impact our reportable net results over the life of the gaming machine lease agreements that relate to the equity earned by Elixir Group. Our issuance of common shares and warrants to Elixir Group under the Participation Agreement is accounted for under EITF No. 96-18, Accounting for Equity Instruments that are Issued to Other than Employees for Acquiring, or in Conjunction with Selling, Goods or Services, which addresses the accounting for, among other things, the issuance of equity in exchange for services rendered. As electronic gaming machines are placed with venue owners in satisfaction of the performance milestones set forth in the Participation Agreement, and Elixir Group earns equity thereby, we will record contract acquisition fees and additional paid-in-capital, in the dollar amounts of shares earned using the values of the shares earned based on market prices as of the dates of placement. Assuming Elixir Group achieves all the remaining performance milestones under the Participation Agreement, earns the remaining 15,000,000 common shares and the 66 million warrants become vested and immediately exchanged for 26.4 million common shares under the Exchange Agreement and assuming a $3.00 per share price we would realize approximately $124.2 million in non-cash charges to our statement of operations. Although this amount is a non-cash charge and would not negatively impact cash flows from operations or EBITDA, the charges will materially negatively impact our reportable net profits/(losses) from operations. Elixir Group holds a significant interest in our common stock, giving Elixir Group the power to control our management and all shareholder actions. As a result of the transactions consummated under the Participation Agreement, our company has undergone a change in control in which Elixir Group now holds a significant interest in our company. As of March 26, 2008, Elixir Group owns 45.8 million shares of our common stock, representing 39.9% of our issued and outstanding common shares, and has the right to earn another 15 million common shares under the Participation Agreement and another 26.4 million shares under the Exchange Agreement with Elixir Group dated October 21, 2007. Accordingly, Elixir Group effectively controls our management and all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the ability to control our board of directors and effect the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership will make it difficult for other shareholders to effect substantial changes in our company, and also will have the effect of delaying, preventing or expediting, as the case may be, a further change in control of our company. The interests of Elixir Group may conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. Elixir Group, as our principal shareholder, effectively controls all matters submitted for shareholder approval and has control over our management and affairs. We cannot assure you that the interests of Elixir Group will coincide with the interests of our other shareholders. Although our board of directors has created a conflicts committee, made up exclusively of directors independent of Elixir Group, with veto rights over certain transactions between us and Elixir Group, in circumstances involving a conflict of interest between Elixir Group, on the one hand, and our company or the other shareholders, on the other, we can give no assurance that Elixir Group would not exercise its power to control us in a manner that would benefit Elixir Group to the detriment of our other shareholders. 17 We rely on distributors exclusively in all our markets and our limited sales experience in foreign countries could cause us to lose sales. All sales of our products are achieved through distributor relationships, including our arrangements with Elixir Group and Suzo Happ Group. We believe the distributors that we have engaged are experienced and reputable; however, if we are unable to manage these relationships, our ability to generate revenue and profits in may be adversely affected. Our growth into markets outside the United States exposes us to risks inherent in international business operations. We intend to market our gaming machine participation business and sell our table game products outside the United States. We intend to focus our sales efforts in Asia, but our international expansion efforts may not be successful. Our international operations expose us to risks and challenges that we would otherwise not face if we conducted our business only in the United States, such as: · increased cost of enforcing our intellectual property rights; · heightened price sensitivity from customers in emerging markets; · our ability to establish local manufacturing, support and service functions, and to form channel relationships with resellers in non-U.S. markets; · localization of our electronic gaming machines and components, including translation into foreign languages and the associated expenses; · compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations; · foreign currency fluctuations; · laws favoring local competitors; · weaker legal protections of intellectual property rights and mechanisms for enforcing those rights; · market disruptions created by public health crises in regions outside the U.S., such as Avian flu, SARS and other diseases; · difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, including challenges presented by relationships with workers’ councils and labor unions; and · changing regional economic and political conditions. We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights. Our success in businesses other than gaming machine participation is impacted by maintaining the confidentiality and proprietary nature of our intellectual property rights. Our ability to compete may be damaged, and our revenues may be reduced if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights adequately. To protect these rights, we rely principally on a combination of: · contractual arrangements providing for non-disclosure and prohibitions on use; · patents and pending patent applications; · trade secret, copyright and trademark laws; and · certain built-in technical product features. Patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark laws provide limited protection. The protections provided by laws governing intellectual property rights do not prevent our competitors from developing, independently, products similar or superior to our products and technologies. In addition, effective protection of copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks, and other proprietary rights may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries. We may be unaware of certain non-publicly available patent applications, which, if issued as patents, could relate to our services and products as currently designed or as we may modify them in the future. Legal or regulatory proceedings to enforce our patents, trademarks or copyrights could be costly, time consuming, and could divert the attention of management and technical personnel. 18 It is possible that our products excluding our gaming machine participation business will be the subject of future patent litigation if the products are sold and installed in the United States and, if commenced, could subject us to continuing litigation costs and risks. To the extent that we introduce new products that incorporate the same or similar technology, it is likely that a competitor will bring one or more claims against us seeking damages, injunctive or other equitable relief, or both. We cannot predict the outcome of any present or future litigation that may occur. If our future products incorporate technologies that infringe the proprietary rights of third parties and we do not secure licenses from them, we could be liable for substantial damages that would cause a material reduction in revenues and impair our prospects for achieving growth and profitability. In furtherance of the development of our services or products, we may need to acquire licenses for intellectual property to avoid infringement of third party rights or claims of infringement. These licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Claims for infringement, if made, could damage our business prospects, our results of operations and financial condition, whether or not the claims have merit, by: · consuming substantial time and financial resources required to defend against them; · diverting the attention of management from growing our business and managing operations; · resulting in costly litigation; and · disrupting product sales and shipments. If any third party prevails in an action against us for infringement of its proprietary rights, we could be required to pay damages and either enter into costly licensing arrangements or redesign our products so as to exclude the infringing technology. As a result, we would incur substantial costs and delays in product development, sales and shipments, our revenues may decline substantially and we may not be able to achieve the growth required for us to achieve profitability. Our board of directors may issue blank check preferred stock, which may affect the voting rights of our holders and could deter or delay an attempt to obtain control of us. Our board of directors is authorized, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock in series and to fix and state the voting rights and powers, designation, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights of the shares of each such series and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof. Preferred stock may rank prior to our common stock with respect to dividends rights, liquidation preferences, or both, and may have full or limited voting rights. Accordingly, issuance of shares of preferred stock could adversely affect the voting power of holders of our common stock and could have the effect of deterring or delaying an attempt to obtain control of us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 