Item 1A. Risk Factors In this report we make, and from time-to-time we may also make, either written or oral statements regarding our business and prospects, such as projections of future performance, statements of management’s plans and objectives, forecasts of market trends, and other matters that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Statements containing the words or phrases “will likely result,” “are expected to,” “will continue,” “is anticipated,” “estimates,” “projects,” “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “target,” “goal,” “plans,” “objective,” “should” or similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which may appear in documents, reports, filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, news releases, written or oral presentations made by our officers or other representatives appointed by us to analysts, stockholders, investors, news organizations and others, and may also appear during any discussions between such persons and our management or any of our representatives. For such statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our future results, including results related to forward-looking statements, involve a number of risks and uncertainties. No assurance can be given that the results reflected in any forward-looking statements will be achieved. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made. Our forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions that are sometimes based upon estimates, data, communications and other information from suppliers, government agencies and other sources that may be subject to revision. Except as required by law, we do not undertake any obligation to update or keep current either: (i) any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances arising after the date of such statement; or (ii) the important factors that could cause our future results to differ materially from historical results or trends, results anticipated or planned by us, or which are reflected from time to time in any forward-looking statement. In addition to other matters identified or described by us from time to time in filings with the SEC, there are several important factors that could cause our future results to differ materially from historical results or trends, results anticipated or planned by us, or results that are reflected from time to time in any forward-looking statement. Some of these important factors, but not necessarily all important factors, include those set out below. We have a history of operating losses. We achieved substantial improvement in our financial performance and generated positive cash flows from operations and net income for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2012 due to initiatives to refocus our business operations and streamline our cost structure. However, for the year ended December 31, 2013, we incurred a net loss from continuing operations of approximately $5.2 million and may continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. We do not have a significant history in slot operations, which commenced in the second half of 2007, and in 2012 commenced a new line of operations involving the development and operation of our own regional casinos and gaming venues in the Indo-China region. Our limited operating history in the gaming business makes it difficult for potential investors to evaluate our business or prospective operations. Further, we remain subject to the risks inherent in any developing business, including those mentioned below. While we will endeavor to generate positive cash flows from operations and net income, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in doing so. 9 Due to the nature of our slot operations, the actions of our venue owners with which we partner could impact our financial performance. Our slot operations, which involve the ownership and leasing of EGMs on a revenue sharing basis in certain countries in Asia, are presently the primary contributor to earnings. These operations focus on targeting venue owners who have little or no gaming operations experience. Since we participate on a revenue sharing basis with these venue owners, our revenue generated from these agreements will be dependent to a significant degree on the efforts and capabilities of the venue owners. Our revenues and results from the slot operations may be impacted by the ability of the venue owners to manage the gaming operations of their venues. Accordingly, there can be no guarantee that the venue owners will be able to manage the gaming operations successfully or that the gaming venues operated by them will perform at levels consistent with our financial projections and underlying forecasts and assumptions. Further, we have limited past business relationships with certain of the venue owners and, despite background checks and other due diligence that we may perform, the venue owners may not be reputable. In the event that any of the venue owners are not reputable, this would expose us to the risk of being unable to collect the revenue to which we are entitled under the revenue share arrangements and protect our gaming machine assets. We have a dependence on NagaWorld. In Cambodia, our slot operations largely focus on operating a substantial portion of the gaming machine area in prime casino floor locations at NagaWorld, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Hong Kong listed NagaCorp Ltd. (HKSE: 3918). As of December 31, 2013, we had 670 EGMs under contract in NagaWorld, representing approximately 40% of our total EGMs placed for our slot business as of that date, and those machines are among our highest performing units on a net win per day basis. For the year ended December 31, 2013, our operations in NagaWorld accounted for approximately 53% of consolidated revenue and approximately 72% of revenue from slot operations. We believe we have a good relationship with NagaCorp, however, should material events occur that are detrimental to NagaWorld and its operations or cause the loss of this customer, it would have a significant negative impact on our financial performance. The current contract with NagaWorld will expire in March 2016. There can be no assurances that we will be able to renew the contract under similar conditions, if at all. Absent significant improvement in our existing operations and/or securing new successful projects, the loss of the NagaWorld contract would have a significant negative impact on our financial performance. We could require additional funding in the future to execute casino and gaming development plans. As of December 31, 2013, we had working capital of approximately $5.2 million. Since December 31, 2013, working capital has been positively affected by solid cash flow contributions from gaming operations, particularly the NagaWorld slot operations; net of capital expenditures incurred for gaming production equipment. We believe we have sufficient cash on hand to fulfill all current obligations as they become due and to fund equipment purchase plans and maintenance for both the gaming operations and gaming products businesses. Based on internal revenue projections, existing EGM placement rollout plans and our inventory of EGMs, we believe we have the needed capital to fund existing operations over the next 12 months. However, we may need to raise additional capital within the next 12 months if we were to: commit to a large development project, the concurrent development of multiple casino and gaming projects or a new project that requires large upfront payments; experience a shortfall in internal earnings projections; become required to procure additional EGMs for projects; or require capital for reasons not currently contemplated. We would endeavor to raise funds through various financing sources, including the sale of our equity and debt securities and the procurement of commercial debt financing. However, there can be no guarantees that such funds will be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If such financing is not available on satisfactory terms, we may be unable to expand or continue our business as desired and operating results may be adversely affected. Any debt financing will increase expenses and must be repaid regardless of operating results and may involve restrictions limiting our operating flexibility. If we issue equity securities to raise additional funds, the following results can occur: · the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders will be reduced; · our stockholders may experience additional dilution in net book value per share; and/or · the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock. Intended expansion of gaming operations represents material addition to our business model, which has not been proven by us. In May 2010, we announced plans to expand the gaming operations and become an owner and operator of regional casinos and gaming venues under the “Dreamworld” brand in certain emerging gaming markets in Indo-China. While we believe that we can leverage our existing market presence and relationships to execute our casino and gaming development plans, there is no guarantee we will be successful in securing new casino and gaming projects, funding those projects and/or executing plans to build and operate any of the casino and gaming projects. Since we do not have a prior history in the development and operation of regional casinos and gaming venues, it is difficult for potential investors to evaluate these prospective operations. Further, we remain subject to the risks inherent in any developing business, including those mentioned herein. Some of our assumptions will invariably not materialize and some unanticipated events and circumstances may affect other assumptions. Therefore, the actual results achieved may vary from the pro forma projections considered by management, and the variations may be material. No assurance can be given that the future results of our casino and gaming development operations will meet with consumer acceptance or market success. 10 Our slot operations and casino and gaming venue development operations are focused in markets outside the United States, which exposes us to risks inherent in international business operations. We intend to pursue slot operations and casino and gaming development projects in certain markets in Pan-Asia. We also focus our sales efforts for gaming products, primarily gaming chips and plaques, in Asia and Australia. However, these efforts may not be successful. Our international operations expose us to risks and challenges that we would otherwise not face if we conducted our business only in the United States, such as: · increased cost of enforcing our intellectual property rights; · heightened price sensitivity from customers in emerging markets; · our ability to establish local manufacturing, support and service functions; · localization of our EGMs and components, including translation into foreign languages and the associated expenses; · compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations; · foreign currency fluctuations; · laws favoring local competitors; · weaker legal protections of contract terms, enforcement on collection of receivables and intellectual property rights and mechanisms for enforcing those rights; · market disruptions created by public health crises in regions outside the United States, such as Avian flu, SARS and other diseases; · difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, including challenges presented by relationships with workers’ councils and labor unions; and · changing regional economic, political and regulatory conditions. Our gaming operations are presently concentrated in Cambodia and the Philippines, which means our results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely effected by economic or political developments in either country. Our business model contemplates the development of slot operations in Pan-Asia and casino development business in Indo-China, however at the present time our gaming operations are located solely in Cambodia and the Philippines. As a result, we experience significant exposure to the business concentration risks presented by the economies and regulatory environments of these two countries. The governments of Cambodia and the Philippines exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of their respective countries’ economy through regulations and, in some cases, state-ownership. Our ability to operate in Cambodia and the Philippines may be harmed by changes in the local laws and regulations, including those relating to gaming, taxation, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. In the Philippines, with the exception of major integrated resorts in the Manila area, almost all gaming operations are controlled by the Philippine Amusement and Gaming Corporation (“PAGCOR”), a government corporation that holds the exclusive right to operate slot rooms in the Philippines, which reports directly to the Office of the President of the Philippines. While we have no reason to believe at this time any of our gaming operations or partners are facing the risk of any adverse government action in Cambodia or the Philippines, the central or local governments of such jurisdictions may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure compliance with such regulations or interpretations or which may even restrict the licenses under which we and our partners operate. Likewise, any political turmoil, adverse weather condition, calamity or epidemic occurs in any of these two countries would have a significant negative impact on our business operations and financial performance. For the year ended December 31, 2013, our financial performance for our slot operations in NagaWorld was negatively impacted due to organized protests in Cambodia’s capital of Phnom Penh, which related to the country’s national elections held in July 2013 and general labor unrest. Revenue from our slot operations in NagaWorld declined to $13.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 compared to $14.1 million in the prior year. 11 We may be exposed to liabilities under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and any determination that we violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practice Act (“FCPA”), and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by U.S. persons and issuers as defined by the statute, for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have operations and agreements with third parties throughout Pan-Asia. Our activities in Asia create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by the employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors of our Company, even though they may not always be subject to our control. It is our policy to implement safeguards to discourage these practices by our employees. However, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and the employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors of our company may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights. Our success in business, in particular, in relation to our gaming chips and plaques products, is impacted by maintaining the confidentiality and proprietary nature of our intellectual property rights. Our ability to compete may be damaged, and our revenues may be reduced if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights adequately. To protect these rights, we rely principally on a combination of: · contractual arrangements providing for non-disclosure and prohibitions on use; · patents and pending patent applications; · trade secret, copyright and trademark laws; and · certain built-in technical product features. Patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark laws provide limited protection. The protections provided by laws governing intellectual property rights do not prevent competitors from developing, independently, products similar or superior to our products and technologies. In addition, effective protection of copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks, and other proprietary rights may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries. We may be unaware of certain non-publicly available patent applications, which, if issued as patents, could relate to our services and products as currently designed or as we may modify them in the future. Legal or regulatory proceedings to enforce our patents, trademarks or copyrights could be costly, time consuming, and could divert the attention of management and technical personnel. Melco International Development Ltd., through its subsidiary EGT Entertainment Holding, holds a significant interest in our common stock, giving Melco significant power over our management and all shareholder actions. As of December 31, 2013, EGT Entertainment Holding owned 11.5 million shares of our common stock, representing approximately 38.1% of the issued and outstanding common shares. Accordingly, given its equity ownership, EGT Entertainment Holding has significant control over all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the power to elect our board members and other significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership will make it difficult for other shareholders to effect substantial changes in our Company, and also will have the effect of delaying, preventing or expediting, as the case may be, a further change in control. Our board of directors may issue blank check preferred stock, which may affect the voting rights of our holders and could deter or delay an attempt to obtain control of us. The board of directors is authorized, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock in series and to fix and state the voting rights and powers, designation, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights of the shares of each such series and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof. Preferred stock may rank prior to our common stock with respect to dividends rights, liquidation preferences, or both, and may have full or limited voting rights. Accordingly, issuance of shares of preferred stock could adversely affect the voting power of holders of our common stock and could have the effect of deterring or delaying an attempt to obtain control of us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 12 