Item 1A. Risk Factors The nationwide recession of 2008 and 2009 and the weak economic recovery since then have adversely affected the industry. The Bank is exposed to general economic conditions and downturns in the U.S. housing market. Dramatic declines in the national housing market in recent years, with falling home prices and increasing 30 Table of Contents foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, had negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities, major commercial and investment banks, and regional and community financial institutions such as the Company. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors had reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit had led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The continuing economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on the Company and others in the financial services industry. A worsening of financial markets or economic conditions could also materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of the Company’s common stock. A continued downturn in the local economy or in local real estate values could hurt profits. Most of the Bank’s loans are secured by real estate or are made to businesses in Ocean and Monmouth Counties, New Jersey and the surrounding area. As a result of this concentration, a downturn in the local economy could cause significant increases in non-performing loans, which could hurt profits. Prior to 2007 there was a significant increase in real estate values in the Bank’s market area. Since that time, there has been a weakening in the local economy with rising unemployment coupled with declining real estate values and increases in non-performing mortgage loans, particularly residential loans. Based upon sales data for 2012 from the Ocean and Monmouth Counties Multiple Listing Service, residential home values in the Company’s primary market area have declined by approximately 21% from the peak of the market in 2006. A further decline in real estate values could cause additional residential and commercial mortgage loans to become inadequately collateralized, which could expose the Bank to a greater risk of loss. Superstorm Sandy, or future natural disasters or hurricanes, could aversely affect asset quality and earnings. The Bank’s primary market areas of Ocean and Monmouth Counties in New Jersey were significantly affected by superstorm Sandy, which struck the region on October 29 and 30, 2012. The storm caused significant damage throughout the market area, including widespread disruptions in power and transportation. Many properties and structures also incurred flood and wind damage, which ranges from minor to moderate in many areas to very severe in coastal areas, which may adversely affect the value of certain collateral securing loans, and, potentially, borrowers’ ability to repay their obligations. In addition, flood and property insurance may not be sufficient to fully cover exposure to losses, and borrowers may experience delays in receiving proceeds from insurance claims. Additionally, it is likely that delinquencies and loan restructurings will increase, particularly in the short-term, as borrowers undertake recovery and clean-up efforts, including the submission of insurance claims. Borrowers may also experience disruptions in their employment status or income if their employers were affected by the storm. These increases in delinquencies and restructurings would negatively affect cash flows and, if not timely cured, would increase non-performing assets and reduce net interest income. Loan restructurings may also increase for borrowers impacted by the storm. The Bank may also experience increased loan losses as total loan delinquencies and loan restructurings increase, and to the extent that the combination of insurance proceeds and collateral values are insufficient to cover loan balances on loans that may default. The Bank evaluated the impact of the storm relative to the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses at December 31, 2012 and recorded an additional provision for loan losses of $1.8 million for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2012 solely related to the impact of superstorm Sandy. The ultimate amount of loan losses relating to the storm remains uncertain and difficult to predict. As a result, the additional loan loss provision may prove to be inadequate to cover actual loan losses and if the Company is required to increase its allowance, current earnings may be reduced. Alternatively, losses may not materialize due to adequate insurance coverage or the financial resources of the borrower which may result in a reduction to the loan loss provision in some future period. 31 Table of Contents The Bank’s trade area includes counties in New Jersey with extensive coastal regions. These areas may be vulnerable to flooding or other damage from future storms or hurricanes. This damage may be as bad as, or worse than, that suffered during superstorm Sandy. Further storms like this could negatively impact the Company’s results of operations by disrupting operations, adversely impacting the business and operations of the Company’s borrowers, damaging collateral or reducing the value of real estate used as collateral. The Federal Emergency Management Agency has recently issued proposed newly drawn floodplain maps for New Jersey with substantial increases to many of the indicated base flood elevations. These maps must be reviewed and adopted by local municipalities to become effective, which may not be completed until late in 2014. The changes to flood insurance characteristics may reduce real estate values or impact borrowers’ ability to maintain adequate flood insurance coverage which may adversely impact loans issued by the Bank in affected areas. Increased emphasis on commercial lending, or the Bank’s offering of alternative credit products, may expose the Bank to increased lending risks. At December 31, 2012, $533.1 million, or 34.4%, of the Bank’s total loans consisted of commercial real estate, multi-family and land loans, and commercial business loans. This portfolio has grown in recent years and the Bank intends to continue to emphasize these types of lending. These types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one-to-four family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the borrowers. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one-to-four family residential mortgage loans. Also, many of the Bank’s commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose the Bank to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one-to-four family residential mortgage loan. In addition, even within its residential loan portfolio, the Bank offers several alternative credit products, including one-to-four family loans with interest-only payment requirements for the first five, seven or ten years of the mortgage loan term. As a result, borrowers will face substantial increases in loan payment amounts as these loans begin to amortize. These loans expose the Bank to greater risk than traditional, fully amortizing one-to-four family residential mortgage loans. The Dodd-Frank Act imposes new obligations on originators of residential mortgage loans, such as the Bank. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act requires originators to make a reasonable and good faith determination based on documented information that a borrower has a reasonable ability to repay a particular mortgage loan over the long term. If the originator cannot meet this standard, the loan may be unenforceable. The Dodd-Frank Act contains an exception from this ability-to-repay rule for “Qualified Mortgages”. A rule issued by the CFPB in January 2013, and effective January 10, 2014, sets forth specific underwriting criteria for a loan to qualify as a Qualified Mortgage. The criteria generally exclude loans that (1) are interest-only, (2) have excessive upfront points or fees, or (3) have negative amortization features, balloon payments, or terms in excess of 30 years. The underwriting criteria also impose a maximum debt to income ratio of 43%, based upon documented and verifiable information. If a loan meets these criteria and is not a “higher priced loan” as defined in Federal Reserve regulations, the CFPB rule establishes a safe harbor preventing a consumer from asserting the failure of the originator to establish the consumer’s ability to repay. However, a consumer may assert the lender’s failure to comply with the ability-to-repay rule for all residential mortgage loans other than Qualified Mortgages. Although the majority of residential mortgages historically originated by the Bank would be considered Qualified Mortgages, the Bank may continue to make residential mortgage loans that would not qualify. The Bank is still evaluating the impact of the recently issued Qualified Mortgage definition and related ability-to-repay rules, as well as other rules recently issued by the by the CFPB related to mortgage origination and servicing, to determine if such rules will have any long-term impact on its mortgage loan origination and servicing activities. As a result of such rules, the Bank might experience increased compliance costs, loan losses, litigation related expenses and delays in taking title to real estate collateral, if these loans do not perform and borrowers challenge whether the Bank satisfied the ability-to-repay rule upon originating the loan. 32 Table of Contents The Company’s allowance for loan losses may be inadequate, which could hurt the Company’s earnings. The Company’s allowance for loan losses may prove to be inadequate to cover actual loan losses and if the Company is required to increase its allowance, current earnings may be reduced. When borrowers default and do not repay the loans that the Bank makes to them, the Company may lose money. The Company’s experience shows that some borrowers either will not pay on time or will not pay at all, which will require the Company to cancel or “charge-off” the defaulted loan or loans. The Company provides for losses by reserving what it believes to be an adequate amount to absorb any probable incurred losses. A “charge-off” reduces the Company’s reserve for possible loan losses. If the Company’s reserves were insufficient, it would be required to record a larger reserve, which would reduce earnings for that period. Changes in interest rates or a prolonged period of low interest rates could adversely affect results of operations and financial condition. The Bank’s ability to make a profit largely depends on net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. The interest income earned on interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities are generally fixed for a contractual period of time. Interest-bearing liabilities generally have shorter contractual maturities than interest-earning assets. This imbalance can create significant earnings volatility, because market interest rates change over time. In a period of rising interest rates, the interest income earned on interest-earning assets may not increase as rapidly as the interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. In addition, changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and mortgage-backed securities. A reduction in interest rates causes increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed securities as borrowers refinance their debt to reduce their borrowing costs. This creates reinvestment risk, which is the risk that the Bank may not be able to reinvest the funds from faster prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates earned on the prepaid loans or securities. Conversely, an increase in interest rates generally reduces prepayments. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable-rate loans. Changes in interest rates also affect the current market value of the interest-earning securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. Unrealized net losses on securities available for sale are reported as a separate component of equity. To the extent interest rates increase and the value of the available for sale portfolio decreases, stockholders’ equity will be adversely affected. The Federal Reserve has indicated that it intends to keep interest rates at current low levels at least as long as the unemployment rate remains above 6.5%, inflation between one and two years ahead is projected to be no more than half percentage point above the 2% longer-run goal, and longer-term inflation expectations continue to be well-anchored. The Federal Reserve expects these thresholds to last through mid-2015. The continuation of the current low interest rate environment will likely continue to adversely affect the Company’s net interest margin and net interest income for 2013. Changes in the fair value of securities may reduce stockholders’ equity and net income. At December 31, 2012, the Company maintained a securities portfolio of $547.4 million all of which was classified as available for sale. The estimated fair value of the available for sale securities portfolio may increase or decrease depending on the credit quality of the underlying issuer, market liquidity, changes in interest rates and other factors. Stockholders’ equity is increased or decreased by the amount of the change in the unrealized gain or loss (difference between the estimated fair value and the amortized cost) of the available for sale securities portfolio, net of the related tax expense or benefit, under the category of accumulated other comprehensive income/loss. Therefore, a decline in the estimated fair value of this portfolio will result in a decline in reported stockholders’ equity, as well as book value per common share. The decrease will occur even though the securities are not sold. The Company conducts a periodic review and evaluation of the securities portfolio to determine if the decline in the fair value of any security below its cost basis is other-than-temporary. Factors which are considered in the analysis include, but are not limited to, the severity and duration of the decline in fair value of the security, the 33 Table of Contents financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, whether the decline appears to be related to issuer conditions or general market or industry conditions, the intent and ability to retain the security for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value and the likelihood of any near-term fair value recovery. If such decline is deemed to be other-than-temporary, the security is written down to a new cost basis and the resulting loss is charged to earnings as a component of non-interest income. At December 31, 2012, the securities available for sale portfolio included corporate debt securities issued by national and regional banks. The portfolio consisted of eleven $5.0 million issues spread among eight issuers. At December 31, 2012, the securities had a book value of $55.0 million and an estimated fair value of $43.5 million. The Company may be required to recognize an other-than-temporary impairment charge related to these securities if circumstances change. The Bank or Columbia may be required to repurchase mortgage loans for a breach of representations and warranties, which could harm the Company’s earnings. The Bank and Columbia each entered into loan sale agreements with investors in the normal course of business. The loan sale agreements generally required the repurchase of certain loans previously sold in the event of a violation of various representations and warranties customary to the mortgage banking industry. Repurchase demands accelerated industry-wide in recent years. Additionally, FNMA, FHLMC and investors carefully examine loan documentation with the goal of increasing the amount of repurchases by the loan originator. The repurchased mortgage loans could typically only be resold at a significant discount to the unpaid principal balance. The Company maintains a reserve for repurchased loans, however, if repurchase activity is significant, the reserve may need to be increased to cover actual losses which could harm future earnings. The Company and the Bank operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. The Company is subject to examination and regulation by the FRB. The Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC, its primary federal regulator, and by the FDIC, as insurer of deposits. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on operations, the classification of assets and determination of the level of the allowance for loan losses. The purpose of the laws and regulations that govern the Company and the Bank’s operations are designed for the protection of depositors and the public, but not the Company’s stockholders. In July of 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was enacted. The Dodd-Frank Act is a broad legislative initiative that will significantly change the current bank regulatory structure and affect the operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. Under the Dodd-Frank Act the OTS, which had been the primary federal regulator for the Company and the Bank, ceased to exist in July of 2011. At that time the OCC, which is the primary federal regulator for national banks, became the primary federal regulator for federal thrifts such as the Bank. The FRB now supervises and regulates all savings and loan holding companies that were formerly regulated by the OTS, including the Company. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act created the CFPB with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The CFPB has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Dodd-Frank Act also directed the FRB to issue rules to limit debit-card interchange fees, (the fees that issuing banks charge merchants each time a consumer uses a debit card) collected by banks with assets of $10 billion or more. On June 29, 2011, the FRB issued a final rule which would cap an issuer’s debit-card interchange base fee at twenty-one cents ($0.21) per transaction and allow an additional 5 basis point charge per transaction to cover fraud losses. The FRB also issued an interim final rule that allows a fraud-prevention adjustment of one cent ($0.01) per transaction conditioned upon an issuer adopting effective fraud prevention policies and procedures. The rules were effective October 1, 2011. The Bank’s average interchange fee per transaction is thirty-eight cents ($0.38). The Dodd-Frank Act exempts from the FRB’s rule banks with assets less than $10 billion, such as the Bank. Although exempt from this rule, market forces in future periods, may result in reduced fees charged by all issuers, regardless of asset size, which may 34 Table of Contents result in reduced revenues for the Bank. For the year ended December 31, 2012, the Bank’s revenues from interchange fees increased to $2.4 million, as compared to $2.0 million in 2011. In addition, the Group of Governors and Heads of Supervision, the oversight body of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, adopted Basel III in September 2010, which constitutes a strengthened set of capital requirements for banking organizations in the United States and around the world. Basel III is currently the subject of notices of proposed rulemakings released in June of 2012 by the respective U.S. federal banking agencies. The comment period for these notices of proposed rulemakings ended on October 22, 2012. Basel III was intended to be implemented beginning January 1, 2013 and to be fully phased in on a global basis on January 1, 2019. Basel III would require capital to be held in the form of tangible common equity, generally increase the required capital ratios, phase out certain kinds of intangibles treated as capital and certain types of instruments and change the risk weightings of assets used to determine required capital ratios. However, on November 9, 2012, the U.S. federal banking agencies announced that they do not expect that any of the proposed rules would become effective on January 1, 2013. They did not indicate the likely new effective date. These provisions, as well as any other aspects of current or proposed regulatory or legislative changes to laws applicable to the financial industry, may impact the profitability of the Company’s business activities and may change certain business practices, including the ability to offer new products, obtain financing, attract deposits, make loans, and achieve satisfactory interest spreads, and could expose the Company to additional costs, including increased compliance costs. These changes also may require the Company to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes to operations in order to comply, and could therefore also materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Management is actively reviewing the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and Basel III, many of which are to be phased-in over the next several months and years, and assessing the probable impact on operations. However, the ultimate effect of these changes on the financial services industry in general, and the Company in particular, is uncertain at this time. The foreclosure issues affecting the nation’s largest mortgage loan servicers could impact the Bank’s foreclosure process. Several of the nation’s largest mortgage loan servicers have experienced highly publicized issues with respect to their foreclosure processes. As a result, some of these servicers experienced moratoriums on their foreclosures which have now been lifted and have been the subject of state attorney general scrutiny and consumer lawsuits. The largest mortgage loan servicers have recently reached a settlement with the states. In light of these issues, the Bank has reviewed its foreclosure policies and procedures and has not found it necessary to interrupt any foreclosures. Over the past few years, foreclosure timelines have increased significantly due to, among other reasons, delays associated with the significant increase in the number of foreclosure cases. These delays were the result of the economic crisis, additional consumer protection initiatives related to the foreclosure process, increased documentary requirements and judicial scrutiny, and, both voluntary and mandatory programs under which lenders may consider loan modifications or other alternatives to foreclosure. These issues and the potential legal and regulatory responses could impact the foreclosure process and timing to completion of foreclosures for residential mortgage lenders, including the Bank, which might result in a material adverse effect on collateral values and the Bank’s ability to minimize its losses. The foreclosure process in New Jersey remains protracted which delays the Company’s ability to resolve non-performing loans through the sale of the underlying collateral. The Bank’s ability to originate mortgage loans for portfolio has been adversely affected by the increased competition resulting from the unprecedented involvement of the U.S. government and GSEs in the residential mortgage market. Over the past few years, the Federal Reserve has been a consistently large purchaser of U.S. Treasury and GSE-backed mortgage-backed securities. In September 2012, the Federal Open Market Committee announced that these purchases would continue on a monthly basis until certain economic benchmarks are attained. In addition, the Bank has faced increased competition for mortgage loans due to the unprecedented involvement of the GSEs in the mortgage market as a result of the economic crisis. The actions of the Federal 35 Table of Contents Reserve and the GSEs have caused the interest rate for thirty-year fixed-rate mortgage loans that conform to GSE guidelines to remain artificially low. The Bank expects that one-to-four family mortgage loan prepayments will remain at elevated levels and will continue to outpace the production of loans to be held for portfolio. As a result of these factors, it may be difficult for the Bank to originate mortgage loans and grow the residential mortgage loan portfolio, which could have a materially adverse impact on the Bank’s earnings. Further downgrades in the U.S. government’s sovereign credit rating, and in the credit ratings of instruments issued, insured or guaranteed by certain related institutions, agencies and instrumentalities, could result in risks to the Company and the general economy that are unpredictable. On August 5, 2011, Standard & Poor’s downgraded the United States long-term debt rating from its AAA rating to AA+. On August 8, 2011, Standard & Poor’s downgraded the credit ratings of certain long-term debt instruments issued by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and other U.S. government agencies linked to long-term U.S. debt. More recently, Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s) which rates the U.S. as Aaa, announced a negative outlook. Moody’s has stated that government actions are needed to address the budget deficit and create a downward debt trajectory in order to forestall a downgrade to Aa1. Instruments of this nature are key assets on the balance sheets of financial institutions, including the Company. These downgrades could adversely affect the market value of such instruments, and could adversely impact the ability to obtain funding that is collateralized by affected instruments, as well as affecting the pricing of that funding when it is available. The Company cannot predict if, when or how these changes to the credit ratings will affect economic conditions. These ratings downgrades could result in a significant adverse impact to the Company, and could exacerbate the other risks to which the Company is subject. There is no guaranty that the Company will be able to continue to pay a dividend or, if continued, will be able to pay a dividend at the current rate. The Board of Directors of the Company determines at its discretion if, when and the amount of dividends that may be paid on the common stock. In making such determination under the Company’s capital management plan, the Board of Directors takes into account various factors including economic conditions, earnings, liquidity needs, the financial condition of the Company, applicable state law, regulatory requirements and other factors deemed relevant by the Board of Directors. Although the Company has a history of paying a quarterly dividend on its common stock, there is no guaranty that such dividends will continue to be paid in the future, particularly in the event of changes in those factors which may affect the Board of Directors’ determination to pay a dividend. Competition from other banks and financial institutions in originating loans, attracting deposits and providing various financial services may adversely affect profitability and liquidity. The Company has substantial competition in originating loans, both commercial and consumer, in its market area. This competition comes principally from other banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking companies and other lenders. Many of these competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources and access to capital, stronger regulatory ratios and higher lending limits, a wider geographic presence, more accessible branch office locations, the ability to offer a wider array of services or more favorable pricing alternatives, as well as lower origination and operating costs. This competition could reduce the Company’s net income by decreasing the number and size of loans that the Bank originates and the interest rates charged on these loans. In attracting business and consumer deposits, the Company faces substantial competition from other insured depository institutions such as banks, savings institutions and credit unions, as well as institutions offering uninsured investment alternatives, including money market funds. Many of its competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources and access to capital, stronger regulatory ratios, stronger asset quality and performance, more aggressive marketing campaigns, better brand recognition and more branch locations. These competitors may offer higher interest rates than the Company, which could decrease the deposits that the Company attracts or require the Company to increase its rates to retain existing deposits or attract new deposits. Increased deposit competition could materially adversely affect the Company’s ability to generate the funds necessary for lending operations. As a result, the Company may need to seek other sources of funds that may be more expensive to obtain which could increase the cost of funds. 36 Table of Contents The Company’s inability to achieve profitability on new branches may negatively affect earnings. The Bank has expanded its presence within the market area through de novo branching and continually evaluates opportunities for new branches. The profitability of this expansion strategy will depend on whether the income from the new branches will offset the increased expenses resulting from operating these branches. It is expected to take a period of time before these branches or any branches to open can become profitable. During this period, the expense of operating these branches may negatively affect net income. The Company must continue to attract and retain qualified personnel and maintain cost controls and asset quality. The Company’s ability to manage growth successfully will depend on its ability to continue to attract and retain management experienced in banking and financial services and familiar with the communities in its market area. As the Company grows, the Company must be able to attract and retain qualified additional management and loan officers with the appropriate level of experience and knowledge about local market areas to implement the Company’s operating strategy. The unexpected loss of service of any key management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could adversely affect the Company. If the Company grows too quickly and is not able to attract qualified personnel and maintain cost controls and asset quality, this continued growth could adversely affect the Company. Risks associated with system failures, interruptions, or breaches of security could negatively affect earnings. Information technology systems are critical to the Company’s business. Various technology systems are used to manage customer relationships, general ledger, securities investments, deposits and loans. The Company has established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of system failures, interruptions and security breaches, but such events may still occur or may not be adequately addressed if they do occur. In addition, any compromise of systems could deter customers from using products and services. Although the Company relies on security systems to provide security and authentication necessary to effect the secure transmission of data, these precautions may not protect systems from compromises or breaches of security. In addition, a majority of data processing is outsourced to certain third-party providers. If these third-party providers encounter difficulties, or if there is difficulty communicating with them, the ability to adequately process and account for transactions could be affected, and business operations could be adversely affected. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors and their personnel. The occurrence of any system failures, interruption, or breach of security could damage the Company’s reputation and result in a loss of customers and business thereby subjecting the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny, or to litigation and possible financial liability. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s mortgage servicing rights may become impaired which could hurt profits. Mortgage servicing rights are carried at the lower of cost or fair value. Any impairment is recognized as a reduction to servicing fee income. In the event that loan prepayments accelerate due to increased loan refinancing, the fair value of mortgage servicing rights would likely decline. The value of the Company’s deferred tax asset could be reduced if corporate tax rates in the U.S. are decreased. There have been recent discussions in Congress and by the executive branch regarding potentially decreasing the U.S. corporate tax rate. While the Company may benefit in some respects from any decreases in these corporate tax rates, any reduction in the U.S. corporate tax rate would result in a decrease to the value of the net deferred tax asset, which could negatively affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 37 Table of Contents 