Item 1A. Risk Factors In this report we make, and from time-to-time we otherwise make, written and oral statements regarding our business and prospects, such as projections of future performance, statements of management’s plans and objectives, forecasts of market trends, and other matters that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Statements containing the words or phrases “will likely result,” “are expected to,” “will continue,” “is anticipated,” “estimates,” “projects,” “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “target,” “goal,” “plans,” “objective,” “should” or similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which may appear in documents, reports, filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, news releases, written or oral presentations made by officers or other representatives made by us to analysts, stockholders, investors, news organizations and others, and discussions with management and other of our representatives. For such statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. 10 Table of Contents Our future results, including results related to forward-looking statements, involve a number of risks and uncertainties. No assurance can be given that the results reflected in any forward-looking statements will be achieved. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made. Our forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions that are sometimes based upon estimates, data, communications and other information from suppliers, government agencies and other sources that may be subject to revision. Except as required by law, we do not undertake any obligation to update or keep current either: (i) any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances arising after the date of such statement; or (ii) the important factors that could cause our future results to differ materially from historical results or trends, results anticipated or planned by us, or which are reflected from time to time in any forward-looking statement. In addition to other matters identified or described by us from time to time in filings with the SEC, there are several important factors that could cause our future results to differ materially from historical results or trends, results anticipated or planned by us, or results that are reflected from time to time in any forward-looking statement. Some of these important factors, but not necessarily all important factors, include those set out below. We are a defendant in a litigation matter that could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. On March 26, 2010, a complaint (as subsequently amended on May 28, 2010) (the “Complaint”) was filed by certain of our shareholders including Prime Mover Capital Partners L.P., Strata Fund L.P., Strata Fund Q.P. L.P., and Strata Offshore Fund, Ltd (collectively, the “Plaintiffs”) in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York against certain defendants including the Company and certain of our other current and former directors and officers. The Complaint alleges claims related to disclosures concerning our electronic gaming machine participation business (the “Participation Business”), including but not limited to the alleged violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder, violations of Nevada Revised Statutes Sections 90.580(e) and 90.660(3), breach of fiduciary duty, and negligent misrepresentations. The Plaintiffs allege that we and certain other defendants made false and misleading statements about the Participation Business in filings with the SEC, press releases, and other industry and investor conferences and meetings during the period from June 13, 2007 and August 13, 2008 and that the Plaintiffs then purchased the securities at the inflated prices and later suffered economic losses when the price of our securities decreased. On June 22, 2011, the court ruled on the motions to dismiss filed by us and certain of our current and former officers and directors. The court dismissed all of Prime Mover’s claims and dismissed all of Strata’s claims except for two breach-of-contract counts against the Company. All claims against the current and former officers and directors were dismissed. On November 7, 2011, Plaintiffs filed a motion for leave to amend the Complaint for re-pleading all the securities claims against us and all the relevant current and/or former officers and directors. On December 15, 2011, the court granted the Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend the Complaint and on December 20, 2011, the Plaintiff filed a second amended Complaint (the “Second Amended Complaint”) which alleged claim substantially similar to the original claims in the Complaint. The Company and certain current and former officers and directors filed a motion to dismiss the Second Amended Complaint on January 23, 2012. As of the date of this report, the court has not ruled on our motion to dismiss. As the litigation is at a preliminary stage, it is not possible to predict the likely outcome of the case or the probable loss, if any, or the continuation of insurance coverage and, accordingly, no accrual has been made for any possible losses in connection with this matter. We believe that the Plaintiffs’ claims against us and our present and former officers and directors under the Second Amended Complaint are presently covered by our directors and officer insurance policies, which provide the covered parties with up to $15 million of potential insurance coverage. Directors and officer insurance policies, however, generally cover securities claims, not breach of contract claims. In the event that the court dismisses all the securities claims under the Second Amended Complaint, and thus Plaintiffs’ only remaining claims are for breach of contract, then there is a risk that our director and officer insurance may no longer be available to cover the litigation. 11 Table of Contents The Plaintiffs seek unspecified damages, as well as interest, costs and attorneys’ fees. We intend to vigorously defend ourselves against these claims. However, no assurances can be made that we will be successful in our defense of the pending claims. If we are not successful in our defense of such claims, we could be forced to, among other things, make significant payments to resolve these claims or post significant bonds to pursue appeals, and such payments and/or bonds could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, regardless of the outcome of the foregoing matters, these litigation matters themselves may result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, all of which could adversely affect our business. We have achieved strong improvement in financial performance in recent quarters but have a history of significant operating losses. For the year ended December 31, 2011, we have incurred net income of approximately $642,000. However, this is the first year in which we recorded net income. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we incurred a net loss of approximately $5.2 million and prior to our Quasi-Reorganization at December 31, 2010, which among other things, eliminated our accumulated deficit account, with a commensurate reduction in our additional paid-in capital, we had an accumulated deficit of $386.1 million. During the last three years, we have refocused our business operations and streamlined our cost structure, which has resulted in substantially improved financial performance and the generation of positive cash flow from operations. However, we do not have a significant history in our primary focus of operations, EGM participation, and have recently commenced a new line of operations involving our development of regional casinos in the Indo-China region. Our limited operating history in the gaming business makes it difficult for potential investors to evaluate our business or prospective operations. Further, we remain subject to the risks inherent in any developing business, including those mentioned below. While we will endeavor to continue to generate positive cash flows from operations, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in doing so. Due to the nature of our participation operations, the actions of our venue owners with which we partner could impact our financial performance. Our primary focus is currently on the ownership and leasing of EGMs on a revenue sharing basis in certain countries in Asia. We focus on targeting venue owners in underserved gaming markets who have little or no gaming operations experience. Since we participate on a revenue sharing basis with these venue owners, our revenue generated from the revenue sharing arrangements will be dependent to a significant degree on the efforts and capabilities of the venue owners. Our revenues and results from our EGM participation operations may be impacted by the ability of the venue owners to manage the gaming operations of their venues. Accordingly, there can be no guarantee that the venue owners will be able to manage the gaming operations successfully or that the gaming venues operated by them will perform at levels consistent with our financial projections and underlying forecasts and assumptions. Further, we have limited past business relationships with the venue operators and, despite background checks and other due diligence that we may perform, the venue operators may not be reputable. In the event that any of the venue operators are not reputable this would expose us to the risk of being unable to collect the revenue to which we are entitled under the revenue share arrangements and protect our gaming machine assets. We have a dependence on NagaWorld. In Cambodia, our EGM participation operations currently focus primarily on operating a substantial portion of the gaming machine area in prime casino floor locations at NagaWorld, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Hong Kong listed NagaCorp Ltd. (HKSE: 3918). We currently lease 670 EGMs at NagaWorld, representing 45% of our total EGM’s operating on a participation basis as of December 31, 2011, and those machines are among our highest performing units on a net win per day basis. For the year ended December 31, 2011, our operations at NagaWorld accounted for 51% of our consolidated revenues and 80% of our revenue from our EGM participation operations. Although we believe we have a good relationship with NagaCorp, should material events occur that are detrimental to NagaWorld and its operations or cause the loss of this customer, it would have a significant negative impact on our financial performance. We could require additional funding in the future to execute our casino and gaming development plans. As of December 31, 2011, we had working capital of approximately $7.8 million. Since December 31, 2011, our working capital has been positively affected by solid cash flow contribution from our gaming operations, particularly our operations at NagaWorld. 12 Table of Contents We believe we have sufficient cash on hand to fulfill all current obligations as they become due and to fund initial development for our casino development projects in the Kampot Province and Pailin Province of Cambodia and EGM purchase plans. Based on our internal revenue projections, existing casino and gaming development and EGM placement rollout plans and our inventory of EGMs, we also believe we have the needed capital to fund our currently proposed operations over the next 12 months. However, if we were to commit to large casino and gaming development projects or the concurrent development of multiple casino and gaming projects; or should our revenue projections fail to meet our existing internal projections; or should we become required to procure additional EGMs for projects or due to reasons not currently contemplated, we may need to raise additional capital within the next 12 months. We would endeavor to raise funds through various financing sources, including the sale of our equity and debt securities and the procurement of commercial debt financing. However, there can be no guarantees that such funds will be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If such financing is not available on satisfactory terms, we may be unable to expand or continue our business as desired and operating results may be adversely affected. Any debt financing will increase expenses and must be repaid regardless of operating results and may involve restrictions limiting our operating flexibility. If we issue equity securities to raise additional funds, the following results can occur: · the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders will be reduced; · our stockholders may experience additional dilution in net book value per share; and/or · the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock. Intended expansion of gaming operations represents material addition to our business model which has not been proven by us. In May 2010, we announced our intention to expand our gaming operations and become an owner and operator of regional casinos and gaming venues under the “Dreamworld” brand in select emerging gaming markets in Indo-China. While we believe that we can leverage our existing market presence and relationships to execute our casino and gaming development plans, there is no guarantee we will be successful in securing new casino and gaming projects, funding those projects and/or executing our plans to build and operate any of our casino and gaming projects. Since we do not have a prior history in the development of regional casinos, it is difficult for potential investors to evaluate our prospective casino operations. Further, we remain subject to the risks inherent in any developing business, including those mentioned herein. Some of our assumptions will invariably not materialize and some unanticipated events and circumstances occurring subsequently may affect other assumptions. Therefore, the actual results achieved may vary from the pro forma projections considered by our management, and the variations may be material. No assurance can be given that the future results of our casino development operations will meet with consumer acceptance or market success. Our EGM participation and casino development operations are focused in markets outside the United States which exposes us to risks inherent in international business operations. We intend to pursue our gaming machine participation and casino development businesses in certain markets in Pan-Asia. We also focus our sales efforts for our gaming chips and plaques in Asia and Australia, but these efforts may not be successful. Our international operations expose us to risks and challenges that we would otherwise not face if we conducted our business only in the United States, such as: · increased cost of enforcing our intellectual property rights; · heightened price sensitivity from customers in emerging markets; · our ability to establish local manufacturing, support and service functions, and to form channel relationships with resellers in non-U.S. markets; · localization of our EGMs and components, including translation into foreign languages and the associated expenses; · compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations; · foreign currency fluctuations; · laws favoring local competitors; 13 Table of Contents · weaker legal protections of contract terms, enforce recoveries of receivables and intellectual property rights and mechanisms for enforcing those rights; · market disruptions created by public health crises in regions outside the United States, such as Avian flu, SARS and other diseases; · difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, including challenges presented by relationships with workers’ councils and labor unions; and · changing regional economic, political and regulatory conditions. Our gaming operations are presently concentrated in Cambodia and the Philippines, which means that our results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely effected by economic or political developments in either country. Our business model contemplates our development of our EGM participation business throughout Pan-Asia and our casino development business throughout Indo-China, however at the present time our EGM participation business and casino development business are being pursued solely in Cambodia and the Philippines. As a result, we experience significant exposure to the business risks presented by the economies and regulatory environments of those two countries. The Cambodian and the Philippines government exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of their country’s economy through regulation and, in some cases, state ownership. Our ability to operate in Cambodia and the Philippines may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to gaming, taxation, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. For example, in February 2009, Cambodia’s Prime Minister called for the closure of the country’s sole bookmaker, Cambo Six, and all but two of the approximately 70 slot clubs in Cambodia’s Phnom Penh area, all of which had previously been licensed by the Cambodian government. In the Philippines, all gaming operations are controlled by the Philippine Amusement and Gaming Corporation (“PAGCOR”), a government corporation that holds the exclusive right to operate casinos and slot rooms in the Philippines and that reports directly to the Office of the President of the Philippines. While we have no reason to believe at this time that any of our gaming operations or those of our partners, such as NagaWorld, are at risk of adverse government action in Cambodia or the Philippines, the central or local governments of such jurisdictions may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations or which may even restrict the licenses under which we and our partners operate. Likewise, any political turmoil, adverse weather condition, calamity or epidemic occurs in any of these two countries would have a significant negative impact on our business operations and financial performance. We may be exposed to liabilities under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and any determination that we violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practice Act, or FCPA, and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by U.S. persons and issuers as defined by the statute, for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have operations and agreements with third parties throughout Pan-Asia. Our activities in Asia create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by the employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors of our company, even though they may not always be subject to our control. It is our policy to implement safeguards to discourage these practices by our employees. However, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and the employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors of our company may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights. Our success in business, in particular, in relation to our gaming chips and plaques and non-gaming products, is impacted by maintaining the confidentiality and proprietary nature of our intellectual property rights. Our ability to compete may be damaged, and our revenues may be reduced if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights adequately. To protect these rights, we rely principally on a combination of: · contractual arrangements providing for non-disclosure and prohibitions on use; 14 Table of Contents · patents and pending patent applications; · trade secret, copyright and trademark laws; and · certain built-in technical product features. Patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark laws provide limited protection. The protections provided by laws governing intellectual property rights do not prevent our competitors from developing, independently, products similar or superior to our products and technologies. In addition, effective protection of copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks, and other proprietary rights may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries. We may be unaware of certain non-publicly available patent applications, which, if issued as patents, could relate to our services and products as currently designed or as we may modify them in the future. Legal or regulatory proceedings to enforce our patents, trademarks or copyrights could be costly, time consuming, and could divert the attention of management and technical personnel. EGT Entertainment Holding holds a significant interest in our common stock, and is our largest creditor giving EGT Entertainment Holding significant power over our management and all shareholder actions. As of March 15, 2012, EGT Entertainment Holding owned 45.8 million shares of our common stock, representing approximately 38.3% of our issued and outstanding common shares, and as of December 31, 2011 we were indebted to EGT Entertainment Holding in the approximate amount of $6.2 million (representing approximately 53.6% of our total liabilities as of such date). Accordingly, given its equity ownership, EGT Entertainment Holding has significant control over our management and all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the power to elect our board members and effect the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership will make it difficult for other shareholders to effect substantial changes in our Company, and also will have the effect of delaying, preventing or expediting, as the case may be, a further change in our control. Our common stock may be delisted from the NYSE Amex and if this occurs you may have difficulty converting your investment into cash efficiently. The NYSE Amex has established certain standards for the delisting of a security from the NYSE Amex. The standards for delisting from the stock market include, among other things, common stock selling for a substantial period of time at a low price per share, if the issuer fails to effect a reverse split of such shares within a reasonable time after being notified that the stock exchange deems such action to be appropriate. Our common stock has continuously traded below $1.00 since August 2008. While we have not received any communications to date from the NYSE Amex concerning the selling price of our common shares, there can be no assurance that the NYSE Amex will take action to delist our common stock from the exchange due to the low selling price of the shares. If that were to occur, we would consider effecting a reverse split of our common stock in order to raise our share price to a level satisfactory to the NYSE Amex. However, reverse splits of thinly traded shares have, at times, resulted in declining share prices after a proportional adjustment in share price to give effect to the split. If our common stock were to be excluded from the NYSE Amex, or if we elected to conduct a reverse split in order to maintain the listing, the price of our common stock and the ability of holders to sell such stock could be materially adversely affected. Our board of directors may issue blank check preferred stock, which may affect the voting rights of our holders and could deter or delay an attempt to obtain control of us. Our board of directors is authorized, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock in series and to fix and state the voting rights and powers, designation, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights of the shares of each such series and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof. Preferred stock may rank prior to our common stock with respect to dividends rights, liquidation preferences, or both, and may have full or limited voting rights. Accordingly, issuance of shares of preferred stock could adversely affect the voting power of holders of our common stock and could have the effect of deterring or delaying an attempt to obtain control of us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 15 Table of Contents 