D. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information in this annual report on Form 20-F. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operations. If any of these risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer and, if public trading in our shares has resumed, the price of our shares could decline. Risks Related to our Business and Financial Condition. Negative conditions in the national and global economic environments have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Negative economic conditions in markets in which we operate have harmed, and may continue to harm, our business. The global economic downturn that began in 2008 has continued and global financial markets, particularly in Europe, which accounts for approximately 17% of our total revenues, continue to be adversely affected by a multitude of factors. Adverse credit conditions, slower economic activity, increased energy costs, renewed inflation, decreased consumer confidence, reduced capital spending, adverse business conditions, liquidity concerns and other factors have mitigated the strength of economic recovery. During uncertain economic times and in tight credit markets, many of our customers and distributors may experience financial difficulties or be unable or unwilling to borrow money to fund their operations, including obtaining credit lines for leasing equipment, and may delay or reduce technology purchases or reduce the extent of their operations. The market for aesthetic procedures and the market for our higher priced products can be particularly vulnerable to economic uncertainty, since the end users of our products may decrease the demand for our products when they have less discretionary income or feel uneasy about spending their discretionary income. In addition, in many instances, the ability of our customers to purchase our products depends in part upon the availability of bank financing at acceptable interest rates. Furthermore, in the surgical market, in tight economic times where budget deficits are commonplace, hospitals and similar institutions may be less willing or unable to provide the requisite budget for the purchase of our products. For example, many hospitals in the United States have implemented a near freeze on the purchase of expensive capital equipment. These factors have resulted and could continue to result in reductions in revenues from sales of our products, longer sales cycles, difficulties in collection of accounts receivable, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. In addition, weakness in the end-user market could negatively affect the cash flow of our distributors and resellers who could, in turn, delay paying their obligations to us. This would increase our credit risk exposure and cause delays in our recognition of revenues on future sales to these customers. Any of these events would likely harm our business, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 7 Some of our customers’ willingness to purchase our products depends on their ability to obtain reimbursement for medical procedures using our products, and our revenues could accordingly suffer from changes in third-party coverage and reimbursement policies. The customers for our medical products include doctors, clinics, hospitals and other health care providers whose willingness and ability to purchase our products depends in part upon their ability to obtain reimbursement for medical procedures using our products from third-party payers, including private insurance companies, and, in the United States, from health maintenance organizations, and federal, state and local government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. Third-party payers are increasingly scrutinizing health care costs submitted for reimbursement and may deny coverage and reimbursement for the medical procedures made possible by our products. Failure by our customers to obtain adequate reimbursement from third-party payers for medical procedures that use our products, or changes in third-party coverage and reimbursement policies, could have a material adverse effect on our sales, results of operations and financial condition. The markets in which we sell our products are intensely competitive, and increased competition could cause reduced sales levels, reduced gross margins or the loss of market share, and materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition in our markets is intense and we expect it to increase. Competition arises from laser and other light-based products, as well as from other treatment modalities and alternate technologies (not based upon light-based technology). We also face competition from companies selling accessories to, and offering services for, our products, as well as companies selling devices, particularly in the aesthetic market, for home use. Competitors range in size from small, single product companies to large, multifaceted corporations, which may have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than those available to us. Some of these competitors may have greater name recognition, broader product lines, larger customer bases, more extensive relationships with customers and the ability to devote greater resources than we can to the development, promotion, sale and support of products. We also face competition from emerging manufacturers from countries with low-cost economies. Our major direct competitors in our principal markets are: in the surgical market, AMS (through its acquisition of Laserscope), Deka Laser Technologies, Dornier MedTech and SSI Laser Engineering; in the aesthetic market, Alma Lasers, Cutera, Cynosure, Deka Laser Technologies, Lutronic Corporation, Palomar Medical Technologies, Sciton, Solta Medical and Syneron Medical Ltd.; and in the ophthalmic market, Alcon Corporation, Carl Zeiss Meditec, Ellex Medical Lasers, Iridex Corporation, LightMed Corporation, Nidek Technologies, Quantel Corporation and Topcon Medical Corporation. We have experienced decreases in the average selling prices of some of our products and, as competing products become more widely available, the average selling price of our products may decrease further. The effect of increased competition could adversely affect our sales levels, gross margins and market share and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For additional information concerning our competitors, see “Business Overview” in Item 4.B below. Any business combinations or mergers among our competitors that result in larger competitors with greater resources or distribution networks, or the acquisition of a competitor by a major medical or technology corporation seeking to enter this business, or the introduction of new technologies and therapies, could further result in increased competition and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our dependence on a limited number of suppliers, and, in some cases, a sole source supplier, for a key item, exposes us to possible supply interruptions that could delay or prevent the manufacture of our systems and materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Certain key components, sub-assemblies and systems used in our products are manufactured or assembled by a limited number of suppliers or subcontractors and, in certain cases, certain key components are purchased by us from a single source. These components, sub-assemblies and systems may not be available in the future or we may not accurately forecast our component requirements sufficiently in advance. In addition, if we experience an increase in demand for our products, our suppliers may be unable to provide us with the components that we need in order to meet that increased demand. Furthermore, because our products are regulated as medical products, changing suppliers, work processes or procedures can be an extremely burdensome and time-consuming process. An interruption of these or other supplies, and the costs associated with developing alternative sources of supply or assembly, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manufacture and ship some of our products, which would likely result in a loss of sales and which could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 8 Our market is characterized by evolving technological standards and changes in customer requirements, and, if we fail to keep up with such changes, our business, financial position and operating results will be materially adversely affected. Our industry is characterized by extensive research and development, technological change, frequent modifications and enhancements, innovations, new applications, evolving industry standards and changes in customer requirements. Our future success depends on our ability to keep up with these changes and anticipate our customers’ needs and develop and introduce product enhancements that address those needs. This will require us to design, develop, manufacture, assemble, test, market and support upgrades, enhancements and, where necessary, new products on a timely and cost-effective basis. It also requires continued substantial investment in research and development. In 2011, our research and development expenses were approximately 6.7% of our total revenues, and in 2010 and 2009, such expenses were approximately 6.9% and 6.5%, respectively, of our total revenues. Demand for our products could be significantly diminished by new technologies or products that replace them or render them obsolete. We cannot assure that we will successfully identify new technological opportunities and develop and bring new or enhanced products to market in a timely and cost-effective manner, or, if such products are introduced, that those products will achieve market acceptance. Our failure to do so or to address the technological changes and challenges in our markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our indebtedness, which is substantial in relation to our shareholders’ equity (deficiency), is subject to floating interest rates and subjects us to debt service obligations that could have a material adverse effect on our continuing liquidity and financial condition. The total principal amount of our bank debt, which is governed by a debt restructuring agreement, is currently approximately $89.0 million (excluding the sum of approximately $4.3 million, which our bank has agreed to forgive subject to our timely making certain payments). Prior to our December 2006 debt restructuring and again in 2008 and 2009, we had to seek extensions of principal payment dates in connection with our bank debt. The interest rate payable on the various tranches of our bank debt is LIBOR plus 1.5% or LIBOR plus 5.25%. Until repayment of the bank debt, we are subject to certain financial ratio covenants as described under the caption "Financial Covenants" in “Bank Debt Restructuring Agreement, as Amended” in Item 10.C below. Our ability to make due payment of principal and interest and comply with the financial and other covenants under the debt restructuring agreement is subject to the risk factors described herein, and any failure to comply with the covenants could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and operations. Our substantial debt requires us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to debt service, could impair our ability to obtain additional financing for capital expenditures or other purposes, could hinder our ability to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions and competitive pressures, and could make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business or deterioration of general economic conditions. For further information concerning our indebtedness, see “Operating Results” and “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Item 5 below and “Bank Debt Restructuring Agreement, as Amended” in Item 10.C below. Additionally, since all of our debt is subject to floating rates of interest, an increase in LIBOR could materially adversely affect us. We have a history of operating losses and we may not maintain our current profitability. Until 2009, we had incurred net losses for each of the previous eight years. Our net losses from 2005 through 2008 were approximately $11.2 million in 2005, $50.3 million in 2006, $28.1 million in 2007 and $44.2 million in 2008. Although we have achieved net income for each of the years 2009 through 2011, we may not be able to maintain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If we are unable to do so, our financial condition and the value of our shares may be materially adversely affected. Most members of our senior management team are new to their positions and may need time to acquire the requisite knowledge of our company and the specific skills necessary to carry out successfully the tasks required of them, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We have announced the appointment of a new Chief Executive Officer to replace our current Chief Executive Officer, who is expected to leave Lumenis during the second quarter of 2012. For further details, see “Recent Business Developments” in Item 4.A below. In addition, the majority of the members of our senior management, including our Chief Financial Officer, have joined Lumenis or been appointed to senior management since October 2010. Should any members of our senior management fail to perform as expected, or should they or other new key managerial appointees fail to acquire the requisite knowledge and skills in a timely manner, our operations may be disrupted and this may adversely affect our results of operations. For details concerning the professional background and qualifications of the members of our senior management, see “Members of Our Senior Management” in Item 6.A below. 9 If we fail to accurately forecast component and material requirements for our products, we could incur additional costs and delays in shipments, which could result in loss of customers, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. Due to market conditions, our customers and potential customers frequently require delivery of products within a relatively short time frame, and in certain instances, we manufacture our products to be available “on the shelf” for immediate delivery. In order to meet such deadlines, we must accurately predict the demand for our products, the product mix and the lead times required to obtain the necessary components and materials. Lead times for components and materials that we order vary significantly and depend on various factors, including the specific supplier requirements, the size of the order, contract terms and current market demand for components. Due to the sophisticated nature of the components, some of our suppliers may need six months or more lead time. If we overestimate our component and material requirements, we may have excess inventory, which could lead to inventory obsolescence and associated impairments, which would increase our costs, impair our available liquidity and have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If we underestimate our component and material requirements, we may have inadequate inventory, which could interrupt and delay delivery of our products to our customers, expose us to penalties, and strain our relationship with our customers, and, as a consequence, we may lose future sales to such customers. Any of these occurrences would negatively affect our net sales, business and operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of our products are complex in design and could contain defects that are not detected until deployed by our customers and could lead to product liability claims, which could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Laser and pulsed light systems are inherently complex in design and require ongoing scheduled maintenance. Despite testing, the technical complexity of our products, changes in our or our suppliers’ manufacturing processes, the inadvertent use of defective materials by us or our suppliers and other factors could decrease product reliability. If we are unable to prevent or fix defects or other problems, or fail to do so on a timely basis, we could experience, among other things: • Delays in the recognition of revenues or loss of revenues, particularly in the case of new products; • Legal actions by customers, patients and other third parties, which could result in substantial judgments or settlement costs for us; • Loss of customers and market share; • Failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance; • Increased costs of product returns and warranty expenses; • Damage to our reputation; and • Diversion of development, engineering and management resources. We generally provide a 12-month warranty on our laser systems; however, in some instances, we provide a more extended warranty on systems sold to end-users. After the warranty period, maintenance and support is provided on a service contract basis or on an individual call basis. If our products perform poorly, warranty claims may become significant in the future, which could cause a significant drain on our resources and materially adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, some of our products are combined with products from other vendors, which may contain defects. Should problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. There are also risks of physical injury to a patient when treated with one of our products, even if a product is not defective. The coverage limits of our product liability insurance policies may not be adequate to cover future claims. A successful claim brought against us in excess of, or outside of, our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We derive a large portion of our surgical revenues from our relationship with Boston Scientific Corporation and a termination of that relationship could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Boston Scientific Corporation, or Boston Scientific, is one of the major customers for our surgical products in the United States and all sales of our urology products in Japan are made through Boston Scientific. In addition, in January 2011, we formed a co-marketing alliance with Boston Scientific for the promotion of our laser and fibers in the gastroenterology and interventional fields. Any termination or adverse change in this relationship would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 10 Healthcare policy changes, including recently passed legislation to reform the United States healthcare system, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the healthcare industry to potential fundamental changes that could substantially affect our results of operations. Government and private sector initiatives to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including price regulation, competitive pricing, coverage and payment policies, comparative effectiveness of therapies, technology assessments and managed-care arrangements, are continuing in many countries where we do business. These changes are causing the marketplace to put increased emphasis on the delivery of more cost-effective treatments. In the United States, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, to which we refer collectively as the PPACA, were enacted into law in March 2010. Certain provisions of the PPACA will not be effective for a number of years, there are many programs and requirements for which the details have not yet been fully established or consequences not fully understood, and it is unclear what the full impact of the legislation will be. But, because we have significant sales in the United States, the PPACA is expected to materially affect us. Beginning in 2013, the PPACA imposes on medical device manufacturers a 2.3% excise tax on U.S. sales of certain medical devices. As U.S. revenues represented 32% of our total revenues in 2011, this tax burden may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our cash flows. Other provisions of the PPACA could meaningfully change the way healthcare is developed and delivered in the United State, and may adversely affect our business and results of operations. We cannot predict what healthcare programs and regulations will be ultimately implemented at the U.S. federal or state level, or the effect of any future legislation or regulation in the United State or elsewhere. However, any changes that lower reimbursements for our products or reduce medical procedure volumes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar or other currencies and the shekel or other currencies may negatively affect our results of operations. A majority of our revenues are in U.S. dollars, while a significant portion of our expenses, principally salaries and the related personnel expenses for Israeli employees and consultants, local vendors and subcontractors, are in shekels. The remainder of our revenues are in currencies other than shekels and U.S. dollars. As a result, we are exposed to the risk that the U.S. dollar will devalue in relation to the shekel or that the rate of inflation in Israel will exceed the rate of devaluation of the shekel in relation to the dollar or other currencies or that the timing of such devaluation will lag behind inflation in Israel. Such currency fluctuations would have the effect of increasing the dollar cost of our operations and would therefore have a material adverse effect on our dollar-measured results of operations. For example, although the dollar appreciated against the shekel in 2011, the rate of devaluation of the dollar against the shekel was approximately 6.0% in 2010 and 0.7% in 2009, which was compounded by inflation in Israel at rates of approximately 2.7% and 3.9%, in those respective years. This had the effect of increasing the dollar cost of our operations in Israel. Furthermore, because a material portion of our international revenues are not denominated in dollars, a strengthening of the dollar versus other currencies, in particular the euro and the Japanese yen, will negatively affect our sales and related dollar revenues. In 2011 and 2010, the dollar appreciated in relation to the euro by 3.2% and 8.0%, respectively, thereby adversely affecting the dollar value of our European-based sales and related revenues. We cannot predict any future trends in the rate of inflation in Israel or the rate of devaluation or appreciation of the shekel or other currencies against the dollar. Although we engage in currency hedging activities, primarily with regard to the shekel, the Japanese yen and the euro, we may still, nevertheless, be inadequately protected from adverse effects of currency fluctuations and the impact of inflation in Israel. For additional information relating to the impact of exchange rate fluctuations, see “Impact of Inflation and Currency Fluctuations” in Item 5.A below. We depend on international sales, and many of our customers’ operations are also located outside the United States, which exposes us to risks associated with the business environment in those countries. Our revenues are derived primarily from international sales through our international sales subsidiaries and exports to foreign distributors and resellers. In 2011, of our total revenues, approximately 38% were to the Americas (approximately 32% being to the United States), with the remainder divided among the China/Asia Pacific region (approximately 24%); Europe, the Middle East and Africa (or EMEA) (approximately 20%); and Japan (approximately 18%). Less than 1% of our net sales were to Israel. We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for the vast majority of our revenues in the foreseeable future. Our international operations and sales are subject to a number of risks, including: • Longer accounts receivable collection periods and greater difficulties in their collection; • The impact of recessions on economies worldwide; 11 • The stability of credit markets; • Reduced protection for intellectual property in certain jurisdictions; • Political and economic instability; • Regulatory limitations imposed by foreign governments; • Impact of epidemics and other occurrences likely to adversely affect local economies; • Impact of earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters; • Impact of military or civil conflicts; • Other political risks; • Disruption or delays in shipments caused by customs brokers or government agencies; • Imposition by governments of controls that prevent or restrict the transfer of funds; • Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs, customs, duties, tax laws and other trade barriers; • Difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • Preference for locally produced products; • Difficulties in protecting or enforcing intellectual property rights in certain foreign countries (especially in the China / Asia Pacific region), as described below; and • Potentially adverse tax consequences resulting from changes in tax laws. We are also subject to the risks of fluctuating foreign exchange rates, described above, which could materially adversely affect the sales price of our products in foreign markets as well as the costs and expenses of our international subsidiaries. If we fail to overcome the challenges that we encounter in our international sales operations, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition to the general risks listed above, our operations in Israel are subject to certain country-specific risks described below under “Risks Relating Primarily to our Location in Israel”. We rely on our direct sales force and network of international distributors to sell our products, and any failure to maintain our direct sales force and distributor relationships could harm our business and results of operations. Our ability to sell our products and generate revenue depends upon our direct sales force and relationships with independent distributors. Our direct sales force consists of approximately 275 employees, and any failure to maintain our sales force could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. We maintain relationships with over 135 independent distributors internationally, selling our products in over 80 countries through our four regional sales and service centers for: the Americas; China/Asia Pacific; EMEA; and Japan. We generally sell directly in the United States, Germany, Japan, China (including Hong Kong) and India, as well as for certain of our products in Italy. Elsewhere, we generally sell our products through our distributors. The amount and timing of resources dedicated by our distributors to the sales of our products is not within our control. Our sales outside of the countries in which we sell directly are entirely dependent on the efforts of these third parties. If any distributor breaches its agreement with us or fails to generate sales of our products, we may be forced to seek to replace the distributor, and our ability to sell our products into that exclusive sales territory, and consequently our business and results of operations, could be materially adversely affected. We do not have any long-term employment contracts with the members of our direct sales force. We may be unable to replace our direct sales force personnel with individuals of equivalent technical expertise and qualifications, which may limit our revenues and our ability to maintain market share. The loss of the services of these key sales personnel would harm our business and results of operations. Similarly, our distributorship agreements are generally terminable at will by either party, and distributors may terminate their relationships with us, which would affect our international sales and results of operations. We face various risks in the manufacture of our products that could result in disruptions and other constraints on the manufacturing process that could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. The manufacture of our lasers and the related delivery devices is a highly complex and precise process. We assemble critical subassemblies and most of our final products at our facilities in Salt Lake City, Utah and Yokneam, Israel. In addition, we procure certain turn-key systems from several suppliers under original equipment manufacturer (OEM) agreements. We may experience manufacturing difficulties, quality issues or assembly constraints, both in respect of existing products and with regard to new products that we may introduce. We may experience delays, disruptions, capacity constraints or quality problems in our manufacturing operations and, as a result, product shipments to our customers could be delayed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 12 We may be required to implement a product recall, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the event that products that we manufacture or sell prove to be defective, we may voluntarily recall them or implement a field correction, or the FDA, or other regulatory authority could require us to implement a recall or a field correction, or a manufacturer or distributor of one of the products that we distribute could require us to implement a recall or field correction. Any such recall or correction could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We and several of our subsidiaries are currently under examination by local tax authorities and may be subject to additional tax demands, interest and penalties, which may adversely affect our financial condition. The amounts of tax ultimately paid by us may deviate significantly from amounts for which we have made provision in our financial statements. Currently, we are subject to a tax audit by the Israel Tax Authorities in respect of fiscal years 2004 through 2010 (excluding 2007) and our subsidiary in France is under examination for tax in respect of fiscal years 2007 through 2009. We cannot assure you that we will not be subject to future significant assessments for tax (including value added tax), customs duties, penalties and other levies by applicable authorities in these countries or elsewhere. In such event, we may be required to pay additional amounts, as a result of which our financial condition may be adversely affected. We depend on cooperative arrangements with third parties to develop, introduce and market new products, product enhancements and new applications. The failure of such arrangements or our inability to enter into such arrangements in the future could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. We depend on both clinical and commercial cooperative arrangements with third parties in connection with the research innovation and clinical testing of our products. We have entered into such cooperative arrangements with academic medical centers and physicians. The failure to make such cooperative arrangements in the future, or the failure of any current or future cooperative arrangements, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to introduce new products or applications and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We require significant cash funds for our operations, and should we fail to generate or otherwise raise requisite funds, it could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. Internally generated funds, together with available cash, may not be sufficient to meet our day-to-day operating expenses, commitments, working capital, capital expenditure and debt payment requirements. The level of internally generated funds is subject to the risk factors described herein, and must be viewed in light of our earlier history of substantial operating and net losses and negative cash flow from operations. If we are unsuccessful in achieving our plans, we will again need to seek additional sources of financing in order to continue operations. Such financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all, and could be limited by our need to comply with the negative covenants contained in the debt restructuring agreement governing our bank debt. (For additional details, see “Bank Debt Restructuring Agreement, as Amended” in Item 10.C below.) If additional financing were to be in the form of equity, it could result in substantial further dilution to our shareholders, as occurred in connection with the issue of shares and warrants under share purchase agreements in December 2006, as discussed in “2006 Purchase Agreement - Issuance of Additional Shares to Major Shareholders” in Item 7.A below, and, to a lesser extent, in an equity financing in June 2009 (to which we refer as the 2009 Equity Financing), in which we raised an aggregate of $15.0 million from our two existing major shareholders and a new external investor investing through two parallel funds. We have allocated substantial sums to goodwill as a result of the acquisitions made by us over the years. If it should become necessary to write off a material part of this goodwill, our results of operations would be materially adversely affected. At December 31, 2011, we had a balance of $50.2 million allocated to goodwill in connection with various acquisitions made by us in previous years. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if impairment indicators are present. Should a test reveal that there has been an impairment of the value of goodwill, it would be necessary to write down or write off the amount of the impairment. In 2008, we recorded impairment of goodwill in the amount of approximately $22.6 million in respect of our Aesthetic business. A substantial impairment of goodwill could materially adversely affect our results of operations. 13 The long initial sales cycles for our products may cause us to incur significant expenses without offsetting revenues, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Customers typically expend significant effort in evaluating, testing and qualifying our products before making a decision to purchase them, resulting in a lengthy initial sales cycle. While our customers are evaluating our products, we may incur substantial sales and marketing, and research and development, expenses to customize our products to customer needs. We may also expend significant management efforts, increase manufacturing capacity and order long-lead-time components or materials. Even after this evaluation process, a potential customer may not purchase our products. As a result, these long initial sales cycles may cause us to incur significant expenses without ever receiving revenue to offset those expenses and, in the aggregate, may materially adversely affect our results of operations. Difficulties in renewing or redesigning old testing equipment could limit our ability to manufacture certain products, which could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. In many instances, the testing equipment for our products and sub-assemblies is reaching the end of its useful life, and, accordingly, such equipment may need to be renewed or redesigned. Duplicating such testing equipment is often extremely difficult, in particular, but not limited to, with respect to equipment relating to product lines acquired as a result of mergers and acquisitions or which may not have adequate documentation. Difficulty in renewing or maintaining such systems may limit our or our sub-contractors’ ability to manufacture assemblies that pass the required testing procedures, or require us to increase our capital expenditure, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Some of the components to build our older products are no longer readily available, which may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Some of the key components we purchase for building our older products have ceased to be manufactured and are becoming increasingly difficult to purchase. Where a supplier can be found, the price of such components may be disproportionately high, and the components are frequently unavailable in sufficient quantity. Furthermore, such components are often sold by dealers and, as a result, often lack the manufacturer’s warranty. These difficulties may affect the overall cost of production and, in severe cases, may cause production stoppages, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our products are subject to U.S., European Union and other national and international medical and other regulations and controls, compliance with which imposes substantial financial costs on us and can prevent or delay the introduction of new products, which could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our ability to sell our products is subject to various federal, state, national and international rules and regulations. In the United States, we are subject to inspection and market surveillance by the FDA to determine compliance with regulatory requirements. The regulatory process is costly, lengthy and uncertain. Unless an exemption applies, each device that we intend to market in the United States must receive prior review by the FDA before it can be marketed. Certain products qualify for a Section 510(k) procedure under which the manufacturer provides the FDA with pre-market notification of its intention to commence marketing the product. The manufacturer must, among other things, establish that the product to be marketed is “substantially equivalent” to a previously marketed medical device. In some cases, the manufacturer may be required to include clinical data gathered under an investigational device exemption, to which we refer as an IDE, granted by the FDA, allowing human clinical studies. The FDA’s 510(k) clearance process usually takes from three to eight months, but it can take longer. If a product does not qualify for the 510(k) procedure, the manufacturer must file a pre-market approval application, to which we refer as a PMA, based on testing intended to demonstrate that the product is both safe and effective. The PMA requires more extensive clinical testing than the 510(k) procedure and generally involves a significantly longer FDA review process. Approval of a PMA allowing commercial sale of a product requires pre-clinical laboratory and animal tests and human clinical studies conducted under an IDE establishing safety and effectiveness. For products subject to pre-market approval, the regulatory process generally takes from one to three years or more and involves substantially greater risks and commitment of resources than the 510(k) clearance process. We may not be able to obtain necessary regulatory approvals or clearances on a timely basis, if at all, for any of our products under development, and delays in receipt of, or failure to receive, such approvals or clearances could have a material adverse effect on our business. Following clearance or approval, marketed products are subject to continuing regulation. We are required to adhere to the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, to which we refer as QSR, and similar regulations in other countries, which include design, testing, quality control and documentation requirements. Ongoing compliance with QSR, labeling and other applicable regulatory requirements is monitored through periodic inspections and market surveillance by the FDA and by comparable agencies in other countries. 14 Our failure to comply with applicable requirements could lead to an enforcement action, which could have an adverse effect on our business. The FDA can institute a wide variety of enforcement actions, ranging from a public warning letter to more severe sanctions such as: • Fines, injunctions and civil penalties; • Recall or seizure of our products; • Requiring us to repair, replace or refund the cost of our products; • The issuance of public notices or warnings; • Operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production; • Refusal of our requests for 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval of new products; • Withdrawal of 510(k) clearance or pre-market approvals already granted; and • Criminal prosecution. Similarly, the European Union, or the E.U., determined in 1998 that the marketing or selling of any medical product or device within the E.U. necessitates a CE Mark. We are now required to comply with the European Medical Device Directive’s criteria and obtain the CE Mark prior to the sale of our medical products in any E.U. member state. The European Medical Device Directive sets out specific requirements for each stage in the development of a medical product, from design to final inspection. Our products are subject to additional similar regulations in most of the international markets in which we sell our products. Changes to existing U.S., E.U. and other national and international rules and regulations could adversely affect our ability to sell our current and future lines of products in the United States, the E.U. and internationally, increase our costs and materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. A substantial portion of our sales are completed in the last few weeks of each calendar quarter, and if such anticipated sales do not materialize, that could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. We typically receive a disproportionate percentage of orders toward the end of each calendar quarter, including the fourth quarter. To the extent that we do not receive anticipated orders, or orders are delayed beyond the end of the applicable quarter or year, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, because a significant portion of our sales in each quarter result from orders received in that quarter, we base our production, inventory and operating expenditure levels on anticipated revenue levels. Thus, if sales do not occur when expected, expenditure levels could be disproportionately high and operating results for that quarter and, potentially, future quarters would be adversely affected. Our operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year. Our sales and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year in the future. Our operating results are affected by a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Factors contributing to these fluctuations include, but are not limited to, the following: • General economic uncertainties and political concerns; • The cost and timing of the introduction and market acceptance of new products, product enhancements and new applications; • Changes in demand for our existing line of products; • The cost and availability of components and subassemblies, including the ability of the sole or limited source suppliers of some of our components to deliver components at the times and prices that we have planned; • Our ability to maintain sales volumes at a level sufficient to cover fixed manufacturing and operating costs; • Fluctuations in our product mix between surgical, aesthetic and ophthalmic products, and in the proportions of sales among our primary geographical markets; • The effect of, and changes in, regulatory approval requirements; • Introduction of new products, product enhancements and new applications by our competitors, entry of new competitors into our markets, pricing pressures and other competitive factors; • Our long and highly variable sales cycle; • Changes in the prices at which we can sell our products; 15 • The size and timing of customers’ orders and changes in customers’ or potential customers’ budgets as a result of, among other things, reimbursement policies of government programs and private insurers for treatments that use our products; • Increased product innovation costs; • Foreign currency fluctuations; • One-time charges, goodwill write downs and write-offs due to inventory obsolescence; and • Changes in accounting rules. In addition to these factors, our quarterly results have been, and are expected to continue to be, affected by seasonal factors. Our expense levels are based, in part, on expected future sales. If sales levels in a particular quarter do not meet expectations, we may be unable to adjust operating expenses quickly enough to compensate for the shortfall of sales, and our results of operations may be adversely affected. Due to these and other factors, we believe that quarter to quarter and year to year comparisons of our past operating results may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our results for any quarter or year as an indication of our future performance. Our operating results in future quarters and years may be below expectations, which would likely cause a decline in the value of our shares. We depend on skilled personnel to operate our business effectively in a rapidly changing market, and if we are unable to retain existing, or hire additional, skilled personnel, our ability to develop and sell our products could be harmed, and our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our key senior management, sales, technical and scientific personnel, any of whom could be difficult to replace. Competition for qualified employees is intense, and our business could be materially adversely affected by the loss of the services of any of our existing key personnel, whether through resignation, death or injury. We cannot assure that we will continue to be successful in hiring and retaining properly trained and experienced personnel. Our inability to attract, retain, motivate and train qualified new personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The use of toxic and other hazardous material in some of the production processes for products sold by us could result in claims against us that could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. We and/or the manufacturers of products distributed by us use laboratory and manufacturing materials that could be considered hazardous, and we could be liable for any damage or liability resulting from accidental environmental contamination or injury. Some of the gases used in the excimer lasers distributed by us may be highly toxic. The risk of accidental environmental contamination or injury from such materials cannot be entirely eliminated. In the event of an accident involving such materials, we could be liable for any damage, and such liability could exceed the amount of our liability insurance coverage and the resources of our business, and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If our facilities were to experience catastrophic loss, our business and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Certain of our facilities, due to their physical location, could be subject to a catastrophic loss such as earthquake, flood or wildfire. Any such loss at any of our facilities could disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in large expenses to repair or replace facilities, and our insurance might not be sufficient to cover such loss. Any such loss could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Man-made problems such as computer viruses, cyber-security breaches or terrorism may disrupt our operations and materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our servers and equipment may be subject to computer viruses, break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with computer systems. A cyber-attack that bypasses our information technology (IT) security systems causing an IT security breach may lead to a material disruption of our IT business systems and/or the loss of business information. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, the continued worldwide threat of terrorism and heightened security, in response to such threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause further disruptions and create further uncertainties or otherwise materially harm our business. To the extent that such disruptions or uncertainties result in delays or cancellations of customer orders or the manufacture or shipment of our products, or in theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation or release of our confidential data or our intellectual property, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 16 Any acquisitions that we may make could harm or disrupt our business and adversely affect our results of operations without bringing the anticipated synergies. We have in the past made acquisitions of other businesses, technologies and/or assets, and we continue to evaluate potential strategic acquisitions. In the event of any future acquisitions, we could: issue shares or other securities that would dilute our current shareholders’ percentage ownership; pay cash; incur debt; or assume liabilities, and such acquisitions could lead to the impairment or amortization of intangible assets. The size and manner of any such acquisition could be limited by our need to comply with the negative covenants contained in the debt restructuring agreement governing our bank debt. For additional details, see “Bank Debt Restructuring Agreement, as Amended” in Item 10.C below. Such acquisitions could also involve numerous risks, including: • Problems combining the acquired operations, technologies (including information technology systems) or products with our own; • Unanticipated costs or liabilities; • Adverse effects on existing business relationships with distributors, suppliers and customers; • Entering markets in which we may have no or limited prior experience; • Diversion of management’s attention from our core businesses; and • Potential loss of key employees, particularly those of the purchased organizations. Any such acquisitions in the future could strain our managerial, operational and financial resources, as well as our financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. In order to integrate acquired businesses, we must continue to improve operating and financial systems and controls. If we fail to successfully implement these systems and controls in a timely and cost-effective manner, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If we fail to manage growth effectively, our business could be disrupted, which could harm our operating results. We have experienced and may continue to experience growth in one or more of our business units. We have made and expect to continue to make significant investments to enable our future growth through, among other things, new product innovation and clinical trials for new applications and products. We must also be prepared to expand our work force and to train, motivate and manage additional employees as the need for additional personnel arises. Our personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our future operations. Any failure to manage future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property. We may not be able to protect our proprietary technology, and its unauthorized use by a third party could materially adversely affect our competitive advantage, business and results of operations. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements, licenses, assignments of invention agreements and other restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. We have obtained and now hold approximately 265 patents worldwide and have applied for approximately 75 additional patents worldwide. Our patent applications may not be approved, and any patents that may be issued may not be adequate to protect our intellectual property. Additionally, any issued patents may be challenged by third parties, and patents that we hold may be found by a judicial authority to be invalid or unenforceable. Other parties may independently develop similar or competing technology or design around any patents that may be issued to or held by us. We cannot be certain that the steps that we have taken will prevent the misappropriation of our intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries in which laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Moreover, if we lose any key personnel, we may not be able to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge or other trade secrets by those former employees. For additional details concerning our intellectual property, see “Patents and Intellectual Property” in Item 4.B below. If we are unable to maintain the security of our proprietary technology, it could materially adversely affect our competitive advantage, business and results of operations. 17 We are, or may become, subject to litigation regarding intellectual property rights, the results of which could seriously harm our business and materially adversely affect our results of operations. The laser and light-based systems industry is characterized by a very large number of patents, some of which may be of questionable scope, validity or enforceability, and some of which appear to overlap with other issued patents. As a result, there is a significant amount of uncertainty in the industry regarding patent protection and infringement. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights. We have been, and in the future may be, a party to claims and litigation as a result of alleged infringement by third parties of our intellectual property (see “Legal Proceedings” in Item 8.A below) or to determine the scope and validity of our intellectual property or the intellectual property of competitors, and may also become subject to claims and litigation alleging infringement by us of third party intellectual property. These claims and any resulting lawsuits, if resolved adversely to us, could subject us to significant liability for damages or invalidate or render unenforceable our intellectual property. In addition, because patent applications can take many years until the patents issue, there may be applications now pending of which we are unaware, which may later result in issued patents that our products may infringe. If any of our products infringes a valid and enforceable patent, or if we wish to avoid potential intellectual property litigation on its alleged infringement, we could be prevented from selling that product unless we can obtain a license, which may be unavailable. Alternatively, we could be forced to pay substantial royalties or redesign a product to avoid infringement. We also may not be successful in any attempt to redesign our product to avoid any alleged infringement. A successful claim of infringement against us, or our failure or inability to develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed technology, on acceptable terms and on a timely basis, if at all, could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Furthermore, such lawsuits, regardless of their success, would likely be time-consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert management’s time and attention, which could seriously harm our business. If material patents were to expire prior to our developing and patenting successful innovations to replace such technology, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Patents filed both in the United States and Europe now generally have a life of twenty years from the filing date. Patents filed in the United States prior to June 1995 expire the later of twenty years from filing or seventeen years from their respective issue date. We hold several important patents that are due to expire in the next few years. If our expired patents are still material to our business at the time of expiration and we fail to develop and patent successful innovations before such patents expire, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Risks Relating Primarily to Our Location in Israel. Regional instability in Israel and the Middle East may adversely affect our operations and may limit our ability to produce and sell our products. We are incorporated in Israel and our principal executive offices, one of our two principal manufacturing facilities, a substantial portion of our research and development facilities and our Surgical and Aesthetic business units are located in Israel. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel and elsewhere in the Middle East could directly affect our operations. We could be harmed by any major hostilities involving Israel, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel. In the event of war, we and our Israeli subcontractors and suppliers may cease operations, which may cause delays in the development, manufacturing or shipment of our products. During the Second Lebanon War of 2006, between Israel and Hezbollah, a militant Islamic movement in Lebanon supported by Syria, rockets were fired from Lebanon into Israel causing casualties and major disruption of economic activities in the north of Israel. Our Yokneam facility was within the range of the rocket attacks, and operations in such facility were significantly curtailed for a period of several weeks. An escalation in tension and violence between Israel and the militant Hamas movement (which controls the Gaza Strip) and other Palestinian Arab groups, culminated with Israel’s military campaign in Gaza in December 2008 and January 2009 in an endeavor to prevent continued rocket attacks against Israel’s southern towns. Direct negotiations between Israel and the Palestinian Authority with the ultimate aim of reaching an official “final status settlement” are currently suspended and it is by no means clear if, and when, they will be restarted. In addition, Israel faces threats from more distant neighbors, in particular, the Islamic Republic of Iran, an ally of Hezbollah and Hamas. Since December 2010, a wave of demonstrations and civil protests has been taking place throughout the Arab states of the Middle East and North Africa, which has so far resulted in regime change in several states, including Egypt, with whom Israel signed a peace treaty in 1979. It is uncertain what impact these changes may have on Israel's relations with its Arab neighbors, in general, or on our operations in the region, in particular. Were these changes to result in the establishment of new fundamentalist Islamic regimes or governments more hostile to Israel, or, for example, were the new Egyptian regime to abrogate its peace treaty with Israel, this could have serious consequences for the peace and stability in the region, place additional political, economic and military confines upon Israel and could materially adversely affect our operations and limit our ability to sell our products to countries in the region. Furthermore, several countries, principally in the Middle East, restrict doing business with Israel and Israeli companies, and additional countries may impose restrictions on doing business with Israel and Israeli companies if hostilities in the region continue or intensify. Such restrictions may seriously limit our ability to sell our products to customers in those countries. 18 Our business insurance does not cover losses that may occur as a result of events associated with the security situation in the Middle East. Although the Israeli government currently covers the reinstatement value of direct damages that are caused by terrorist attacks or acts of war, we cannot assure you that this government coverage will be maintained or that such coverage will be adequate or proportional to the actual direct and indirect damage. Any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our operations could be disrupted as a result of the obligation of personnel in Israel to perform military service. Generally, all male adult citizens and permanent residents of Israel under the age of 45 (or older in specific instances) are, unless exempt, obligated to perform military reserve duty annually, and are subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. Currently, many of our employees are obligated to perform annual reserve duty. In the event of severe unrest or other conflict, individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. In response to increased tension and hostilities, there have been occasional call-ups of military reservists, as was the case most recently in connection with Israel’s military campaign in Gaza in December 2008 and January 2009, and it is possible that there will be additional call-ups in the future. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence of a significant number of our employees related to military service or the absence for extended periods of one or more of our executive officers or other key employees for military service. Such disruption could materially adversely affect our business and operating results. The tax benefits that we receive in respect of our Approved Enterprise and Privileged Enterprise programs require us to meet several conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which may result in our being required to pay increased taxes. Certain of our activities receive or claim Approved Enterprise or Privileged Enterprise status under the Israeli Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 5719-1959. The tax benefits available to us by virtue of such status depend upon the fulfillment by us of conditions. If we do not meet such conditions, these tax benefits may be cancelled and we could be required to refund any tax benefits that we have already received, plus interest and penalties thereon. Additionally, if we increase our activities outside of Israel, for example, via future acquisitions, our increased activities might not be eligible for inclusion in Israeli tax benefit programs. For additional details, see “Israeli Tax Considerations and Government Programs - Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments” in Item 4.B below. Grants available from the Israeli government for research and development expenditures restrict our ability to manufacture products and transfer know-how outside of Israel and require us to satisfy specified conditions. If we fail to comply with such restrictions or such conditions, we may be required to refund grants previously received, together with interest and penalties, and may be subject to criminal charges. We have received in the past, and may receive in the future, grants from the Government of Israel through the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor for the financing of a portion of our research and development expenditures in Israel. However, apart from a grant returned in January 2011, we had not received or accrued any such grants since at least 2001, and we cannot assure you that we will receive any such grants in the future. The terms of the Chief Scientist grants restrict us from manufacturing products developed using these grants outside of Israel without special approvals. In addition, decreases of the percentage of manufacturing performed in Israel from that originally declared in the application to the Office of the Chief Scientist may require us to notify or to obtain a prior approval from the Office of the Chief Scientist. Even if we receive approval to manufacture our products outside of Israel, we may be required to pay an increased total amount of royalties, which may be up to 300% of the grant amount, plus interest, depending on the manufacturing volume that is performed outside of Israel. In addition, know-how developed under an approved research and development program may not be transferred to any third parties, except in certain circumstances and subject to prior approval. These restrictions may impair our ability to outsource manufacturing or our ability to enter into agreements with respect to those products or know-how, without the appropriate approval. We cannot assure that any such approval will be obtained on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. In addition, if we fail to comply with any of the conditions imposed by the Office of the Chief Scientist, including the payment of royalties with respect to grants received, we may be required to refund any grants previously received, together with interest and penalties, and, in certain cases, may be subject to criminal charges. The Office of the Chief Scientist is currently carrying out a full review of all royalties paid, or to be paid, by us in connection with all grants received by us from the Office of the Chief Scientist, which could result in our being required to pay to the Office of the Chief Scientist additional royalties and interest. For additional details, see “Israeli Tax Considerations and Government Programs - Tax Benefits and Grants for Research and Development” in Item 4.B below. It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our officers and our directors in Israel based on U.S. securities laws claims or to serve process on our officers and directors. We are incorporated in Israel. The majority of our executive officers and directors are not residents of the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside of the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult for a shareholder, or any other person or entity, to enforce a U.S. court judgment based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws in a U.S. or Israeli court against us or any of our executive officers or directors, or to effect service of process upon such persons in the United States. In addition, it may be difficult to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws because Israel is not the most appropriate forum in which such a claim should be brought. Even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Also, certain matters of procedure will be governed by Israeli law. 19 Provisions of Israeli law could delay, prevent or make difficult a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. The Companies Law generally provides that a merger be approved by the board of directors and by the shareholders of a participating company by the vote of a majority of the shares of each class present and voting on the proposed merger. The Companies Law has specific provisions for determining the majority of the shareholders’ vote. Upon the request of any creditor of a constituent in the proposed merger, a court may delay or prevent the merger if it concludes that there is a reasonable concern that, as a result of the merger, the surviving company will be unable to satisfy its obligations to creditors. In general, a merger may not be completed until the passage of certain statutory time periods. In certain circumstances, an acquisition of shares in a public company must be made by means of a tender offer that complies with certain requirements of the Companies Law that differ from those that apply to U.S. corporations. Israeli tax law treats some acquisitions, such as stock-for-stock exchanges between an Israeli company and a foreign company, less favorably than U.S. tax laws. These provisions of Israeli corporate and tax law may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making more difficult an acquisition of or merger with us, which, if public trading in our ordinary shares resumes, could depress our share price. Under current Israeli law, we may not be able to enforce covenants not to compete, and, therefore, we may be unable to prevent competitors from benefiting from the expertise of some of our former employees. In general, we have entered into non-competition agreements with our employees in the United States and Israel. These agreements prohibit our employees, if they cease working for us, from competing directly with us or working for our competitors for a limited period. Under current law, we may be unable to enforce these agreements, and it may be difficult for us to restrict our competitors from gaining the expertise that our former employees gained while working for us. For example, Israeli courts have required employers seeking to enforce non-compete undertakings of a former employee to demonstrate that the competitive activities of the former employee will harm one of a limited number of material interests of the employer that have been recognized by the courts, such as the secrecy of a company’s confidential commercial information or its intellectual property. If we cannot demonstrate that harm would be caused to our material interests, we may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of our former employees. We are a foreign private issuer and you will receive less information about us than you would from a domestic U.S. corporation. As a “foreign private issuer”, we are exempt from rules under the Exchange Act that impose certain disclosure and procedural requirements in connection with proxy solicitations under Section 14 of the Exchange Act. Our directors, executive officers and principal shareholders also are exempt from the reporting and “short-swing” profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules thereunder with respect to their purchases and sales of our shares. In addition, we are not required to file periodic reports and financial statements with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as U.S. companies whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act. As a result, you may not be able to obtain the same information relating to us as you would for a domestic U.S. corporation. Risks Related to an Investment in Our Shares. Each of Viola-LM Partners L.P. and Ofer Hi-Tech Investments Ltd. holds a significant portion of our shares, and their vote may determine the outcome of any matter brought to a shareholders’ vote. Viola-LM Partners L.P. currently has voting power in respect of approximately 45.3% of the total voting rights in Lumenis (approximately 46.3% assuming exercise of outstanding warrants and options beneficially owned by Viola-LM Partners L.P. and its general partner) and Ofer Hi-Tech Investments Ltd. and its affiliates currently have voting power in respect of approximately 34.9% of the total voting rights in Lumenis (approximately 35.5% assuming exercise of outstanding warrants held by Ofer Hi-Tech Investments Ltd.). For additional details relating to the share ownership of our Major Shareholders, see “Ownership by Major Shareholders” and “2006 Purchase Agreement - Issuance of Additional Shares to Major Shareholders” in Item 7.A below. Although Viola-LM Partners L.P. and Ofer Hi-Tech Investments Ltd. purchased our ordinary shares separately and have not entered into any voting agreement between themselves with respect to our shares, they are collectively able to elect a majority of the members of our board of directors, and if they vote in the same manner on any matter submitted to our shareholders for approval (for example, any amendment to our articles of association and any approval of a merger), their vote could determine the result on such matter. Their voting power and the concentration of voting power in their hands could have the effect of delaying or preventing an acquisition of our Company on terms that other shareholders might find attractive or of approving an acquisition of our Company on terms other shareholders might find unattractive. 20 Shareholders, other than the investors in our 2006 recapitalization and the 2009 Equity Financing, may experience further dilution should we incur losses, indemnities, liabilities and expenses in excess of insurance in connection with certain litigation or proceedings relating to the period prior to our 2006 recapitalization. The purchase agreement in connection with our 2006 recapitalization (to which we refer as the 2006 Purchase Agreement) contains a mechanism for post-closing adjustments to the number of shares issued to the investors in the recapitalization. Such adjustments are made for all losses, indemnities, liabilities and expenses exceeding, or not otherwise covered by, our insurance coverage, in connection with certain identified actions and proceedings that have now been mostly concluded, as well as any other action, proceeding or investigation concerning securities and corporate governance matters and relating, in whole or in part, to matters occurring prior to the closing of the 2006 Purchase Agreement. Adjustment for this purpose is made by the issuance to the investors of additional ordinary shares for no additional consideration. Approximately 24.5 million additional shares were issued in March 2009 to the investors and their assignees under the adjustment mechanism in connection with the conclusion of most of the identified actions and proceedings. The adjustment mechanism remains operative until five years after any relevant matter was first submitted to court. We were notified in 2010 that the IRS has requested information from Kevin Morano, who served as our chief financial officer from 2002 to 2004, regarding monies paid to him pursuant to an indemnification agreement from us. Mr. Morano is asserting that the costs pertaining to such IRS tax audit and any resulting tax are subject to indemnification from us. We deny any liability in respect of such demand for indemnification. However, we cannot assure you that we will not ultimately be required to make such indemnification payments, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, such payments may give rise to the issuance of additional shares under the adjustment mechanism, although these are not expected to result in material dilution to our shareholders. We cannot assure you that no matters exist that could result in the commencement of future actions, proceedings or investigations to which the adjustment mechanism would apply, nor that any ensuing adjustment as a consequence thereof could not result in further material dilution of our shareholders, other than the investors under the 2006 Purchase Agreement and the 2009 Equity Financing. For additional details, see “2006 Purchase Agreement - Issuance of Additional Shares to Major Shareholders” in Item 7.A below. Since our shares are not listed or quoted for trading, they are relatively illiquid. Our shares were listed on the NASDAQ National Market (now known as the NASDAQ Global Market) until February 2004 and were quoted in the over-the-counter market on the Pink Sheets Electronic Quotation Service until April 2006. As part of a settlement of civil proceedings brought by the SEC, the SEC revoked the registration of our shares under Section 12 of the Exchange Act in April 2006. As a result of the deregistration, our shares could not be quoted or publicly traded in the United States until we re-registered our shares with the SEC. On May 1, 2007, we filed a registration statement under Section 12 of the Exchange Act, following which our shares again became eligible for quotation or trading in the United States. However, our shares remain unlisted and unquoted, no trading has commenced on a national securities exchange and we are not aware of any other trading in our shares. We cannot assure you, if and when we do apply for listing of our shares or for quotation or trading on NASDAQ or on any other securities exchange or quotation system, that such application will be approved and, if approved, whether we will be able to comply with the ongoing conditions for maintaining such listing or quotation. If public trading in our shares resumes, the market price may be volatile, and an investment in our shares could suffer a decline in value. Prior to the deregistration of our ordinary shares in April 2006, the trading price of our ordinary shares was subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, some of which were beyond our control, including quarterly variations in our operating results, announcements by us or our competitors of new products or of significant clinical achievements, changes in market valuations of other similar companies in our industry and general market conditions. If public trading in our ordinary shares resumes, they could again be subject to wide fluctuations in response to similar factors as in the past, and they may also experience an imbalance between supply and demand resulting from low trading volumes. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme volatility in the last few years that has often been unrelated to the performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations could have a significant impact on the market price of our ordinary shares regardless of our performance. 21 We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company and, as a result, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences. Generally, if (taking into account certain look-through rules with respect to the income and assets of our subsidiaries) for any taxable year 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or at least 50% of our assets are held for the production of, or produce, passive income, we would be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, to which we refer as PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Such a characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to our U.S. shareholders, including having gains realized on the sale of our shares be treated as ordinary income, as opposed to capital gain, and having potentially punitive interest charges apply to such sale proceeds. A decline in the value of our ordinary shares may result in our becoming a PFIC. U.S. shareholders should consult with their own U.S. tax advisors with respect to the U.S. tax consequences of investing in our ordinary shares. Based upon our calculations, we believe that we were not a PFIC in 2011. However, PFIC status is determined as of the end of the taxable year and depends on a number of factors, including the value of a corporation’s assets and the amount and type of its gross income. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we will not become a PFIC for fiscal year 2012 or in any future year. 