ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In this report we make, and from time-to-time we otherwise make, written and oral statements regarding our business and prospects, such as projections of future performance, statements of management’s plans and objectives, forecasts of market trends, and other matters that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Statements containing the words or phrases “will likely result,” “are expected to,” “will continue,” “is anticipated,” “estimates,” “projects,” “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “target,” “goal,” “plans,” “objective,” “should” or similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which may appear in documents, reports, filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, news releases, written or oral presentations made by officers or other representatives made by us to analysts, stockholders, investors, news organizations and others, and discussions with management and other of our representatives. For such statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our future results, including results related to forward-looking statements, involve a number of risks and uncertainties. No assurance can be given that the results reflected in any forward-looking statements will be achieved. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made. Our forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions that are sometimes based upon estimates, data, communications and other information from suppliers, government agencies and other sources that may be subject to revision. Except as required by law, we do not undertake any obligation to update or keep current either (i) any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances arising after the date of such statement, or (ii) the important factors that could cause our future results to differ materially from historical results or trends, results anticipated or planned by us, or which are reflected from time to time in any forward-looking statement. In addition to other matters identified or described by us from time to time in filings with the SEC, there are several important factors that could cause our future results to differ materially from historical results or trends, results anticipated or planned by us, or results that are reflected from time to time in any forward-looking statement. Some of these important factors, but not necessarily all important factors, include those set out below. We have a history of significant operating losses and anticipate continued operating losses for at least the near term. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, we have incurred net losses of $26,955,196 and $234,598,580, respectively, and our operations have used $30,096,613 and $11,601,905 of cash, respectively. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $354,511,609. We expect to continue to experience negative cash flows from operations until such time as we are able to substantially increase revenues and control expenses to levels that will allow us to operate on a positive cash flow basis. While management will endeavor to generate positive cash flows from our placement of electronic gaming machines in Asia, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in generating positive cash flows from operations. The termination of the Product Participation Agreement with Elixir Group represents a material change in our business model, and that business model has not been proven by us. On November 6, 2008, we terminated the Product Participation Agreement with Elixir Group and consequently Elixir Group ceased to have rights to identify suitable gaming venues on our behalf and to supply us with electronic gaming machines and related equipment. We believe we have developed the operational experience and have established the market presences and key relationships necessary to assume all of Elixir Group’s previous responsibilities to identify and develop new gaming venues and to 13 Table of Contents acquire and install the gaming machines, casino management systems and other gaming peripherals directly from the manufacturers on competitive terms. However, no assurance can be made that we will be successfully fulfilling these functions on our own. Our revenues from our gaming machine participation operations are difficult to predict and may vary from our projections because the business model is new and the venues are not operated by us. Our primary focus now is on the ownership and leasing of gaming machines on a revenue sharing basis across certain countries in Asia. We focus on targeting venue owners in underserved gaming markets who have little or no gaming operations or experience. Since we participate on a revenue sharing basis with these venue owners, our revenue generated from the revenue sharing arrangements will be dependent to a significant degree on the efforts and capabilities of the venue owners. Our revenues and results of operations from our gaming machine participation may be difficult to predict and may vary depending on the ability of the venue owners to manage the gaming operations of their venues. Accordingly, there can be no guarantee that the venue owners will be able to manage the gaming operations successfully or that the gaming venues operated by them will perform at levels consistent with our financial projections and underlying forecasts and assumptions. Further, we have very limited past business relationships with the venue operators and assume that the venue operators are reputable. In the event that any of the venue operators are not reputable this would expose us to the risk of being unable to collect the revenue to which we are entitled under the revenue share arrangements and protect our gaming machine assets. We will require additional funding in the future to continue to operate our business. As of December 31, 2008 we had working capital of approximately $7.6 million. Since December 31, 2008, our working capital has been negatively effected by continuing losses from operations and positively effected by our sale of our card shuffler and Deckchecker products line for $2.4 million of cash, with a possible additional $400,000 based on a final inventory evaluation. We believe we have sufficient cash on hand to fulfill all current obligations as they become due. Based on our internal revenue projections, existing contemplated machine placement rollout plans, our inventory of electronic gaming machines, and strategic relationships with third-party manufacturers, we believe we have the needed capital to fund our operations over the next 12 months. However, if our revenue projections fail to meet our existing internal projections, we are required to procure additional gaming machines for projects not currently contemplated, and/or we are unable to come to agreeable terms with strategic third parties that we anticipate will provide us access to electronic gaming machines on attractive terms, we would need to raise capital within the next 12 months. We will endeavor to raise additional funds through various financing sources, including the sale of our equity and debt securities and the procurement of commercial debt financing, whether through Elixir Group or other parties with a bias toward debt financing over equity raisings. However, there can be no guarantees that such funds will be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If such financing is not available on satisfactory terms, we may be unable to expand or continue our business as desired and operating results may be adversely affected. Any debt financing will increase expenses and must be repaid regardless of operating results and may involve restrictions limiting our operating flexibility. If we issue equity securities to raise additional funds, the following results can occur: · the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders will be reduced; · our stockholders may experience additional dilution in net book value per share; and/or · the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock. We rely on third party distributors or agents in all our markets and our limited sales experience in foreign countries could cause us to lose sales. All sales of our products are achieved through third party distributors or agents, including but not limited to the sale of our automotive products through automotive organizations and institutions. We believe such distributors and agents that we have engaged are 14 Table of Contents experienced and reputable, however, if we are unable to manage these relationships, our ability to generate revenue and profits may be adversely affected. Our growth into markets outside the United States exposes us to risks inherent in international business operations. We intend to market our gaming machine participation business and sell our remaining line (excluding the portfolio of automated card verification machines and electronic card shuffling systems which we have sold to Shuffle Master pursuant to the Purchase and Settlement Agreement) of table game products outside the United States. We intend to focus our sales efforts in Asia, but our international expansion efforts may not be successful. Our international operations expose us to risks and challenges that we would otherwise not face if we conducted our business only in the United States, such as: · increased cost of enforcing our intellectual property rights; · heightened price sensitivity from customers in emerging markets; · our ability to establish local manufacturing, support and service functions, and to form channel relationships with resellers in non-U.S. markets; · localization of our electronic gaming machines and components, including translation into foreign languages and the associated expenses; · compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations; · foreign currency fluctuations; · laws favoring local competitors; · weaker legal protections of contract terms, enforce recoveries of receivables and intellectual property rights and mechanisms for enforcing those rights; · market disruptions created by public health crises in regions outside the U.S., such as Avian flu, SARS and other diseases; · difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, including challenges presented by relationships with workers’ councils and labor unions; and · changing regional economic, political and regulatory conditions. We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights. Our success in businesses other than gaming machine participation is impacted by maintaining the confidentiality and proprietary nature of our intellectual property rights. Our ability to compete may be damaged, and our revenues may be reduced if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights adequately. To protect these rights, we rely principally on a combination of: · contractual arrangements providing for non-disclosure and prohibitions on use; · patents and pending patent applications; · trade secret, copyright and trademark laws; and · certain built-in technical product features. Patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark laws provide limited protection. The protections provided by laws governing intellectual property rights do not prevent our competitors from developing, independently, products similar or superior to our products and technologies. In addition, effective protection of copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks, and other proprietary rights may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries. We may be unaware of certain non-publicly available patent applications, which, if issued as patents, could relate to our services and products as currently designed or 15 Table of Contents as we may modify them in the future. Legal or regulatory proceedings to enforce our patents, trademarks or copyrights could be costly, time consuming, and could divert the attention of management and technical personnel. It is possible that our products, excluding our gaming machine participation business, will be the subject of future patent litigation if the products are sold and installed in the United States and, if commenced, could subject us to continuing litigation costs and risks. To the extent that we introduce new products that incorporate the same or similar technology, it is likely that a competitor will bring one or more claims against us seeking damages, injunctive or other equitable relief, or both. We cannot predict the outcome of any present or future litigation that may occur. If our future products incorporate technologies that infringe the proprietary rights of third parties and we do not secure licenses from them, we could be liable for substantial damages that would cause a material reduction in revenues and impair our prospects for achieving growth and profitability. In furtherance of the development of our services or products, we may need to acquire licenses for intellectual property to avoid infringement of third party rights or claims of infringement. These licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Claims for infringement, if made, could damage our business prospects, our results of operations and financial condition, whether or not the claims have merit, by: · consuming substantial time and financial resources required to defend against them; · diverting the attention of management from growing our business and managing operations; · resulting in costly litigation; and · disrupting product sales and shipments. If any third party prevails in an action against us for infringement of its proprietary rights, we could be required to pay damages and either enter into costly licensing arrangements or redesign our products so as to exclude the infringing technology. As a result, we would incur substantial costs and delays in product development, sales and shipments, our revenues may decline substantially and we may not be able to achieve the growth required for us to achieve profitability. Our common stock may be delisted from the NYSE Amex and if this occurs you may have difficulty converting your investment into cash efficiently. The NYSE Amex (formerly known as the American Stock Exchange) has established certain standards for the delisting of a security from the NYSE Amex. The standards for delisting from the stock market include, among other things, common stock selling for a substantial period of time at a low price per share, if the issuer fails to effect a reverse split of such shares within a reasonable time after being notified that the stock exchange deems such action to be 16 Table of Contents appropriate. Our common stock has continuously traded below $1.00 since August 2008. While we have not received any communication to date from the NYSE Amex concerning the selling price of our common shares, there can be no assurance that the NYSE Amex will take action to delist our common stock from the exchange due to the low selling price of the shares. If that were to occur, we would consider effecting a reverse split of our common stock in order to raise our share price to a level satisfactory to the NYSE Amex. However, reverse splits of thinly traded shares have, at times, resulted in declining share price after a proportional adjustment in shares price to give effect to the split. If our common stock were to be excluded from NYSE Amex, or if we elected to conduct a reverse split in order to maintain the listing, the price of our common stock and the ability of holders to sell such stock could be materially adversely affected. Our board of directors may issue blank check preferred stock, which may affect the voting rights of our holders and could deter or delay an attempt to obtain control of us. Our board of directors is authorized, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock in series and to fix and state the voting rights and powers, designation, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights of the shares of each such series and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof. Preferred stock may rank prior to our common stock with respect to dividends rights, liquidation preferences, or both, and may have full or limited voting rights. Accordingly, issuance of shares of preferred stock could adversely affect the voting power of holders of our common stock and could have the effect of deterring or delaying an attempt to obtain control of us. The global recession has negatively impacted the demand for automobiles, which in turn could make it difficult to collect on accounts receivables from our Dolphin subsidiary customers. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, we have incurred net account receivables of $535,983 and $1,180,915 respectively, from the automotive segment of our Dolphin subsidiary. Due to the global recession and subsequent reduced demand for automobiles, many auto manufacturers, which include some of our Dolphin subsidiary’s customers, are experiencing financial and operating difficulties. These difficulties could impact our customers’ ability to pay us and our ability to collect on receivables due from these customers. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and cannot assure you that additional material weakness will not be identified in the future. Our failure to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in material misstatement in our financial statements. In connection with management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for the period covered by this report, management has identified four material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and concluded as of December 31, 2008, our internal control over financial reporting was not effective. Despite our efforts to ensure the integrity of our financial reporting process, we cannot assure you that additional material weakness of significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. See “Item 9A(T) – Controls and Procedures”. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 