D. Risk factors. Risks of Exploration and Development The Company, and thus the securities of the Company, should be considered a highly speculative investment and investors should carefully consider all of the information disclosed in this Annual Report prior to making an investment in the Company. In addition to the other information presented in this Annual Report, the following risk factors should be given special consideration when evaluating an investment in any of the Company's securities. 2 (a) The Company's limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate the Company's current business and forecast future results. The Company has only a limited operating history on which to base an evaluation of the Company's current business and prospects, each of which should be considered in light of the risks, expenses and problems frequently encountered in the early stages of development of all companies. This limited operating history leads the Company to believe that period-to-period comparisons of its operating results may not be meaningful and that the results for any particular period should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. (b) Speculative business Resource exploration and development is a speculative business, characterized by a number of significant risks including, among other things, unprofitable efforts resulting not only from the failure to discover mineral deposits but from finding mineral deposits which, though present, are insufficient in quantity and quality to return a profit from production. Diamonds acquired or discovered by the Company may be required to be sold to The Diamond Trading Co., a wholly-owned subsidiary of De Beers, as per the Gahcho Kué Joint Venture Agreement (see “Item 4D - Property, plant and equipment - Principal Properties - The AK Property”), at a price which is reflective of the market at that time. (c) The Company has no significant source of operating cash flow and failure to generate revenues in the future could cause the Company to go out of business. The Company currently has no significant source of operating cash flow. The Company has limited financial resources. The Company's ability to achieve and maintain profitability and positive cash flow is dependent upon the Company's ability to generate revenues. (d) Exploration and Development The Company's properties are primarily in the advanced exploration and permitting stage. Drilling of the 5034 and Hearne kimberlite pipes has been extensive, however, a limited amount of drilling has been conducted at the Tuzo and Telsa kimberlite pipes. There are no estimates of reserves. Estimates of mineral deposits, development plans and production costs, when made, can be affected by such factors as environmental permit regulations and requirements, weather, environmental factors, unforeseen technical difficulties, unusual or unexpected geological formations and work interruptions. In addition, the grade of diamonds ultimately discovered may differ from that indicated by bulk sampling results. Mine plans and processing concepts developed under the scoping and pre-feasibility studies are preliminary in nature. The estimated capital and operating costs developed under scoping and pre-feasibility studies are also preliminary in nature. Historically, pre-feasibility studies have tended to underestimate capital and operating costs. (e) Process Testing Process testing is limited to small scale testing based on a number of laboratory test programs, trade-off studies and design evaluations conducted in 2002 and 2004. Ore dressing study technical investigations were performed on kimberlite from the 5034 and Hearne pipes. A database of operating information developed during the 1999/2000 bulk sample processing of 2,000 tonnes of kimberlite was used to supplement the ore dressing study data. Limited processing data is available for the Tuzo and Telsa kimberlites. Process plant studies were conducted during the course of 2005. There can be no assurance that diamonds recovered in small scale tests will be duplicated in large scale tests under on-site conditions or in production scale. Difficulties may be experienced in obtaining the expected diamond recoveries when scaling up to a production scale process plant. (f) Project Funding De Beers Canada is now paying for all exploration of the AK Property, and can be called on to pay all development costs of the AK Property and, with regard to that property, there is currently no risk to the Company in respect of the further exploration, permitting and development costs. Any separate and additional exploration done by the Company on its other properties may not result in discovery of any diamondiferous kimberlite. 3 (g) History of Losses or Earnings The Company has a history of losses and may continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. During the years ended March 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the Company incurred net losses or earnings during each of the following periods: • $1.961 million net loss for the year ended March 31, 2007. • $2.200 million net loss for the year ended March 31, 2006. • $1.531 million net earnings for the year ended March 31, 2005 (relating primarily to gain on sale of the Haveri project to Northern Lion Gold Corp.). As of March 31, 2007, the Company had an accumulated deficit of $26.1 million. There can be no assurance that the Company will ever be profitable. None of the Company's properties have advanced to the commercial production stage, and the Company has no history of earnings or cash flow from operations and, as an exploration company, has only a history of losses. The Company has paid no dividends on its shares since incorporation and does not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. (h) Recoverability of capitalized mineral property costs The recoverability of the amounts capitalized for mineral properties in the Company's consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance with Canadian generally accepted accounting principles, is dependent upon the ability of the Company to complete exploration and development, the discovery of economically recoverable reserves, and, if warranted, upon future profitable production or proceeds from disposition of some or all of the Company's mineral properties. (i) Additional Funding Requirements As of March 31, 2007, the Company had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $0.180 million and working capital of approximately $0.180 million. During the past three fiscal years ended March 31, 2007, the Company has used approximately $2.563 million in cash flows in operating activities including approximately $0.978 million during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007, $0.727 million during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006 and $0.858 million during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005. The Company's administrative and other expenses are expected to be approximately $1.0 million for the next year. The Company does not have sufficient working capital for administrative purposes for the next year, but intends to raise capital to finance its operations for the next two years or more through either the sale or partial sale of its investment in Northern Lion, and/or through the private placement of shares. The Company also has access to cash and other liquid investments held by Camphor. The Company may be required to raise additional capital through equity and/or debt financings on terms that may be dilutive to its shareholders' interests in the Company and to the value of their common shares. The Company may consider debt financing, joint ventures, production sharing arrangements, disposing of properties or other arrangements to meet its capital requirements in the future. Such arrangements may have a material adverse affect on the Company's business or results of operations. (j) No Proven Reserves The properties in which the Company has an interest are all in the advanced exploratory and permitting stage and at this point, there are only indicated and inferred resources in four kimberlite bodies in Kennady Lake. See “Item 4D - Property, plants and equipment - Principal Properties”. The Company has not yet determined whether its mineral properties contain mineral reserves that are economically recoverable. Failure to discover economically recoverable reserves will require the Company to write-off costs capitalized in its financial statements. 4 (k) Title Matters While the Company has investigated title to all of its mineral properties and, to the best of its knowledge, title to all of its properties and properties in which it has the right to acquire or earn an interest are in good standing, this should not be construed as a guarantee of title. The properties may be subject to prior unregistered agreements or transfers and title may be affected by undetected defects. (l) Diamond Prices The market for rough diamonds is subject to strong influence from the world's largest diamond producing company, De Beers, of South Africa, and from The Diamond Trading Co., (formerly known as the Central Selling Organization), a marketing agency controlled by De Beers. The price of diamonds dropped sharply after September 11, 2001 and has now recovered, but future prices cannot be predicted. Over the past three years, diamond prices have increased on average by approximately 15%. Current trends suggest an over demand for rough diamonds in the near to mid-term. (m) Compliance with Environmental and Government Regulation The current and anticipated future operations of the Company, including development activities and commencement of production on its properties, require permits from various federal, territorial and local governmental authorities and such operations are and will be governed by laws and regulations governing prospecting, development, mining, production, exports, taxes, labour standards, occupational health, waste disposal, toxic substances, land use, environmental protection, mine safety and other matters. Companies engaged in the development and operation of mines and related facilities generally experience increased costs, and delays in production and other schedules as a result of the need to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permits. The Company's exploration activities and its potential mining and processing operations in Canada are subject to various Canadian Federal and Territorial laws governing land use, the protection of the environment, prospecting, development, production, exports, taxes, labour standards, occupational health, waste disposal, toxic substances, mine safety and other matters. Such operations and exploration activities are also subject to substantial regulation under these laws by governmental agencies and may require that the Company obtain permits from various governmental agencies. The Company believes it is in substantial compliance with all material laws and regulations which currently apply to its activities. There can be no assurance, however, that all permits which the Company may require for construction of mining facilities and conduct of mining operations will be obtainable on reasonable terms or that such laws and regulations, or that new legislation or modifications to existing legislation, would not have an adverse effect on any exploration or mining project which the Company might undertake. Further detail on governmental regulation may be found in Item 4 - Business Review - Government Regulation, below. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permit requirements may result in enforcement actions thereunder, including orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities causing operations to cease or be curtailed, and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment or remedial actions. Parties engaged in mining operations may be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage by reason of the mining activities and may have civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed for violation of applicable laws or regulations. The amount of funds required to comply with all environmental regulations and to pay for compensation in the event of a breach of such laws may exceed the Company's ability to pay such amount. Amendments to current laws, regulations and permits governing operations and activities of mining companies, or more stringent implementation thereof, could have a material adverse impact on the Company and cause increases in capital expenditures or production costs or reduction in levels of production at producing properties or require abandonment or delays in development of new mining properties. 5 (n) Climate and Transportation The AK Property is subject to climate and transportation risks because of its remote northern location. Such factors can add to the cost of exploration, development and operation, thereby affecting costs and profitability. (o) Joint Venture Partner The Company, and the success of the AK Property, is dependent on the efforts, expertise and capital resources of joint venture partner De Beers Canada and its parent De Beers. De Beers Canada is the project operator and is responsible for exploring, permitting, developing and operating the AK Property. The Company is dependent on De Beers Canada for accurate information about the AK Property and the proper and timely progress of exploration, permitting and development. De Beers Canada and the Company agreed on March 8, 2000 that it was unlikely that the agreed upon rate of return would be achieved from mining the 5034, Hearne and Tuzo pipes using the conventional open pit method. As a result, the Company and De Beers Canada agreed that De Beers would conduct a desktop study examining the costs of both open-pit and underground mining scenarios. The results of the desktop study were presented on August 4, 2000 to the board of directors of the Company. The study showed that the modeled rate of return for the mining of the three main diamond pipes was below the agreed upon rate of return needed to proceed to the next phase, but sufficiently close to only require an increase in diamond revenues of approximately 15% to achieve the agreed upon rate. A management committee was constituted and it was decided that the best options to advance the project were an additional bulk sample and additional exploration. The bulk sample was completed in May 2001 and the exploration in June 2001. The final results were reported on December 18, 2001 and were encouraging enough for De Beers to commit to another bulk sample in the winter of 2002. The results of the 2002 bulk sample program of the Hearne and 5034 pipes were reported in April 2003 and the results of the updated desk top study two weeks later. Even though the study showed that estimated capital costs had increased only slightly and that the estimated operating costs had dropped significantly, the effect of lower diamond values (especially for the Hearne pipe) and a lower US dollar against the Canadian dollar since the 2000 desktop study, had resulted in an internal rate of return (IRR), which was well below the agreed hurdle rate. Combined with the then current geo-political environment and uncertainties, De Beers decided to postpone a pre-feasibility decision until the following year when the desktop study would be updated again. In the meantime, De Beers would continue with exploration in the Kelvin-Faraday area with an objective of adding to the existing resource. However, at the end of July 2003, De Beers notified the Company that they had started work on a detailed cost estimate of a pre-feasibility study of the Gahcho Kué Project. They based their decision on the improving geo-political and economic conditions which supported confidence in longer-term diamond price projections. In November 2003, the Joint Venture approved a budget of approximately $25 million for a pre-feasibility study, which started in January 2004. The first phase of the study was completed in June 2004. The pre-feasibility study was completed in mid-2005. The projected profitability levels were sufficiently encouraging to support the Joint Venture’s decision to proceed to the next phase of permitting and advanced exploration to improve the resource confidence and input data for mine design to support a definitive feasibility study. On July 11, 2005, De Beers reported an increase in the modeled value of the diamonds for the Gahcho Kué project with the modeled values increasing by approximately 6, 7 and 8 percent for the Tuzo, Hearne and 5034 pipes respectively. The table below summarizes the 2005 Gahcho Kué Resource Statement. Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors concerning estimates of Indicated and Inferred Resources. This section uses the terms "indicated" and "inferred resources." We advise U.S. investors that while those terms are recognized and required by Canadian regulations, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission does not recognize them. "Inferred resources" have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence, and great uncertainty as to their economic and legal feasibility. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of an Inferred Mineral Resource will ever be upgraded to a higher category. Under Canadian rules, estimates of Inferred Mineral Resources may not form the basis of feasibility or pre-feasibility studies, except in rare cases. 6 U.S. investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of mineral deposits in these categories will ever be converted into reserves. U.S. investors are cautioned not to assume that part or all of an inferred resource exists, or is economically or legally minable. 2005 GAHCHO KUÉ RESOURCE STATEMENT Pipe Resource Category Tonnes Carats Grade (cpht)(1) 5034 Indicated Inferred 8,715,000 4,921,000 13,943,000 8,366,000 160 170 Hearne Indicated Inferred 5,678,000 1,546,000 9,676,000 2,373,000 170 153 Tuzo Inferred 10,550,000 12,152,000 115 Summary Indicated Inferred 14,392,000 17,017,000 23,619,000 22,890,000 164 135 (1) Resource cutoff is 1.5 mm On July 25, 2005, the Joint Venture announced the Joint Venture Management Committee had approved a budget of $38.5 million for the environmental assessment and permitting process and for an advanced exploration program. On November 29, 2005, it was announced that the Joint Venture had submitted an application with the Mackenzie Valley Land and Water Board for permits required to construct and operate a diamond mine at Gahcho Kué. The permit applications were submitted to the Mackenzie Valley Environmental Impact Review Board for an Environmental Assessment (EA). The Review Board ordered the Gahcho Kué application to an Environmental Impact Review (EIR) in June 2006. Out of concern that the Review Board may have exceeded its authority in referring the Gahcho Kué application to EIR prior to conclusive completion of the EA, De Beers took the Review Board’s decision to judicial review in the Supreme Court on the Northwest Territories. On April 2, 2007 the Supreme Court ruled that the Review Board had acted within its authority and upheld the decision to refer the application to EIR. On January 12, 2006, the Joint Venture announced details of the advanced exploration program which commenced in February 2006 and was projected to be completed by May 2006. Inadequacies on the part of the casing drill contractor resulted in the failure of the 2006 bulk sampling programs at Tuzo and the 5034 North Lobe. The 2006 core drilling program was successful and laid the groundwork for an extended core drilling program at Tuzo during the summer of 2006. The 2006 core drilling program confirmed the presence of flaring of the Tuzo kimberlite to depth. The program also confirmed the presence of kimberlite between the 5034 South Lobe and the Wallace Anomaly and also between the 5034 South Lobe and the 5034 West Lobe. On December 19, 2006, the Joint Venture announced the details of a $30 million 2007 work program designed to conduct extensive core drilling over the Tuzo kimberlite pipe; complete a review of the 2005 pre-feasibility study; and advance the permitting for the Gahcho Kue project. (p) Operating Hazards and Risks Diamond exploration involves many risks which even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. Operations in which the Company has a direct or indirect interest will be subject to all the hazards and risks normally incidental to exploration, development and production of resources, any of which could result in work stoppages, damage to property and possible environmental damage. The Company maintains insurance policies relating to directors and officers liability, but can give no guarantees that such insurance will be sufficient to protect the Company from losses. 7 (q) Numerous factors beyond the control of the Company affect the marketability of any diamonds discovered. Factors beyond the control of the Company may affect the marketability of any diamonds produced. Significant price movements over short periods of time may be affected by numerous factors beyond the control of the Company, including international economic and political trends, expectations of inflation, currency exchange fluctuations (specifically, the U.S. dollar relative to the Canadian dollar and other currencies), interest rates and global or regional consumption patterns. The effect of these factors on the prices of diamonds and therefore the economic viability of any of the Company's projects cannot accurately be predicted. (r) The Company's expectations reflected in forward looking statements may prove to be incorrect. This Form 20-F includes "forward looking statements" A shareholder or prospective shareholder should bear this in mind when assessing the Company's business. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, included in this annual report, including, without limitation, the statements under and located elsewhere herein regarding industry prospects and the Company's financial position are forward-looking statements. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in such forward looking statements are reasonable, such expectations may prove to be incorrect. (s) Competition The resource industry is intensely competitive in all of its phases, and the Company competes with many companies possessing greater financial resources and technical facilities. Competition could adversely affect the Company's ability to acquire suitable producing properties or prospects for exploration in the future. The Company may be required under the Gahcho Kué Joint Venture Agreement (see “Item 4B - Information on the Company - Business Overview”) to sell its rough diamonds at a price that is reflective of the market price, to The Diamond Trading Co., a wholly-owned subsidiary of De Beers, which controls approximately 50% of the diamond market. There may therefore be no competition for diamonds produced from the Company's properties. The Company only competes in the acquisition of new properties. (t) Financing Risks The Company's current operations do not generate any cash flow. If the Company seeks additional equity financing, the issuance of additional shares will dilute the interests of the Company's current shareholders. The amount of the dilution would depend on the number of new shares issued and the price at which they are issued. The Company has successfully raised funds in recent years through share, option and warrant issuances. As at June 22, 2007, the Company had approximately $0.3 million in cash, including cash that it can access through its subsidiary, Camphor, and the Company intends to raise capital to finance its operations for the next two years or more through either the sale or partial sale of its investment in Northern Lion, and/or through the private placement of shares. (u) Dilution from Outstanding Securities As at June 28, 2007, there were 608,850 options at exercise prices ranging from $0.56 to $4.50 (expiring at various dates), and no warrants outstanding. Of these, 198,850 options were issued in exchange for stock options of Camphor Ventures tendered to complete the acquisition of Camphor. The stock options, if fully exercised, would increase the number of shares outstanding by 608,850. Such options, if fully exercised, would constitute approximately 1% (out of 60,332,381 shares (59,723,531 issued and outstanding, plus total options) respectively) of the Company's resulting share capital as at June 28, 2007. It is unlikely that options would be exercised unless the market price of the Company's common shares exceeds the exercise price at the date of exercise. The exercise of such options and the subsequent resale of such Common shares in the public market could adversely affect the prevailing market price and the Company's ability to raise equity capital in the future at a time and price which it deems appropriate. The Company may also enter into commitments in the future which would require the issuance of additional common shares and the Company may grant new share purchase warrants and stock options. Any share issuances from the Company's treasury will result in immediate dilution to existing shareholders. 8 (v) Conflicts of Interest At the present time, except to the extent that Patrick Evans and Jennifer Dawson have Consulting Agreements with the Company (see “Item 6C - Board Practices”), none of the officers and directors are in a position of conflict of interest. However, certain officers and directors of the Company are associated with other natural resource companies that acquire interests in mineral properties. Such associations may give rise to conflicts of interest from time to time. The directors of the Company are required by law to act honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interest of the Company and to disclose any interest which they may have in any project or opportunity of the Company. If a conflict of interest arises at a meeting of the board of directors, any director in a conflict is required to disclose his interest and abstain from voting on such matter. In determining whether or not the Company will participate in any project or opportunity, the director will primarily consider the degree of risk to which the Company may be exposed and its financial position at that time. (w) Dependence on Key Management Employees The nature of the Company's business, its ability to continue its exploration and development activities and to thereby develop a competitive edge in its marketplace depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and maintain qualified key management personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to attract and retain such personnel. The Company's development to date has depended, and in the future will continue to depend, on the efforts of Patrick Evans. See “Item 7B -Related party transactions”, “Item 6C - Board Practices”, and “Item 10C- Material Contracts”. Loss of the key person could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company does not maintain key-man life insurance on Patrick Evans. (x) Fluctuations in Company Stock Prices Prices for the Company's shares on the TSX and on the Amex, have been extremely volatile. The price for the Company's common shares on the TSX ranged from $3.05 (low) and $5.05 (high) during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007, and from $2.15 (low) to $4.96 (high) during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006. The price on the Amex ranged from $2.70 US (low) and $4.40 US (high) during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007, and from $1.70 US (low) to $4.26 US (high) during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006. Any investment in the Company's securities is therefore subject to considerable fluctuations in value. (w) Currency Rate Fluctuations Feasibility and other studies conducted to evaluate the Company's properties are denominated in U.S. dollars, and the Company conducts a significant portion of its operations and incurs a significant portion of its administrative and operating costs in Canadian dollars. The exchange rate for converting U.S. dollars into Canadian dollars has fluctuated in recent years. Accordingly, the Company is subject to fluctuations in the rates of currency exchange between the U.S. dollar and the Canadian dollar, and these fluctuations in the rates of currency exchange may materially affect the Company's financial position, results of operations and timing of the development of its properties. (y) The Mineral resources industry is intensely competitive and the Company competes with many companies that have greater financial means and technical facilities. The mineral resources industry is intensely competitive and the Company competes with many companies that have greater financial means and technical facilities. Significant competition exists for the limited number of mineral acquisition opportunities available. As a result of this competition, the Company's ability to acquire additional attractive mining properties, should it decide to do so in the future, on terms it considers acceptable, may be adversely affected. 9 (z) De Beers Support The exploration of the AK Property has been primarily funded by De Beers, and De Beers Canada has made an equity investment in the Company. However, there is no assurance that the level of support provided by De Beers will continue in the future. General As the Company is a Canadian company, it may be difficult for U.S. shareholders of the Company to effect service of process on the Company or to realize on judgments obtained against the Company in the United States. Some of its directors and officers are residents of Canada and a significant part of its assets are, or will be, located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for shareholders resident in the United States to effect service of process within the United States upon the Company, directors, officers or experts who are not residents of the United States, or to realize in the United States judgments of courts of the United States predicated upon civil liability of any of the Company, directors or officers under the United States federal securities laws. If a judgment is obtained in the U.S. courts based on civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against the Company or its directors or officers it will be difficult to enforce the judgment in the Canadian courts against the Company and any of the Company's non-U.S. resident executive officers or directors. Accordingly, United States shareholders may be forced to bring actions against the Company and its respective directors and officers under Canadian law and in Canadian courts in order to enforce any claims that they may have against the Company or its directors and officers. Subject to necessary registration, as an extra provincial company, under applicable provincial corporate statutes in the case of a corporate shareholder, Canadian courts do not restrict the ability of non-resident persons to sue in their courts. Nevertheless it may be difficult for United States shareholders to bring an original action in the Canadian courts to enforce liabilities based on the U.S. federal securities laws against the Company and any of the Company's Canadian executive officers or directors. Item 