D. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information in this annual report on Form 20-F. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operations. If any of these risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer and the price of our shares could decline. 7 Risks Related to our Business and Financial Condition The markets in which we operate are competitive, and we may not be able to compete with current or future competitors. The markets in which we operate are competitive and we expect such competition to increase. Competition arises from laser and other light-based products, as well as from other treatment modalities and alternate technologies that are not based upon laser or light-based technologies. We also face competition from companies selling accessories to, and offering services for, our products, as well as companies selling devices, particularly in the aesthetic market, for home use. Competitors range in size from small, single product companies to large, multinational corporations. Many of our competitors enjoy competitive advantages over us, including: · greater financial, technical, marketing, human and other resources; · greater name recognition and/or longer operating histories, particularly within certain geographies or business segments; · broader product lines, which may provide the ability to offer rebates or bundle products and thereby offer discounts; · larger customer bases and more extensive or exclusive relationships with healthcare professionals, customers and third-party payors; · greater experience in conducting research and development, manufacturing, preparing regulatory submissions and obtaining regulatory clearance or approval for products and marketing approved products; · greater resources for the development, promotion, sale and support of products; · greater breadth, maturity and strength of patent protection; and · location in countries with low-cost economies that are conducive to inexpensive manufacturing. In the surgical segment, our major direct competitors are: American Medical Systems, Deka Laser Technologies, Dornier MedTech America, Karl Storz, Lisa Laser Products and OmniGuide. Our major direct competitors in the aesthetic segment are Alma Lasers, Cutera, Cynosure, Solta Medical and Syneron. Our major direct competitors in the ophthalmic segment are Carl Zeiss Meditec, Ellex, Iridex, Nidek and Quantel Medical. The degree of competition is amplified in part as a result of the low barriers to entry especially with respect to less sophisticated products in the aesthetic industry. This has led to us having a greater number of small competitors, particularly in the aesthetic industry. Competition has in the past, and may in the future, result in pricing pressures, reduced sales and gross margins, loss of market share or a failure to grow our market share in existing segments and geographic markets. The introduction of disruptive technological breakthroughs, whether pharmaceutical or other newer therapeutic solutions, may present an additional threat to our success in our target markets. Pharmaceutical alternative treatments compete vigorously with traditional laser procedures, such as those carried out with our products, particularly in the ophthalmic segment. Some pharmaceutical companies, academic and research institutions, or others, may develop new, noninvasive therapies that are more effective, more convenient or less expensive than our current or future products. The introduction of new technologies, along with these new therapies could result in increased competition. Any such developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Consolidation in our industries may make it more difficult for us to compete. The trend towards consolidation has increased, and may continue to increase, the intensity of the competition in our industries. Recently, competitors such as Cynosure and Solta Medical have acquired other companies that operate within the aesthetic market. Further, Valeant Pharmaceuticals has entered into an agreement to acquire Solta Medical. If this trend continues, we will be forced to compete primarily against larger competitors with greater resources and distribution networks. The acquisition of a competitor by a major corporation seeking to enter our markets has a similar effect, resulting in a competitor with substantially greater resources than ours. We cannot give assurances that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition or investment candidates, or, if we do identify suitable candidates, that we will be able to make the acquisitions or investments on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If consolidation in our industries advances further and we are unable to effect mergers or acquisitions of our own, our inability to obtain capital and other resources that are comparable to those possessed by our larger competitors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 8 Our customers’ willingness to purchase our products in the surgical and ophthalmic segments depends to a significant extent on their patients’ ability to obtain reimbursement for medical procedures that our products deliver. The customers for our medical products include doctors, clinics, hospitals and other healthcare providers whose willingness and ability to purchase our products depend in part upon their patients’ ability to obtain reimbursement for medical procedures that our products deliver from third-party payors, including private insurance companies, and, in the United States, from health maintenance organizations, or HMOs, and federal, state and local government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. This is particularly the case in the surgical and ophthalmic segments, in which almost all of the treatments performed with our products are currently reimbursable in most jurisdictions. Third-party payors have been increasingly scrutinizing health care costs submitted for reimbursement and may deny coverage and reimbursement for the medical procedures made possible by our products. Additionally, we cannot predict what legislation or regulation, if any, relating to the healthcare industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future, or what the effect of such legislation or regulation may have on us, if any. The inability of our customers’ patients to obtain adequate reimbursement from third-party payors for medical procedures that use our products, or changes in third-party coverage and reimbursement policies, could have a material adverse effect on our sales, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on third-party suppliers, and, in one case, a sole source supplier, for key components used in our products, subassemblies and systems. Certain key components used in our products, subassemblies and systems are manufactured or assembled by a limited number of suppliers or subcontractors and, in one case, are purchased by us from a single source. We do not have a long term supply agreement with this supplier. If we lose this supplier, certain of our sales may be temporarily disrupted until we replace the supplier. Components from any supplier may not be available in the future. Additionally, due to their sophisticated nature, certain components must be ordered more than six months in advance, resulting in substantial lead time for certain production runs. In the event that such limited source suppliers are unable to meet our requirements in a timely manner, we may experience an interruption in production until we can obtain an alternate source of supply. In order to mitigate this risk, we provide our suppliers with a purchasing plan and a three- to nine-month estimate of future orders. There are further risks associated with suppliers, even with regards to those products, subassemblies and systems that are provided by a number of suppliers, including, among other things: • if we experience an increase in demand for our products, our suppliers may be unable to provide us with the components that we need in order to meet that increased demand; • our suppliers may encounter financial hardships unrelated to our demand for components, which could inhibit their ability to fulfill our orders and meet our requirements; • suppliers may fail to comply with regulatory requirements, be subject to lengthy compliance, validation or qualification periods, or make errors in manufacturing components that could negatively affect the efficacy or safety of our products or cause delays in supplying of our products to our customers; • we may experience production delays related to the evaluation and testing of products from alternative suppliers and corresponding regulatory qualifications; • we may be subject to price fluctuations due to a lack of long-term supply arrangements for key components; • we or our suppliers may lose access to critical services and components, resulting in an interruption in the manufacture, assembly and shipment of our systems; and • fluctuations in demand for components that our suppliers manufacture for others may affect their ability or willingness to deliver components to us in a timely manner. If any of these risks materialize, the costs associated with developing alternative sources of supply or assembly could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet demand for our products. Our ability to generate revenues would be impaired, market acceptance of our products could be adversely affected, and customers may instead purchase or use alternative products. We may not be able to find new or alternative components or reconfigure our system and manufacturing processes in a timely manner if the necessary components become unavailable. As a result, we could incur increased production costs, experience delays in deliveries of our products, suffer damage to our reputation and experience an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 9 We may fail to accurately forecast component and material requirements for our products. Our customers and potential customers, particularly in our aesthetic segment, frequently require delivery of products within a relatively short timeframe. This is due to factors such as end-of-year tax benefits, budget considerations and the timing of business opportunities. Additionally, we manufacture certain of our products within a relatively short time frame, and in certain instances, we manufacture our products to be available “on the shelf” for immediate delivery. In order to meet such deadlines, we must accurately predict the demand for our products, the product mix and the lead times required to obtain the necessary components and materials. Lead times for components and materials that we order vary significantly and depend on various factors, including the specific supplier requirements, the size of the order, contract terms and current market demand for components. However, due to the sophisticated nature of the components, some of our suppliers may need six months or more lead time. If we overestimate our component and material requirements, we may have excess inventory, which has in the past and could in the future lead to inventory obsolescence, and may increase our costs, impair our available liquidity and have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We have recently been focused on reducing our inventory in order to reduce costs related to write-offs. If we underestimate our component and material requirements, we may have inadequate inventory, which could interrupt and delay delivery of our products to our customers, strain our relationship with our existing customers and damage our reputation. As a consequence, we may lose future sales to such customers or to potential customers. Any of these occurrences would negatively affect our revenues, business and operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our markets are characterized by evolving technological standards and changes in customer requirements, and we may not be able to react to such changes and introduce new product platforms in a timely manner. Our markets, in particular the aesthetic market, are characterized by extensive research and development, technological change, frequent modifications and enhancements, innovations, new applications, evolving industry standards and changes in customer requirements. In each of our segments, we are targeting the introduction of one to two new product platforms by the end of 2014. Our future growth depends in part on our ability to introduce these products on a timely basis, as well as to introduce other product enhancements that address customer needs. These goals require us to design, develop, manufacture, assemble, test, market and support these new platforms or enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis. It also requires continued substantial investment in research and development. Our research and development expenses, net were 8.4% of our total revenues in the year ended December 31, 2013. During each stage of the research and development process we encounter obstacles that may delay development and consequently increase our expenses. This may ultimately force us to abandon a potential product in which we have already invested substantial time and resources. Technologies in development could prove to be more complex than initially understood or not scientifically or commercially viable. Even if we develop new products and technologies ahead of our competitors, we will still need to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for such products, including from public agencies, such as the FDA, before we can commercially distribute them. We cannot assure you that we will successfully identify new technological opportunities, develop and bring new or enhanced products to market, obtain sufficient or any patent or other intellectual property protection for such new or enhanced products or obtain the necessary regulatory approvals in a timely and cost-effective manner, or, if such products are introduced, that those products will achieve market acceptance. Our failure to do so or to address the technological changes and challenges in our markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We require significant cash funds for our operations; we may need to raise additional funds in the future and may be unable to raise capital when needed or on acceptable terms. We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents, short-term investment balances and our portion of the net proceeds from the offering of our ordinary B shares which closed (in primary part) on March 4, 2014 and (with respect to the underwriters’ option to purchase additional ordinary B shares from certain selling shareholders) on March 26, 2014, to which we refer to as the offering, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements through at least the next 12 months. In particular, as we continue to expand the direct distribution of our products into new territories, our working capital requirements will increase. We currently plan to fund these expenditures with cash flow generated from our operating activities. To the extent our available cash, cash equivalents and short-term investment balances (including the proceeds from the offering) are insufficient to satisfy our day-to-day operating expenses, commitments, working capital, capital expenditure and debt payment requirements, as well as to fund growth, develop new products and services or make acquisitions or other investments, we may need to seek additional sources of funds. This may be done by selling additional equity or debt securities or entering into a credit facility. However, we may be unable to obtain additional financing at commercially reasonable terms or at all. Obtaining such financing will be subject to the consent of Bank Hapoalim B.M., or the Bank, pursuant to the bank debt restructuring agreement, dated as of September 29, 2006, between the Company and the Bank, as amended, or the Restructuring Agreement. As a result, we may be required to reduce the scope of, or delay or eliminate, some or all of our current and planned research, development and commercialization activities. We also may have to reduce marketing, customer service or other resources devoted to our products. Any of these actions could materially harm our business and results of operations. 10 Our indebtedness subjects us to significant debt service obligations and financial and other covenants. The total principal amount of our Bank debt as of December 31, 2013, which is governed by the Restructuring Agreement, was approximately $63.6 million. Pursuant to the Restructuring Agreement, we sought extensions of principal payment dates for our Bank debt. The interest rate payable on our Bank debt is LIBOR plus 5.25%. Until repayment of the Bank debt, we are subject to certain financial ratio covenants as described under the caption “Bank debt restructuring agreement — Financial Covenants” in “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects- Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Item 5 below. These financial covenants become more restrictive each year. We are also subject to certain other covenants including negative covenants that require us to refrain from certain transactions without the Bank’s consent. Our ability to make payments of principal and interest and to comply with the financial and other covenants under the Restructuring Agreement is subject to the risk factors described herein, and any failure to comply with the covenants could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and operations. Our substantial debt requires us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to debt service. This could impair our ability to obtain additional financing for capital expenditures or other purposes, could hinder our ability to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions and competitive pressures, and could make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business or deterioration of general economic conditions. We have granted the Bank security interests that include a floating charge on all of our assets, certain fixed charges over our assets and those of our subsidiaries (including intellectual property), certain pledges of the stock of our subsidiaries and certain subsidiary guarantees securing our debt. Therefore, a downturn in our business that causes a default by us under the Restructuring Agreement could have a material adverse effect on our company. Continued improvements in our overall profitability will be adversely affected if we are unable to continue improving our gross margins and our operating leverage. Our segment operating margins, which have increased in recent years, have done so primarily as a result of improvements in gross margins. To achieve these improvements, we have made considerable investments in reengineering of products in a manner that has reduced costs of products, as well as lowered service and warranty costs, due to increased emphasis on quality control, and more efficient management of our inventory levels, has resulted in lower inventory write downs over the past two years. In order to continue driving our overall profitability, we will need to continue to improve our gross margins with a particular focus on our ophthalmic and aesthetic segments. In order to achieve this we intend to, among other things, continue reducing costs of products and manufacturing by increasingly outsourcing manufacturing when doing so is expected to produce greater efficiencies. We will also continue to focus on execution and maximizing operating leverage. There can be no assurance that our actions to continue to improve our gross margins and operating leverage will be successful. If we are unable to achieve these goals, then our overall profitability and future prospects may be harmed. Due to the complex nature of some of our products we could be subject to product liability claims, including due to adverse treatment outcomes. Laser and IPL systems are inherently complex in design and require ongoing scheduled maintenance. Despite pre-market testing, our products may malfunction when used by our customers, due to their technical complexity. Furthermore, our products are sold in jurisdictions that vary in the specific qualifications or training required for purchasers or operators of the products. Although we provide product training to the purchasers or operators of our products, there is a risk that our products may be purchased or operated by physicians with varying levels of training, and in some cases, by practitioners such as nurses, chiropractors and technicians who may not be adequately trained. The purchase and use of our products by non-physicians or persons who lack adequate training may result in the misuse of our products, which could give rise to adverse treatment outcomes. If we are unable to prevent product malfunctions or misuse, or if we fail to do so in a timely manner, we could also experience, among other things, delays in the recognition of revenues or loss of revenues, particularly in the case of new products; legal actions by customers, patients and other third parties, which could result in substantial judgments or settlement costs; action by regulatory bodies; and diversion of development, engineering and management resources. 11 In addition, some of our products are combined with products from other vendors, which may contain defects. While our agreements with such other vendors generally provide for indemnification for us for liabilities arising from such defects, it may be difficult to identify the source of a defect. There are also risks of physical injury to a patient when treated with one of our products, even if a product is not defective. Such potential adverse effects may cause a significant increase in the premiums under our insurance policies. Further, the coverage limits of our product liability insurance policies may not be adequate to cover future claims. A successful claim brought against us in excess of, or outside of, our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if unsuccessful, such a claim could nevertheless have an adverse impact on our company, due to damage to our reputation and diversion of management resources. Our products include a limited time warranty which could result in substantial additional costs to the company should we fail to monitor product quality effectively. We generally provide a 12-month warranty on our laser systems; however, in some instances, we provide a more extended warranty on systems sold to end-users. After the warranty period, maintenance and support is provided on a service contract basis or on an individual call basis. If our products malfunction, warranty claims may become significant, which could cause a significant drain on our resources and materially adversely affect our results of operations. In manufacturing our products, we depend on subcontractors and third-party suppliers for various components, many of which require a significant degree of technical expertise to produce. If our suppliers fail to produce components to specification, or if the suppliers, our subcontractors, or we, use defective materials or substandard workmanship in the manufacturing process, the reliability and performance of our products will be compromised. The occurrence of these defects could increase our costs associated with our warranty program and thus materially harm our business. Our systems may not be able to meet patient expectations and there may be adverse side effects from the procedures for which our products are used. Our future success, particularly in the aesthetic segment, depends upon patients having a positive experience with the procedures for which our products are used. This is due to the fact that we rely both on individual patients’ repeat business and word-of-mouth referrals to increase physician and clinician demand for our products. Patients may be dissatisfied with these procedures if they find them to be too painful or if they experience excessive temporary swelling or reddening of the skin as a procedural side effect. In rare instances, patients may receive burns, blisters, skin discoloration or skin depressions that would discourage a patient from having additional procedures or from recommending these procedures to others. In order to generate repeat and referral business, we also believe that patients must be satisfied with the effectiveness of the procedures. Results obtained from the procedures for which our products are used may vary and the patient reactions to those results are subjective. A product treatment may produce results that may not meet patients’ expectations. If patients are not satisfied with the procedure or feel that it is too expensive for the results obtained, our reputation and future sales could suffer. Furthermore, if patients are not satisfied with the procedures as a result of the physician not operating our products properly or otherwise not conducting the procedure properly, both of which are outside of our control, it could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and future sales. We depend on skilled personnel to operate our business effectively in a rapidly changing market, and we may be unable to retain existing, or hire additional, skilled personnel. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our key senior management and sales, technical and scientific personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry is intense and finding and retaining qualified personnel with experience in our industry is challenging. Further, our business could be materially adversely affected by the loss of the services of any of our existing key personnel, whether through resignation, death or injury. The technologically-intense industry in which we operate is particularly prone to the movement of employees to competitors. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be successful in hiring and retaining properly trained and experienced personnel. Our inability to attract, motivate, train and retain qualified new personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Additionally, a significant portion of our compensation to our key employees is in the form of stock option grants. A prolonged depression in the price of our ordinary B shares could make it difficult for us to retain our employees and recruit additional qualified personnel. 12 Exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar or other currencies and the shekel or other currencies may negatively affect our results of operations. The U.S. dollar is our functional and reporting currency. Although most of our revenues are in U.S. dollars, a significant portion of our expenses, principally salaries and the related personnel expenses for Israeli employees and consultants, local vendors and subcontractors, are in shekels, and a portion of our expenses is denominated in other currencies, in particular the euro, the Japanese yen and the Chinese yuan. The remainder of our revenues is denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, in particular the euro and the Japanese yen. As a result, we are exposed to the risk that the U.S. dollar will devalue in relation to the shekel or, if the shekel instead devalues in relation to the U.S. dollar, that the rate of inflation in Israel will exceed the rate of devaluation of the shekel in relation to the U.S. dollar or other currencies or that the timing of such devaluation will lag behind inflation in Israel. Such currency fluctuations would have the effect of increasing the dollar cost of our operations and would therefore have a material adverse effect on our dollar-measured results of operations. For example, although the U.S. dollar appreciated against the shekel in 2011, the rate of devaluation of the U.S. dollar against the shekel was approximately 2.4% in 2012 and 7.0% in 2013, which was compounded by inflation in Israel at rates of approximately 1.6% and 1.8%, respectively. This had the effect of increasing the U.S. dollar cost of our operations in Israel. Furthermore, because a material portion of our non-U.S. revenues is denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, the strengthening of the U.S. dollar in relation to other currencies, in particular the euro and the Japanese yen, will negatively affect our results of operations. In 2013, the U.S. dollar appreciated by 21.8% relative to the Japanese yen, thereby adversely affecting the dollar value of our Japanese-based sales and related revenues during that period. Largely as a result of this depreciation, our revenues in the year ended December 31, 2013 in Japan declined, particularly in the ophthalmic segment. In addition, in 2010 and 2011 the U.S. dollar appreciated in relation to the euro by 8.0% and 3.2%, respectively, thereby adversely affecting the dollar value of our euro-denominated revenues. We cannot predict any future trends in the rate of inflation in Israel or the rate of devaluation or appreciation of the shekel or other currencies against the U.S. dollar. Although we engage in currency hedging activities, primarily with regard to the shekel, the Japanese yen and the euro, we may nevertheless be inadequately protected from adverse effects of currency fluctuations and the impact of inflation in Israel. For additional information relating to the impact of exchange rate fluctuations, see “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects - Impact of Inflation and Currency Fluctuations” in “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects” in Item 5 below. Our existing and planned international operations expose us to additional market and operational risks associated with the business environment in those countries. We conduct our operations at our headquarters in Israel, as well as through our subsidiaries in Europe, the United States, Japan, China and Hong Kong, India, Singapore and Australia. Our revenues are derived primarily from international sales through our international sales subsidiaries and exports to foreign distributors and resellers. During the year ended December 31, 2013, approximately 34.7% of our total revenues were from the Americas with the remainder divided among the APAC region (approximately 32.5%); the Europe, Middle East and Africa region, which we refer to collectively as EMEA (approximately 18.0%); and Japan (approximately 14.8%). Less than 1% of our revenues were attributable to Israel, where our company is headquartered. We anticipate that international sales, and in particular sales to APAC, will continue to account for the substantial majority of our revenues in the foreseeable future. Our international operations and sales are subject to a number of risks, including: • the impact of earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters or occurrences adversely affecting local economies; • the impact of military or civil conflicts or other political risks; • disruption or delays in shipments caused by customs brokers or government agencies; • imposition by governments of controls that prevent or restrict the transfer of funds; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs, customs, duties, tax laws and other trade barriers; 13 • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • preference for locally manufactured products; • longer accounts receivable collection periods and greater difficulties in their collection; • difficulties in protecting or enforcing patent, trademark and other intellectual property rights in certain foreign countries (especially in the APAC region), as described below; and • potentially adverse tax consequences resulting from changes in tax laws. If we fail to overcome the challenges that we encounter in our international sales operations, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition to the general risks listed above, our operations in Israel are subject to certain country-specific risks described below under “Risks Relating Primarily to our Location in Israel”. We face various risks associated with the manufacture of our products. The manufacture of our lasers and the related delivery devices is a highly complex and precise process. We assemble the majority of the critical subassemblies and our final products at our facilities in Salt Lake City, Utah and Yokneam, Israel. We also have a small manufacturing and refurbishing center in China for key components of our ophthalmic products. We may experience manufacturing difficulties or disruptions, quality issues or capacity constraints, both in respect of existing products and with regard to new products that we may introduce. As a result, product shipments to our customers could be delayed or could contain products that do not conform to our production standards, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Moreover, with the exception of limited outsourcing, the manufacture of all of our ophthalmic products and accessories takes place in our Salt Lake City, Utah facility and the manufacture of all of our aesthetic and surgical products and accessories takes place in our Yokneam facility. Accordingly, we are highly dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of these facilities. These facilities could be subject to a catastrophic loss as a result of natural disasters such as an earthquake, flood or wildfire. Other losses to the facilities may result from fires, accidents, work stoppages, power outages, acts of war or terrorism. See “ Risks Relating Primarily to Our Location in Israel – Political, economic and military instability in Israel and the Middle East may adversely affect our operations and may limit our ability to produce and sell our products” below. Any such loss at our facilities could disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in large expenses to repair or replace facilities, and our insurance might not be sufficient to cover such loss. Longer-term business disruptions could result in a loss of customers. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, we currently rely on a single manufacturer in Israel to manufacture and assemble products that accounted for approximately 21% of our revenues in the year ended December 31, 2013. If this manufacturer experiences delays, disruptions or quality control problems in manufacturing our products, or if we fail to effectively manage our relationship with this manufacturer, product shipments may be delayed and our ability to deliver these products to customers could be materially and adversely affected. Disruptions to our IT system may disrupt our operations and materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our servers and equipment may be subject to computer viruses, break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with computer systems. We can provide no assurance that our current information technology (IT) system is fully protected against third-party intrusions, viruses, hacker attacks, information or data theft or other similar threats. A cyber-attack that bypasses our IT security systems causing an IT security breach may lead to a material disruption of our IT business systems and/or the loss of business information. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, the continued worldwide threat of terrorism and heightened security in response to such threat may cause further disruptions and create further uncertainties or may otherwise materially harm our business. To the extent that such disruptions or uncertainties result in delays or cancellations of customer orders or the manufacture or shipment of our products, or in theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation or release of our confidential data or our intellectual property, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 14 A substantial portion of our sales are completed in the last few weeks of each calendar quarter, and such anticipated sales may not materialize. We typically receive a disproportionate percentage of orders toward the end of each calendar quarter, including the fourth quarter, which is generally our strongest quarter. To the extent that we do not receive anticipated orders, or orders are delayed beyond the end of the applicable quarter or year, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, because a significant portion of our sales in each quarter result from orders received in that quarter, we base our production, inventory and operating expenditure levels on anticipated revenue levels. Thus, if sales do not occur when expected, expenditure levels could be disproportionately high and operating results for that quarter and, potentially, future quarters would be adversely affected. The long initial sales process for our products — which can last up to 18 months in the case of sales by our surgical segment — may cause us to incur significant expenses without any resulting revenues. Customers typically expend significant effort in evaluating, testing and qualifying our products before making a decision to purchase them, resulting in a lengthy initial sales cycle. While our customers are evaluating our products, we may incur substantial sales and marketing expenses. We may also expend significant management efforts, increase manufacturing capacity and order long-lead-time components or materials. Even after this evaluation process, a potential customer may not purchase our products. As a result, these long initial sales cycles may cause us to incur significant expenses without any resulting revenues and, in the aggregate, may materially adversely affect our results of operations. Any acquisitions that we may make could harm or disrupt our business and are not assured to bring their anticipated benefits and synergies. We have in the past made acquisitions of other businesses, technologies and/or assets, and we continue to evaluate potential strategic acquisitions. We cannot give assurances that we will be able to identify future suitable acquisition candidates, or, if we do identify suitable candidates, that we will be able to make the acquisitions on reasonable terms or at all. Such acquisitions could also involve numerous risks, including: • problems combining the acquired operations, technologies (including IT systems) or products with our own; • unanticipated costs or liabilities; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with distributors, suppliers and customers; • entering markets in which we may have no or limited prior experience; • diversion of management’s attention from our core businesses; and • potential loss of key employees, particularly those of the purchased organizations. Any such acquisitions in the future could strain our managerial, operational and financial resources, as well as our financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. In order to integrate acquired businesses, we will have to continue to improve operating and financial systems and controls. If we fail to successfully implement these systems and controls in a timely and cost-effective manner, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, we cannot provide any assurance that we will realize the anticipated benefits and/or synergies of any such acquisition. In attempting to effect acquisitions, we may be limited due to the covenants under our debt restructuring agreement, thereby limiting our ability to obtain the maximal benefits from any such acquisition. The size and manner of any acquisition that we seek to effect could be limited by our need to comply with the negative covenants contained in the Restructuring Agreement, governing our Bank debt. This could prevent us from effecting a key acquisition and thereby potentially stymie our growth and also hurt our competitive position and ultimately our results of operations. For additional details concerning our bank covenants, see “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects- Bank debt restructuring agreement” in Item 5 below. We have allocated substantial sums to goodwill as a result of the acquisitions made by us over the years and we may be required to write-off a material part of this goodwill. As of December 31, 2013, we had a balance of $50.2 million allocated to goodwill in connection with various acquisitions made by us in previous years. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if impairment indicators are present. Should this testing reveal that there has been an impairment of the value of goodwill, it would be necessary to write down or write-off the amount of the impairment. A substantial impairment of goodwill could materially adversely affect our results of operations. 15 Global economic and social conditions have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Negative conditions in the national and global economic environments have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The uncertain direction and strength of the global economy, continuing geopolitical uncertainties and other macroeconomic factors have harmed, and may continue to harm, our business. The global economic downturn that began in 2008 has continued and global financial markets, particularly in Europe, which accounted for approximately 16% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2013, continue to be adversely affected by a multitude of factors. Adverse credit conditions, slower economic activity, increased energy costs, renewed inflation, decreased consumer confidence, reduced capital spending, adverse business conditions, liquidity concerns and other factors have mitigated the strength of economic recovery. During uncertain economic times and in tight credit markets, many of our customers and distributors may experience financial difficulties or be unable or unwilling to borrow money to fund their operations, including obtaining credit lines for leasing equipment, and may delay or reduce technology purchases or reduce the extent of their operations. The market for aesthetic procedures and the market for our premium products can be particularly vulnerable to economic uncertainty, since the end-users of our products may decrease the demand for our products when they have less discretionary income or feel uneasy about spending their discretionary income. In addition, in many instances, the ability of our customers to purchase our products depends in part upon the availability of bank financing at acceptable interest rates. Furthermore, in the surgical market, in tight economic times when budget deficits are commonplace, hospitals and similar institutions may be less willing or unable to allocate the requisite budget for the purchase of our products. For example, while we did not experience a decrease in the sales of our surgical products in 2012 or in 2013, in previous years many hospitals in the United States have implemented a near freeze on the purchase of expensive capital equipment. These factors have resulted and could continue to result in reductions in revenues from sales of our products, longer sales cycles, difficulties in collection of accounts receivable, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. Payment by our customers of our receivables is dependent upon the financial stability of the economies of certain countries. In light of the current economic state of many countries outside of the United States, we continue to monitor the creditworthiness of our customers because weakness in the end-user market could negatively affect the cash flow of our distributors and resellers who could, in turn, delay paying their obligations to us. This would increase our credit risk exposure and cause delays in our recognition of revenues on current and future sales to these customers. Any of these events would likely harm our business, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have an important relationship with Boston Scientific Corporation relating to our urology products in the United States. Boston Scientific Corporation is one of the major customers for our urology products in the United States, representing less than 5% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013. Furthermore, in December 2011 we signed a distribution agreement with Boston Scientific for the promotion of our lasers and fibers in the interventional fields in the United States, pursuant to which Boston Scientific is an independent distributor. The term of the distribution agreement expires on December 31, 2016. Any termination of the distribution agreement, adverse change in our relationship or change in Boston Scientific’s business, including a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Risks Related to Regulatory Matters We are subject to extensive and increasing international government regulations relating to our business and products. Our ability to sell our products is subject to various federal, state, national and international rules, and these various processes are costly, lengthy and uncertain. Changes to existing U.S., European Union (E.U.) and other national and international rules and regulations, as discussed here and in the risk factor below, could limit our ability to comply with the regulatory requirements. For instance, the E.U., requires us to comply with the European Medical Device Directive’s criteria and obtain a CE Mark prior to the sale of our medical products in any E.U. member state. The European Medical Device Directive sets out specific requirements for each stage in the development of a medical product, from design to final inspection. 16 Our products are subject to additional similar regulations in most of the international markets in which we sell our products and may require, as in China, extensive and rigorous regulatory review of our products in order to obtain regulatory approval. Additionally, new or more extensive regulatory requirements in any of the countries in which we do business could adversely affect our ability to sell our current and future lines of products internationally, increase our costs and materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are subject to extensive and increasing U.S. government regulations relating to our business and products. Unless an exemption applies, each medical device that we intend to market in the United States must receive prior review by the FDA before it can be marketed. Certain products qualify for Section 510(k) clearance, under which the manufacturer provides the FDA with pre-market notification of its intention to commence marketing the product. The manufacturer must, among other things, establish that the product to be marketed is “substantially equivalent” to a previously marketed medical device. In some cases, the manufacturer may be required to support a pre-market notification submission with clinical data. Such clinical data is gathered under an investigational device exemption, to which we refer as an IDE, granted by the FDA, which allows human clinical trials and gathering of relevant clinical data in support of demonstrating substantial equivalence. The FDA’s 510(k) clearance process usually takes from three to eight months, but it can take longer. Further, in the United States, lasers are subject to an additional set of regulations beyond those that apply to other medical devices, which requires us to meet certain reporting requirements. Products that do not qualify for the 510(k) procedure must be approved through the pre-market approval, or PMA, process. The PMA process requires that the manufacturer provide the FDA with clinical data to demonstrate that the product is both safe and effective. The PMA process requires more extensive clinical testing than the 510(k) procedure and generally involves a significantly longer FDA review process. PMA generally requires pre-clinical laboratory and animal tests and human clinical studies conducted under an IDE to establish safety and effectiveness. For products subject to PMA, the regulatory process generally takes from one to three years or more and involves substantially greater risks and commitment of resources than the 510(k) clearance process. We may not be able to obtain necessary regulatory approvals or clearances on a timely basis, if at all, for any of our products under development, and delays in receipt of, or failure to receive, such approvals or clearances could have a material adverse effect on our business. The approval and clearances processes are highly uncertain and are subject to legislative and regulatory change. Even if the FDA approves a PMA or clears a product under section 510(k), the agency may limit the intended uses of the product so that it is not commercially feasible to market the product for the limited uses approved or cleared by the FDA. Moreover, any facility where the device is made must be registered with the FDA and is subject to inspection by the agency. In the United States, we are subject to pre-approval inspection, post-approval inspection, and market surveillance to determine compliance with regulatory requirements. Following clearance or approval, marketed products are subject to continuing regulation and facilities are subject to unannounced inspections. We are required to adhere to the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, to which we refer as QSR, and similar regulations in other countries, which include design, testing, production, quality control and documentation requirements. Ongoing compliance with QSR, labeling and other applicable regulatory requirements is monitored through periodic inspections and market surveillance by the FDA and by comparable agencies in other countries. Our failure to comply with applicable requirements could lead to an enforcement action, which could have an adverse effect on our business. The FDA can institute a wide variety of enforcement actions, ranging from a public warning letter to more severe sanctions such as: • fines, injunctions and civil penalties; • recall or seizure of our products; • requiring us to repair, replace or refund the cost of our products; • the issuance of public notices or warnings; • operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production; • delays in the introduction of products into the market; 17 • refusal of our requests for 510(k) clearance or PMA of new products; • withdrawal of 510(k) clearance or PMAs already granted; and • criminal prosecution. Any of these sanctions could result in higher than anticipated costs or lower than anticipated sales and have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. These potential sanctions and the costs associated with conforming to the FDA’s rules could increase our costs and have a material adverse effect on our business. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in additional foreign jurisdictions will prevent us from expanding the commercialization of our products abroad. We must obtain regulatory approvals and comply with the regulations of countries where we market and sell our products. These regulations, including the requirements for approvals and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. Clearance or approval by the FDA does not ensure foreign regulatory approval, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval other foreign countries or by the FDA. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA clearance or approval. For example, the China Food and Drug Administration, or the CFDA, conducts independent review of our products prior to approval, and FDA clearance or approval of the same product does not assure similar clearance or approval by the CFDA. Obtaining and maintaining foreign regulatory approvals are expensive, and we cannot be certain that we will receive regulatory approvals in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, on a timely basis, if at all. If we fail to obtain or maintain regulatory approval on a timely basis, or at all, in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, our ability to generate revenue will be harmed. In addition, national and regional authorities have recently introduced environmental legislation and issued environment directives. As a result, we may be required to expend significant amounts of both time and money to ensure that we are in compliance with these requirements. For additional information concerning the environmental regulations with which we must comply, please see “— We are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations.” Our products may in the future require corrective measures to maintain their regulatory approvals, which could harm our reputation, business operations and financial results. Manufacturers of products such as ours may independently initiate actions, including field corrections, non-reportable market withdrawals or reportable product recalls, for the purpose of, among other reasons, correcting a material deficiency or improving device performance. Additionally, the FDA and similar foreign health or governmental authorities have the authority to require a mandatory recall of commercialized products in the event of a violation of relevant statutory and regulatory requirements, including material deficiencies or defects in design, manufacturing or labeling or in the event that a product poses an unacceptable risk to health. In addition, foreign governmental bodies have the authority to require the recall of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. Such actions involving any of our products would divert managerial and financial resources and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Companies are required to maintain certain records of actions, even if they determine such actions are not reportable to the FDA. If we determine that certain actions do not require notification of the FDA, the FDA may disagree with our determinations and require us to formally report those actions as recalls, which requires public announcement. A future recall announcement could harm our reputation with customers and negatively affect our sales. In addition, the FDA could take enforcement action for failing to report remedial actions taken by us when they were conducted or failing to timely report or initiate a reportable product action. Depending on the corrective action, the FDA may require, or we may decide, that we need to obtain new approvals or clearances for the corrected device before we may market or distribute it. Seeking such approvals or clearances may delay our ability to replace the recalled devices in a timely manner. Moreover, if we do not adequately address problems associated with our devices, we may face additional regulatory enforcement action, including FDA warning letters, product seizure, injunctions, administrative penalties, or civil or criminal fines. We may be subject to fines, penalties or injunctions if we are determined to be promoting the use of our products for unapproved or “off-label” uses. Our promotional materials and training methods must comply with FDA and other applicable laws and regulations, including the prohibition of the promotion of a medical device for a use that has not been cleared or approved by the relevant regulatory authority. Use of a device outside its cleared or approved indications is known as “off-label” use. Physicians may use our products off-label, as some regulatory authorities (including the FDA) do not restrict or regulate a physician’s choice of treatment within the practice of medicine. However, if a regulatory authority (such as the FDA) determines that our promotional materials or training constitutes promotion of an off-label use, it could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory or enforcement actions, which could have an adverse impact on our reputation and financial results. In addition, allegations of “off-label” promotion may form the basis for an action alleging a violation of the U.S. federal False Claims Act, which carries significant civil fines and penalties. 18 We may be affected by healthcare policy changes, including recently passed legislation to reform the U.S. healthcare system. Potential fundamental changes in the political, economic and regulatory landscape of the healthcare industry could substantially affect our results of operations. Government and private sector initiatives to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including price regulation, competitive pricing, coverage and payment policies, comparative effectiveness of therapies, technology assessments and managed-care arrangements, are continuing in many countries where we do business. These changes are causing the marketplace to put increased emphasis on the delivery of more cost-effective treatments. In the United States, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, to which we refer collectively as the PPACA, was enacted into law in March 2010. Certain provisions of the PPACA will not be effective for a number of years. There are many programs and requirements for which the details have not yet been fully established or consequences not fully understood, and it is unclear what the full impact of the legislation will be. Because the substantial majority of Americas revenues is generated in the United States, the PPACA may materially affect us. Beginning in 2013, the PPACA imposes on medical device manufacturers a 2.3% excise tax on the first sale or use of certain medical devices within the United States. As we are subject to such excise tax and as U.S. revenues represented the substantial majority of our total Americas revenues in 2013, this tax burden may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our cash flows. Other provisions of the PPACA could meaningfully change the way healthcare is developed and delivered in the United States, and may adversely affect our business and results of operations. We cannot predict what healthcare programs and regulations will ultimately be implemented at the U.S. federal or state level, or the effect of any future legislation or regulation in the United States or elsewhere. However, any changes that lower reimbursements for our products or reduce medical procedure volumes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Initiatives sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies and the private sector to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including price regulation and competitive pricing, also are ongoing in other markets where we do business. We are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. The use of toxic and other hazardous material in some of the production processes for products sold by us could result in claims against us that could have a material adverse affect on our business and results of operations. We and/or the manufacturers of our products use laboratory and manufacturing materials that may be considered hazardous, and we could be liable for any damage or liability resulting from accidental environmental contamination or injury. Some of the gases used in the excimer lasers that we sell may be highly toxic. The risk of accidental environmental contamination or injury from such materials cannot be entirely eliminated. In the event of an accident involving such materials, we could be liable for any damage, and such liability could exceed the amount of our liability insurance coverage and the resources of our business, and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may be required to expend significant amounts of both time and money to ensure that we are in compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in multiple jurisdictions governing, among other things, the use, storage, registration, handling and disposal of chemicals and waste materials, the presence of specified substances in electrical products, chemicals, air, water and ground contamination, air emissions and the cleanup of contaminated sites, including any contamination that results from spills due to our failure to properly dispose of chemicals and waste materials. These laws and regulations could potentially require the expenditure of significant amounts for compliance and/or remediation. If we fail to comply with such laws or regulations, we may be subject to fines and other civil, administrative or criminal sanctions, including the revocation of permits and licenses necessary to continue our business activities. In addition, we may be required to pay damages or civil judgments in respect of third-party claims, including those relating to personal injury (including exposure to hazardous substances used stored, handled, transported, or disposed of), property damage or contribution claims. Some environmental laws allow for strict, joint and several liability for remediation costs, regardless of comparative fault. We may be identified as a potentially responsible party under such laws. Such developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 We are subject to various laws and regulations, including “fraud and abuse” laws and anti-bribery laws, which, if violated, could subject us to substantial penalties. Medical device companies such as ours have faced lawsuits and investigations pertaining to alleged violations of numerous statutes and regulations, including anti-corruption laws and health care “fraud and abuse” laws, such as the federal False Claims Act, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which we refer to as the FCPA. We also face increasingly strict data privacy and security laws in the United States and in other countries, the violation of which could result in fines and other sanctions. U.S. federal and state laws, including the federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act, or the Sunshine Act, and the implementation of Open Payments regulations under the Sunshine Act, require medical device companies to disclose certain payments made to healthcare providers and teaching hospitals or funds spent on marketing and promotion of medical device products. It is widely anticipated that public reporting under the Sunshine Act and implementing Open Payments regulations will result in increased scrutiny of the financial relationships between industry, physicians and teaching hospitals. These anti-kickback, anti-bribery, public reporting and aggregate spend laws affect our sales, marketing and other promotional activities by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements, including sales programs, we may have with hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers or users of medical devices. They also impose additional administrative and compliance burdens on us. In particular, these laws influence, among other things, how we structure our sales offerings, including discount practices, customer support, education and training programs and physician consulting and other service arrangements. If we are in violation of any of these requirements or any actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business, including the imposition of significant criminal and civil fines and penalties, exclusion from federal healthcare programs or other sanctions. The FCPA applies to companies, such as us, with a class of securities registered under the Exchange Act. The FCPA and other anti-bribery laws to which various of our operations may be subject generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. In various jurisdictions, our operations require that we and third parties acting on our behalf routinely interact with government officials, including medical personnel who may be considered government officials for purposes of these laws because they are employees of state-owned or controlled facilities. Other anti-bribery laws to which various of our operations may be subject, including the United Kingdom Bribery Act, also prohibit improper payments to private parties and prohibit receipt of improper payments. Our policies historically have prohibited our employees from making or receiving corrupt payments and we also updated them recently, including, among other things, to require compliance by third parties engaged to act on our behalf. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws, however, we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental and/or private corruption to some degree. As a result, the existence and implementation of a robust anti-corruption program cannot eliminate all risk that unauthorized reckless or criminal acts have been or will be committed by our employees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property We may not be able to protect our proprietary technology or prevent its unauthorized use or disclosure by third parties. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, licenses, non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements, assignments of invention agreements and other restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. We have obtained and now hold more than 140 patents in the United States and an additional 85 patents throughout the rest of the world and have outstanding applications for 32 patents in the United States and 40 patents outside of the United States as of December 31, 2013. Our patent portfolio alone may not provide us with a significant advantage over our competitors and thus, our competitive advantage depends on our ability to leverage our current brand strength and existing market position. Any issued patents may be challenged by third parties, and patents that we hold may be found by a judicial authority or governmental agency to be invalid or unenforceable. Furthermore, our patent applications may not be approved, and any patents that currently are or in the future may be issued may not be adequate to protect our intellectual property. 20 We require our employees and consultants to execute confidentiality agreements in connection with their employment or consulting relationships with us. We also require our employees and consultants to disclose and assign to us all inventions conceived during the term of their employment or engagement while using our property or which relate to our business. However, these measures may not be adequate to safeguard our proprietary intellectual property and conflicts may, nonetheless, arise regarding ownership of inventions. Such conflicts may lead to the loss or impairment of our intellectual property or to expensive litigation to defend our rights against competitors who may be better funded and have superior resources. We also have taken precautions to protect our IT systems. However, these precautions may not be adequate to prevent unauthorized access or misappropriation of our confidential information. Additionally, our employees, consultants, contractors, suppliers, and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our confidential information to competitors. In addition, confidentiality agreements may be unenforceable or may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure. Enforcing a claim that a third-party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. Moreover, other parties may independently develop similar or competing technology, methods, know-how or design around any patents that may be issued to or held by us. Unauthorized parties may also attempt to copy or reverse engineer certain aspects of our products that we consider proprietary. As a result, other parties may be able to use our proprietary technology or information, and our ability to compete in the market would be harmed. We cannot be certain that the steps that we have taken will prevent the misappropriation of our intellectual property. If we are unable to maintain the security of our proprietary technology or other factors that protect our competitive advantage, it could materially adversely affect our competitive advantage, business and results of operations. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights throughout the world. Filing, prosecuting, maintaining and defending patents on each of our products in all countries throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive, and our intellectual property rights in some countries outside the United States are less extensive than those in the United States. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as federal and state laws in the United States. Also, it may not be possible to effectively enforce intellectual property rights in some foreign countries at all or to the same extent as in the United States and other countries. Consequently, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our inventions in all countries, or from selling or importing products made using our inventions in the jurisdictions in which we do not have (or are unable to effectively enforce) patent protection. Competitors may use our technologies in jurisdictions where we have not obtained patent protection to develop, market or otherwise commercialize their own products, and we may be unable to prevent those competitors from importing those infringing products into territories where we have patent protection but enforcement is not as strong as in the United States. These products may compete with our products and our patents and other intellectual property rights may not be effective or sufficient to prevent them from competing in those jurisdictions. Moreover, competitors or others in the chain of commerce may raise legal challenges against our intellectual property rights or may infringe upon our intellectual property rights, including through means that may be difficult to prevent or detect. Some companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions, including China, a significant and growing market for our products. It may be difficult under the legal systems of certain countries, including China, to enforce of patents or other intellectual property rights, which could hinder us from preventing the infringement of our patents or other intellectual property rights in those countries and result in substantial risks to us. We may become subject to litigation brought by third parties claiming infringement by us of their intellectual property rights. The laser and light-based systems industry in which our business operates is characterized by a very large number of patents, some of which may be of questionable scope, validity or enforceability, and some of which may appear to overlap with other issued patents. As a result, there is a significant amount of uncertainty in the industry regarding patent protection and infringement, and, in recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights. We have in the past been, and in the future may become, subject to claims and litigation alleging infringement by us of third-party patents and other intellectual property. These claims and any resulting lawsuits, if resolved adversely to us, could subject us to significant liability for damages, impose temporary or permanent injunctions against our products, services or business operations, or invalidate or render unenforceable our intellectual property. In addition, because patent applications can take many years until the patents issue, there may be applications now pending of which we are unaware, which may later result in issued patents that our products may infringe. If any of our products infringes a valid and enforceable patent, or if we wish to avoid potential intellectual property litigation on its alleged infringement, we could be prevented from selling that product unless we can obtain a license, which may be unavailable. Alternatively, we could be forced to pay substantial royalties or redesign a product to avoid infringement. Additionally, we may face liability to our customers, business partners or the third parties for indemnification or other remedies in the event they are sued for infringement in connection with their use of our products or services. 21 We also may not be successful in any attempt to redesign our product to avoid any alleged infringement. A successful claim of infringement against us, or our failure or inability to develop and implement non-infringing technology, or license the infringed technology, on acceptable terms and on a timely basis, could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Furthermore, such lawsuits, regardless of their success, would likely be time-consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert management’s time and attention from our business, which could seriously harm our business. Also, such lawsuits, regardless of their success, could seriously harm our reputation with our customers, business partners and patients and in the industry at large. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent or intellectual property litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. Litigation initiated by us concerning the violation by third parties of our intellectual property rights is likely to be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to the invalidation of, or render unenforceable, our intellectual property, or could otherwise have negative consequences for us. We have been, and in the future may be, a party to claims and litigation as a result of alleged infringement by third parties of our intellectual property. Even when we sue other parties for such infringement, that suit may have adverse consequences for our business. Any such suit may be time-consuming and expensive to resolve and may divert our management’s time and attention from our business. Furthermore, it could result in a court or governmental agency invalidating or rendering unenforceable our patents or other intellectual property rights upon which the suit is based, which would seriously harm our business. Any party that we sue may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent or intellectual property litigation more effectively than we can due to greater resources that such party may possess. Examples of intellectual property infringement actions brought by us that required a significant amount of time and expense prior to resolution include our suits against Alma Lasers Ltd. and Alma Lasers, Inc. (to which we refer, both individually and jointly, as Alma) and certain of their founders, who are former employees of our company (to which we refer as the Alma Founders). We initiated in June 2007 (in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois) and settled, in September 2010, a lawsuit against Alma for patent infringement, resulting in Alma paying to us $6.5 million in return for a license to our patent portfolio in the aesthetic field. In 2008, we brought an additional suit, in Israel, against the Alma Founders, claiming misappropriation of our trade secrets and technology and the use of such technology in Alma’s primary Harmony products . Such suit concluded in May 2013, when it was settled, resulting in a payment to us, in exchange for a license to the trade secrets and technology. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that our employees or we have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. Many of our employees were previously employed at other companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. We could in the future be subject to claims that these employees, or we, have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending against such claims, a court could order us to pay substantial damages and prohibit us from using technologies or features that are essential to our products, if such technologies or features are found to incorporate or be derived from the trade secrets or other proprietary information of the former employers. An inability to incorporate technologies or features that are important or essential to our products would have a material adverse effect on our business, and may prevent us from selling our products. In addition, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key research personnel or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to commercialize certain potential products, which could severely harm our business. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, such litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. Incurring such costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. 22 Risks Relating Primarily to Our Location in Israel Political, economic and military instability in Israel and the Middle East may adversely affect our operations and may limit our ability to produce and sell our products. We are incorporated in Israel, and our principal executive offices, our surgical and aesthetic business segments and one of our two principal manufacturing facilities (for our surgical and aesthetic business segments) are located in Israel. A substantial portion of our research and development activities are conducted in Israel. Furthermore, our primary subcontractors are also located in Israel. As a result, political, economic and military conditions in Israel and elsewhere in the Middle East directly affect our operations. We could be harmed by any major hostilities involving Israel, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel. In the event of war, we and our Israeli subcontractors and suppliers may cease operations, which may cause delays in the development, manufacturing or shipment of our products. During the Second Lebanon War of 2006, between Israel and Hezbollah, a militant Islamic movement in Lebanon supported by Iran and Syria, rockets were fired from Lebanon into Israel causing casualties and major disruption of economic activities in the north of Israel. Our Yokneam facility and the facility of our primary contract manufacturer were within the range of the rocket attacks. Operations at our facility were significantly curtailed for a period of several weeks. An escalation in tension and violence between Israel and the militant Hamas movement (which controls the Gaza Strip) and other Palestinian Arab groups, culminated with Israel’s military campaign in Gaza in December 2008 and January 2009 in an endeavor to prevent continued rocket attacks against Israel’s southern towns. In November 2012, when Hamas increased the scope and intensity of its rocket attacks against Israeli civilian targets, Israel commenced a military operation in Gaza in an attempt to prevent the rocket attacks and disrupt the capabilities of the militant organization. It is unclear whether any ongoing negotiations between Israel and the Palestinian Authority will result in an agreement. In addition, Israel faces threats from more distant neighbors, in particular, Iran, an ally of Hezbollah and Hamas. In December 2010, a wave of demonstrations and civil protests took place throughout the Arab states of the Middle East and North Africa, which has so far resulted in regime change in several states, including Egypt, with whom Israel signed a peace treaty in 1979, and the outbreak of civil war in Syria. It is uncertain what impact these changes may have on Israel’s relations with its Arab neighbors, in general, or on our operations in the region, in particular. Were these changes to result in the establishment of new fundamentalist Islamic regimes or governments more hostile to Israel, or, for example, were the new Egyptian regime to abrogate its peace treaty with Israel, this could have serious consequences for the peace and stability in the region, place additional political, economic and military confines upon Israel and could materially adversely affect our operations and limit our ability to sell our products to countries in the region. Furthermore, several countries, principally in the Middle East, restrict doing business with Israel and Israeli companies, and additional countries may impose restrictions on doing business with Israel and Israeli companies if hostilities in the region continue or intensify. Such restrictions may seriously limit our ability to sell our products to customers in those countries. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, or significant downturns in the economic or financial condition of Israel, could adversely affect our operations and product development, cause our revenues to decrease and adversely affect the share price of publicly traded companies having operations in Israel, such as us. Similarly, Israeli corporations are limited in conducting business with entities from several countries. Our business insurance does not cover losses that may occur as a result of events associated with the security situation in the Middle East. Although the Israeli government currently covers the reinstatement value of direct damages that are caused by terrorist attacks or acts of war, we cannot assure you that this government coverage will be maintained or that such coverage will be adequate or proportional to the actual direct and indirect damages. Any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our operations could be disrupted as a result of the obligation of personnel in Israel to perform military service. As of December 31, 2013, we had 327 employees based in Israel, certain of whom (including certain of our executive officers), may be called upon to perform up to 54 days in each three year period (and in the case of officers, up to 84 days in each three year period) of military reserve duty until they reach the age of 40 (and in some cases, depending on their specific military profession up to 45 or even 49 years of age) and, in certain emergency circumstances, may be called to immediate and unlimited active duty. In the event of severe unrest or other conflict, individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. In response to increased tension and hostilities, there have been occasional call-ups of military reservists, as was the case in connection with Israel’s military campaigns in Gaza in December 2008, January 2009 and November 2012, and it is possible that there will be additional call-ups in the future. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence of a significant number of our employees related to military service or the absence for extended periods of one or more of our executive officers or other key employees for military service. Such disruption could materially adversely affect our business and operating results. 23 The government tax benefits that we currently receive require us to meet several conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future. Some of our operations in Israel, referred to as “Approved Enterprises” and “Benefited Enterprises,” carry certain tax benefits under the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 5719-1959, or the Investment Law. Based on an evaluation of the relevant factors under the Investment Law, including the level of foreign (i.e. non-Israeli) investment in our company, we have determined that our effective tax rate to be paid with respect to all of our Israeli operations under these benefits programs is 0%. Substantially all of our income before taxes can be attributed to these programs. If we do not meet the requirements for maintaining these benefits or if our assumptions regarding the key elements affecting our tax rates are rejected by the tax authorities, they may be reduced or cancelled and the relevant operations would be subject to Israeli corporate tax at the standard rate, which is currently set at 25% for 2013 and at 26.5% for 2014 and thereafter. In addition to being subject to the standard corporate tax rate, we could be required to refund any tax benefits that we have already received, plus interest and penalties thereon. Even if we continue to meet the relevant requirements, the tax benefits that our current “Approved Enterprise” and “Benefited Enterprises” receive may not be continued in the future at their current levels or at all. If these tax benefits were reduced or eliminated, the amount of taxes that we pay would likely increase, as all of our operations would consequently be subject to corporate tax at the standard rate, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, if we increase our activities outside of Israel, for example, by way of acquisitions, our increased activities may not be eligible for inclusion in Israeli tax benefit programs. See “Israeli Tax Considerations and Government Programs — Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments” in “Taxation” below for additional information concerning these tax benefits and Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our current tax obligations. Grants available from the Israeli government for research and development expenditures restrict our ability to manufacture products and transfer know-how outside of Israel and require us to satisfy specified conditions. We have received in the past, and may receive in the future, grants from the Government of Israel through the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Ministry of Economy, to which we refer to as the OCS, for the financing of a portion of our research and development expenditures in Israel. The terms of the OCS grants that we received in the past restrict us from manufacturing products developed using those grants outside of Israel without special approvals. In addition, decreases of the percentage of manufacturing performed in Israel from that originally declared in our application to the OCS may require us to notify or to obtain a prior approval from the OCS. Even if we receive approval to manufacture our products outside of Israel, we may be required to pay significantly increased amounts of royalties, plus interest, depending on the manufacturing volume that is performed outside of Israel. In addition, know-how developed under an approved research and development program may not be transferred to any third parties, except in certain circumstances and subject to prior approval. These restrictions and requirements for payment may impair our ability to sell our technology assets outside of Israel or to outsource or transfer development or manufacturing activities with respect to any product or technology outside of Israel without an appropriate approval. Furthermore, the consideration available to our shareholders in a transaction involving the transfer outside of Israel of technology or know-how developed with OCS funding (such as a merger or similar transaction) may be reduced by any amounts that we are required to pay to the OCS. We cannot assure you that any such approval will be obtained on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. In addition, if we fail to comply with any of the conditions imposed by the OCS, including the payment of royalties with respect to grants received, we may be required to refund any grants previously received, together with interest and penalties, and, in certain cases, may be subject to criminal charges. We may become subject to claims for remuneration or royalties for assigned service invention rights by our employees, which could result in litigation and adversely affect our business. We enter into assignment of invention agreements with our employees pursuant to which such individuals agree to assign to us all rights to any inventions created in the scope of their employment or engagement with us. A significant portion of our intellectual property has been developed by our employees in the course of their employment for us. Under the Israeli Patent Law, 5727-1967, or the Patent Law, inventions conceived by an employee during the scope of his or her employment with a company are regarded as “service inventions,” which belong to the employer, absent a specific agreement between employee and employer giving the employee service invention rights. The Patent Law also provides that if there is no such agreement between an employer and an employee the Israeli Compensation and Royalties Committee, or the Committee, a body constituted under the Patent Law, shall determine whether the employee is entitled to remuneration for their inventions. Recent decisions by the Committee have created uncertainty in this area, as it held that employees may be entitled to remuneration for their service inventions despite having specifically waived any such rights. Further, the Committee has not yet determined the method for calculating this Committee-enforced remuneration. Although our employees have agreed to assign to us rights, we may face claims demanding remuneration in consideration for assigned inventions. As a consequence of such claims, we could be required to pay additional remuneration or royalties to our current and/or former employees, or be forced to litigate such claims, which could otherwise negatively affect our business. 24 It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our officers and our directors in Israel based on U.S. securities laws claims or to serve process on our officers and directors and these experts. We are incorporated in Israel. The majority of our executive officers and directors are not residents of the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside of the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult for a shareholder, or any other person or entity, to enforce a U.S. court judgment based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws in a U.S. or Israeli court against us or any of our executive officers or directors, or to effect service of process upon such persons in the United States. In addition, it may be difficult to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws because Israel is not the most appropriate forum in which such a claim should be brought. Even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Also, certain matters of procedure will be governed by Israeli law. Provisions of Israeli law, as well as certain negative covenants contained in the Restructuring Agreement may delay, prevent or otherwise impede a merger with, or an acquisition of, us, even when the terms of such a transaction are favorable to us and our shareholders. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, requires tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to such types of transactions. For example, a tender offer for all of a company’s issued and outstanding shares can only be completed if the acquirer receives positive responses from the holders of at least 95% of the issued share capital. Completion of the tender offer also requires approval of a majority of the offerees that do not have a personal interest in the tender offer, unless at least 98% of the company’s outstanding shares are tendered. Furthermore, the shareholders, including those who indicated their acceptance of the tender offer (unless the acquirer stipulated in its tender offer that a shareholder that accepts the offer may not seek appraisal rights), may, at any time within six months following the completion of the tender offer, petition an Israeli court to alter the consideration for the acquisition. See “Description of Share Capital — Acquisitions Under Israeli Law” for additional information. Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions unappealing to us or to our shareholders whose country of residence does not have a tax treaty with Israel exempting such shareholders from Israeli tax. For example, Israeli tax law does not recognize tax-free share exchanges to the same extent as U.S. tax law. With respect to mergers, Israeli tax law allows for tax deferral in certain circumstances but makes the deferral contingent on the fulfillment of a number of conditions, including, in some cases, a holding period of two years from the date of the transaction during which sales and dispositions of shares of the participating companies are subject to certain restrictions. Moreover, with respect to certain share swap transactions, the tax deferral is limited in time, and when such time expires, the tax becomes payable even if no disposition of the shares has occurred. In addition, the Restructuring Agreement governing our Bank debt contains certain negative covenants that require us to refrain, among other things, from entering into or approving any merger, consolidation, or scheme of restructuring, or making certain acquisitions without obtaining prior Bank consent. These provisions of Israeli corporate and tax law, as well as the negative covenants contained in the Restructuring Agreement, may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making more difficult an acquisition of or merger with us, which could depress our share price. 25 Under current law in Israel and certain other jurisdictions, we may not be able to enforce covenants not to compete, and, therefore, we may be unable to prevent competitors from benefiting from the expertise of some of our former employees. We have entered into non-competition agreements with certain employees. These agreements prohibit our employees, if they cease working for us, from competing directly with us or working for our competitors for a limited period. Under current law, we may be unable to enforce these agreements, and it may be difficult for us to restrict our competitors from gaining the expertise that our former employees gained while working for us. For example, Israeli courts have required employers seeking to enforce non-compete undertakings of a former employee to demonstrate that the competitive activities of the former employee will harm one of a limited number of material interests of the employer that have been recognized by the courts, such as the secrecy of a company’s confidential commercial information or its intellectual property. If we cannot demonstrate that harm would be caused to our material interests, we may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of our former employees. In the past we have asserted claims for misappropriation of our trade secrets and infringement of our patents against companies founded by former employees, and we may be required to do so again in the future. The rights and responsibilities of a shareholder will be governed by Israeli law which differs in some material respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders of U.S. companies. The rights and responsibilities of the holders of our ordinary B shares are governed by our memorandum of association and articles of association and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some material respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in typical U.S.-registered corporations. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has certain duties to act in good faith and fairness towards the company and other shareholders, and to refrain from abusing its power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on matters such as amendments to a company’s articles of association, increases in a company’s authorized share capital, mergers and acquisitions and related party transactions requiring shareholder approval. In addition, a shareholder who is aware that it possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholder vote or to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or executive officer in the company has a duty of fairness toward the company. There is limited case law available to assist us in understanding the nature of this duty or the implications of these provisions. These provisions may be interpreted to impose additional obligations and liabilities on holders of our ordinary shares that are not typically imposed on shareholders of U.S. corporations. Risks Related to an Investment in Our Ordinary B Shares An active, liquid and orderly market for our ordinary B shares may not develop, which may inhibit the ability of our shareholders to sell ordinary B shares. Our original class of capital stock-- our ordinary shares-- is not listed for trading on any national securities exchange and, to our knowledge, is not quoted in any other market. Our new class of capital stock— our ordinary B shares— which was created in anticipation of, and was offered and sold in, our public offering that was consummated (in primary part) on March 4, 2014, has been listed since the pricing of the offering on NASDAQ under the symbol “LMNS”. Despite that listing on NASDAQ, an active, liquid or orderly trading market in our ordinary B shares may not develop, and if it does develop, it may not continue. If an active trading market does not develop, you may have difficulty selling any of our ordinary B shares that you buy at the time you wish to sell them or at a price that you consider reasonable. The public offering price of our ordinary B shares has been determined through our negotiations with the underwriters and may be higher than the market price of our ordinary B shares after the offering. Consequently, you may not be able to sell our ordinary B shares at prices equal to or greater than the price paid by you in the offering. An inactive market may also impair our ability to raise capital by selling shares of capital stock and may impair our ability to acquire other companies by using our shares as consideration. Trading by holders of our original, ordinary shares may adversely impact the price of our ordinary B shares. Prior to the consummation of the primary component of the offering and the listing of our ordinary B shares for trading on NASDAQ, we effected a recapitalization of our share capital. As part of the recapitalization, we created a new class of shares- ordinary B shares- in addition to our original ordinary shares. In addition, on February 13, 2014, our board of directors effected a reverse stock split at a ratio of 8.5 to 1 which was applied to all of our shares options and warrants, and which increased the exercise price per share of our options and warrants in a proportional manner. Furthermore, our board of directors authorized a share dividend of 12.5 ordinary B shares for every 100 ordinary shares held, which was distributed to all holders of our ordinary shares effective as of February 24, 2013. 26 As a result of the share dividend of ordinary B shares and the sale of additional, newly-issued ordinary B shares pursuant to the primary component of the offering, our issued and outstanding share capital now consists of 73.12% ordinary shares and 26.88% ordinary B shares. Our ordinary B shares are traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. Our ordinary shares continue not to be listed or quoted on any stock exchange. The legal rights of the holders of ordinary shares and ordinary B shares are identical, except that the ordinary shares shall automatically be reclassified as ordinary B shares on a 1:1 basis (x) in their entirety, on the 181st day following the date of the underwriting agreement for the offering (as may be extended by up to 33 days under certain circumstances, as described in our articles of association), or (y) partially, on a pro rata basis among holders of ordinary shares, based on a determination of our board of directors (after consultation with the underwriters for the offering) during the 180 day post-offering period. The recapitalization was intended to facilitate the development of a separate, orderly public trading market in our ordinary B shares by minimizing the potential impact on that market of trading in our original ordinary shares for 180 days (as may be extended by up to 33 days under certain circumstances as described in our articles of association). Nevertheless, certain holders of the ordinary B shares have not signed lock-up agreements with the underwriters and are not restricted from engaging in transactions in their securities, including hedging transactions that could include short sales. In addition, a separate over-the-counter market may independently develop in the ordinary shares even though they are not listed on an exchange. This may enable new or original shareholders to obtain a significant position in our ordinary shares and engage in the transactions described above during the 180-day period described above. Any of these actions may adversely impact the trading price of our ordinary B shares. Future sales of our ordinary B shares could reduce the market price of our ordinary B shares. If our original shareholders sell a substantial number of our ordinary B shares in the public market, the market price of our listed class of shares — our ordinary B shares — could decrease significantly. The perception in the public market that our shareholders might sell our ordinary B shares could also depress the market price of our ordinary B shares and could impair our future ability to obtain capital. Approximately 82.7% of our outstanding share capital before the offering is subject to lock-up agreements with the underwriters that restrict the ability to transfer ordinary shares and ordinary B shares for at least 180 days after the date of the underwriting agreement for the offering. In addition, substantially all of the remaining 17.3% of our shares, which are not subject to lock-up agreements, are not listed for trading on any market and will therefore not be readily transferable, until they are automatically reclassified as ordinary B shares on the 181st day (as may be extended for up to 33 days under certain circumstances) following the date of the underwriting agreement for the offering. Consequently, upon expiration of the lock-up agreements and automatic reclassification of all outstanding ordinary shares into ordinary B shares, an additional 28,048,218 of our shares will be eligible for sale in the public market (although approximately 21,194,817 of such shares will be subject to volume restrictions under Rule 144 under the Securities Act). The market price of our ordinary B shares may drop significantly when the restrictions on resale by our locked-up shareholders lapse and all of our ordinary shares reclassify as ordinary B shares that may be sold into the market. In addition, the sale by the selling shareholders of 769,352 ordinary B shares in the secondary component of the offering that closed on March 26, 2014, as well as a sale by our company of additional ordinary B shares or similar securities in order to raise capital might have a similar negative impact on the share price of our ordinary B shares. The exercise of options under our equity incentive plans and warrants and the sale of underlying shares may also have a similar negative effect. As of March 20, 2014, there were 2,898,792 shares (which, following the effectiveness of our recapitalization, are a combination of ordinary shares and ordinary B shares, but which will ultimately all be reclassified as ordinary B shares, as described above) issuable upon the exercise of outstanding options under our share option plans and 2,478,902 shares (which, following the effectiveness of our recapitalization, are a combination of ordinary shares and ordinary B shares, but which will ultimately all be reclassified as ordinary B shares) issuable upon the exercise of outstanding warrants (all of which warrants are currently exercisable). The shares underlying those warrants include shares underlying a warrant held by Bank Hapoalim for which it provided a notice of cashless exercise on March 2, 2014 , as further discussed below in "Operating and Financial Review and Prospects - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Bank Debt Restructuring Agreement" in Item 5. A decline in the price of our ordinary B shares might impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional ordinary B shares or other equity securities, and may cause you to lose part or all of your investment in our ordinary B shares. The market price of our ordinary B shares may be subject to fluctuation, whether or not due to fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The public offering price for our ordinary B shares was determined by negotiations between us and representatives of the underwriters and may not be indicative of prices that will prevail in the trading market. The price of our ordinary B shares may decline in the future. The stock market in general has been, and the market price of our ordinary B shares in particular will likely be, subject to fluctuation, whether due to, or irrespective of, our operating results and financial condition. The market price of our ordinary B shares on the NASDAQ Global Select Market may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to: • variations in our and our competitors’ results of operations and financial condition; 27 • market acceptance of our products; • the mix of products that we sell, and related services that we provide, during any period; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • development of new competitive systems and services by others; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us; • delays between our expenditures to develop and market new or enhanced products and solutions and the generation of sales from those products and solutions; • developments concerning intellectual property rights; • changes in the amount that we spend to develop, acquire or license new products, technologies or businesses; • changes in our expenditures to promote our products and services; • changes in the cost of satisfying our warranty obligations and servicing our installed base of systems; • our sale or proposed sale or the sale by our significant shareholders of our ordinary B shares, ordinary shares or other securities in the future; • success or failure of research and development projects of us or our competitors; • the general tendency towards volatility in the market prices of shares of technology companies; and • general market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance. These factors and any corresponding price fluctuations may materially and adversely affect the market price of our ordinary B shares and result in substantial losses being incurred by our investors. Market prices for securities of technology companies historically have been very volatile. The market for these securities has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of any one company. In the past, following periods of market volatility, public company shareholders have often instituted securities class action litigation. If we were involved in securities litigation, it could impose a substantial cost upon us and divert the resources and attention of our management from our business. If equity research analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our ordinary B shares, the price of our ordinary B shares could decline. The trading market for our ordinary B shares relies in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. We do not have control over these analysts and we do not have commitments from them to write research reports about us. The price of our ordinary B shares could decline if one or more equity research analysts downgrades our ordinary B shares or if those analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about us or our business. The significant share ownership positions of Viola-LM Partners L.P. and XT Hi-Tech Investments (1992) Ltd. may limit your ability to influence corporate matters. Viola LM Partners L.P., to whom we refer as Viola-LM, and XT Hi-Tech Investments (1992) Ltd., to whom we refer as XT Hi-Tech, own or control, directly and indirectly 37.3% and 25.3% of our total outstanding ordinary shares, respectively (prior to their sale of a portion of their shares in the secondary component of the offering that closed on March 26, 2014). Although Viola-LM and XT Hi-Tech purchased our shares separately and have not entered into any voting agreement between themselves with respect to our shares, if Viola-LM and XT Hi-Tech vote the shares that they own or control together, they will be able to significantly influence the outcome of matters required to be submitted to our shareholders for approval, including decisions relating to the election of our board of directors and the outcome of any proposed merger or consolidation of our company. Their interests may not be consistent with those of our other shareholders. In addition, these parties’ significant interest in us may discourage third parties from seeking to acquire control of us, which may adversely affect the market price of our ordinary B shares. 28 As a foreign private issuer, we are permitted, and intend, to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of otherwise applicable SEC and NASDAQ requirements, which may result in less protection than is accorded to investors under rules applicable to domestic U.S. issuers. We are a “foreign private issuer,” as such term is defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, and therefore, we are not required to comply with all the periodic disclosure and current reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and related rules and regulations. Under Rule 405, the determination of foreign private issuer status is made annually on the last business day of an issuer’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter and, accordingly, the next determination will be made with respect to us on June 30, 2014. As a foreign private issuer, we are permitted to, and do, follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of those otherwise required under the Listing Rules of the NASDAQ Global Select Market, or the NASDAQ Listing Rules, for domestic U.S. issuers. For instance, we follow home country practice in Israel with regard to the quorum requirement for shareholder meetings. As permitted under the Israel Companies Law 5759-1999, or the Companies Law, under our amended and restated articles of association, the quorum for any meeting of shareholders is the presence of at least two shareholders present in person, by proxy or by a voting instrument, who hold at least 25% of the voting power of our shares instead of 33 1/3% of the issued share capital requirement. We also follow the requirements of the Companies Law with respect to shareholder approval of change of control transactions rather than the NASDAQ Listing Rules that address issuances of securities that will result in a change of control of our company (as defined by NASDAQ). We may in the future elect to follow home country practices in Israel with regard to other matters, including the formation of a compensation committee, nominating of directors, separate executive sessions of independent directors and the requirement to obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events (such as for the establishment or amendment of certain equity-based compensation plans, certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of a 20% or more interest in the company and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company). Following our home country governance practices as opposed to the requirements that would otherwise apply to a United States company listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market may provide less protection to you than what is accorded to investors under the NASDAQ Listing Rules applicable to domestic United States issuers. In addition, as a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from the rules and regulations under the Exchange Act related to the furnishing and content of proxy statements, and our officers, directors and principal shareholders will be exempt from the reporting and short swing profit recovery provisions contained in Section 16 of the Exchange Act. In addition, we are not required under the Exchange Act to file annual and current reports and financial statements with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as U.S. domestic companies whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act and we are generally exempt from filing quarterly reports with the SEC under the Exchange Act. These exemptions and leniencies reduce the frequency and scope of information and protections to which you are entitled as an investor. We would lose our foreign private issuer status if a majority of our directors or executive officers are U.S. citizens or residents and we fail to meet additional requirements necessary to avoid loss of foreign private issuer status. Although we have elected to comply with certain U.S. regulatory provisions, our loss of foreign private issuer status would make such provisions mandatory. The regulatory and compliance costs to us under U.S. securities laws as a U.S. domestic issuer may be significantly higher. If we are not a foreign private issuer, we will be required to file periodic reports and registration statements on U.S. domestic issuer forms with the SEC, which are more detailed and extensive than the forms available to a foreign private issuer. We may also be required to modify certain of our policies to comply with good governance practices associated with U.S. domestic issuers. Such conversion and modifications will involve additional costs. In addition, we may lose our ability to rely upon exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements on U.S. stock exchanges that are available to foreign private issuers. 29 We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company and, as a result, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences. Generally, if (taking into account certain look-through rules with respect to the income and assets of our subsidiaries) for any taxable year 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or at least 50% of our assets are held for the production of, or produce, passive income, we would be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, to which we refer as a PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Such a characterization could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to our U.S. shareholders, including having gains realized on the sale of our ordinary B shares be treated as ordinary income, as opposed to capital gain, and having interest charges apply to such sale proceeds. Because the value of our gross assets is likely to be determined in large part by reference to our market capitalization, a decline in the value of our ordinary B shares may result in our becoming a PFIC. U.S. shareholders should consult with their own U.S. tax advisors with respect to the U.S. tax consequences of investing in our ordinary B shares. Based upon our calculations, we believe that we were not a PFIC in 2013. However, PFIC status is determined as of the end of the taxable year and depends on a number of factors, including the value of a corporation’s assets and the amount and type of its gross income. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for fiscal year 2014 or in any future year. We have broad discretion as to the use of the net proceeds from the offering and may not use them effectively. We cannot specify with certainty the particular uses to which we will put the net proceeds from the offering. Our management has broad discretion in the application of the net proceeds. Our shareholders may not agree with the manner in which our management chooses to allocate the net proceeds from the offering. The failure by our management to apply these funds effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Pending their use, we may invest the net proceeds from the offering in a manner that does not produce income. We have never paid cash dividends on our share capital, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Therefore, if our share price does not appreciate, our investors may not gain and could potentially lose on their investment in our ordinary B shares. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our share capital, nor do we anticipate paying any cash dividends on our share capital in the foreseeable future. Moreover, under the Restructuring Agreement, we are restricted from issuing dividends unless certain conditions are satisfied. As a result, we currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. Capital appreciation, if any, of our ordinary B shares will be investors’ sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. Under the Companies Law, dividends may only be paid out of our profits and other surplus funds (as defined in the Companies Law) as of the end of the most recent year or as accrued over a period of the most recent two years, whichever amount is greater, provided that there is no reasonable concern that payment of a dividend will prevent us from satisfying our existing and foreseeable obligations as they become due. In the event that we do not meet the profit and surplus funds criteria, we are able to seek the approval of an Israeli court in order to distribute a cash dividend. The court may approve our request if it is convinced that there is no reasonable concern that the payment of a dividend will prevent us from satisfying our existing and foreseeable obligations as they become due. In general, the payment of dividends may be subject to Israeli withholding taxes. In addition, because we receive certain benefits under the Israeli law relating to “Approved Enterprises” (as described under “Taxation — Israeli Tax Considerations and Government Programs — Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments”), our payment of dividends (out of tax-exempt income) may subject us to certain Israeli taxes to which we would not otherwise be subject. 