Item 1A. Risk Factors There are various risks associated with investing in any common stock issued by SGRP ("SGRP Common Stock") that are more fully described below. You should carefully consider each of those risk factors before you purchase or trade any of SGRP Common Stock. If any of the described risks develops into actual events, or any other risks arise and develop into actual events, the Company's present or future business, income, growth or other Condition and Results could be materially and adversely affected (in whole or in part), the market price of the SGRP Common Stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment in your SGRP Common Stock. The Company has described the risk factors that it currently consider material based on its best estimates respecting those risk factors, our current and future business, income, growth or other Condition and Results, the likelihood of those risks developing into actual events and the likely impact of those events on our business, income, growth or other Condition and Results, which all involve and include "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of applicable Securities Law (as discussed above). The Company also may be facing additional risks individually, and the merchandising service industry or the economy may be facing additional risks, whether domestically or internationally, that are currently unknown to the Company, that are more material or otherwise different than the Company currently believes, or that the Company may have incorrectly analyzed (whether as to the nature or likelihood of such risks or their potential effect on its business, income, growth or other Condition and Results). As a potential investor, there also may be risks that you would consider more material than our view of it. Whether or not described in a risk factor, any event could at any time arise, change or worsen and materially and adversely effect the Company or any of its business, income, growth or other Condition and Results. - 10 - Accordingly, the Company's risk factors and forward-looking statements each involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, potential errors and misjudgments and other factors that could materially and adversely affect, and could contribute to our failure to achieve or realize, in whole or in part, the Company's estimated or desired business, income, growth or other Condition and Results, whether as expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. The Company does not intend or promise, and the Company expressly disclaims any obligation, to update or revise any forward-looking statements or any of those risk factors (in whole or in part), whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as and to the extent required by applicable law. Dependency on Largest Customer and Large Retail Chains As discussed above in “Customer Base”, the Company does a significant amount of business with a leading drug store chain and a leading mass merchandising chain. The loss of any of these customers, the loss of the ability to provide merchandising and marketing services in those chains, or the failure to attract new large clients could significantly decrease the Company’s revenues and such decreased revenues could have a material adverse effect on the Company or its estimated or desired business, income, growth or other Condition and Results. Dependence on Trend Toward Outsourcing The business and growth of the Company depends in large part on the continued trend toward outsourcing of merchandising and marketing services, which the Company believes has resulted from the consolidation of retailers and manufacturers, as well as the desire to seek outsourcing specialists and reduce fixed operation expenses. There can be no assurance that this trend in outsourcing will continue, as companies may elect to perform such services internally. A significant change in the direction of this trend generally, or a trend in the retail, manufacturing or business services industry not to use, or to reduce the use of, outsourced marketing services such as those provided by the Company, could significantly decrease the Company’s revenues and such decreased revenues could have a material adverse effect on the Company or its estimated or desired business, income, growth or other Condition and Results. Failure to Successfully Compete The merchandising and marketing services industry is highly competitive and the Company has competitors that are larger (or part of larger holding companies) and may be better financed. In addition, the Company competes with: (i) a large number of relatively small enterprises with specific client, channel or geographic coverage; (ii) the internal merchandising and marketing operations of its clients and prospective clients; (iii) independent brokers; and (iv) smaller regional providers. Remaining competitive in the highly competitive merchandising and marketing services industry requires that the Company monitor and respond to trends in all industry sectors. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to anticipate and respond successfully to such trends in a timely manner. If the Company is unable to successfully compete, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company or its estimated or desired business, income, growth or other Condition and Results. If certain competitors were to combine into integrated merchandising and marketing services companies, or additional merchandising and marketing service companies were to enter into this market, or existing participants in this industry were to become more competitive, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company or its estimated or desired business, income, growth or other Condition and Results. Risks of Continuing Losses and Financial Covenant Violations The Company was profitable in both 2009 and in 2008 (See Item 8 – Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). The Company was in compliance of all its bank covenants in 2009 and with the exception of only one violation of its monthly Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio covenant recorded in April 2008, for which the Company had received a waiver, it was in compliance of all its covenants in 2008 as well. (See Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Liquidity and Capital Resources). There can be no assurances that in the future the Company: will be profitable, will not violate covenants of its current or future Credit Facilities, its lenders would waive any violations of such covenants, the Company will continue to have adequate lines of credit, or will continue to have sufficient availability under its lines of credit. Accordingly, continued losses or marginal profitability by the Company, as well as any failure to maintain sufficient availability or lines of credit from the Company’s lenders, could have a material adverse effect on the Company or its estimated or desired business, income, growth or other Condition and Results. - 11 - Variability of Operating Results and Uncertainty in Client Revenue The Company has experienced and, in the future, may experience fluctuations in quarterly operating results. Factors that may cause the Company’s quarterly operating results to vary from time to time and may result in reduced revenue and profits include: (i) the number of active client projects; (ii) seasonality of client products; (iii) client delays, changes and cancellations in projects; (iv) the timing requirements of client projects; (v) the completion of major client projects; (vi) the timing of new engagements; (vii) the timing of personnel cost increases; and (viii) the loss of major clients. In particular, the timing of revenues is difficult to forecast for the home entertainment industry because timing is dependent on the commercial success of particular product releases. In the event that a particular release is not wi dely accepted by the public, the Company’s revenue could be significantly reduced. In addition, the Company is subject to revenue or profit uncertainties resulting from factors such as unprofitable client work and the failure of clients to pay. The Company attempts to mitigate these risks by dealing primarily with large credit-worthy clients, by entering into written or oral agreements with its clients and by using project budgeting systems. These revenue fluctuations could materially and adversely affect the Company or its estimated or desired business, income, growth or other Condition and Results. Failure to Develop New Products A key element of the Company’s growth strategy is the development and sale of new products. While several new products are under current development, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully develop and market new products. The Company’s inability or failure to devise useful merchandising or marketing products or to complete the development or implementation of a particular product for use on a large scale, or the failure of such products to achieve market acceptance, could adversely affect the Company’s ability to achieve a significant part of its growth strategy and the absence of such growth could have a material adverse effect on the Company or its estimated or desired business, income, growth or other Condition and Results or growth strategy and could limit the Company’s abil ity to significantly increase its revenues and profits. Inability to Identify, Acquire and Successfully Integrate Acquisitions Another key component of the Company’s growth strategy is the acquisition of businesses across the United States and worldwide that offer similar merchandising or marketing services. The successful implementation of this strategy depends upon the Company’s ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, acquire such businesses on acceptable terms, finance the acquisition and integrate their operations successfully with those of the Company. There can be no assurance that such candidates will be available or, if such candidates are available, that the price will be attractive or that the Company will be able to identify, acquire, finance or integrate such businesses successfully. In addition, in pursuing such acquisition opportunities, the Company may compete with other entities with similar growth strategies, these co mpetitors may be larger and have greater financial and other resources than the Company. Competition for these acquisition targets could also result in increased prices of acquisition targets and/or a diminished pool of companies available for acquisition. The successful integration of these acquisitions also may involve a number of additional risks, including: (i) the inability to retain the clients of the acquired business; (ii) the lingering effects of poor client relations or service performance by the acquired business, which also may taint the Company’s existing businesses; (iii) the inability to retain the desirable management, key personnel and other employees of the acquired business; (iv) the inability to fully realize the desired efficiencies and economies of scale; (v) the inability to establish, implement or police the Company’s existing standards, controls, procedures and policies on the acquired business; (vi) diversion of management attention; and (vii) exposure to client, employee and other legal claims for activities of the acquired business prior to acquis ition. In addition, any acquired business could perform significantly worse than expected. The inability to identify, acquire, finance and successfully integrate such merchandising or marketing services business could have a material adverse effect on the Company or its estimated or desired business, income, growth or other Condition and Results. Uncertainty of Financing for, and Dilution Resulting from, Future Acquisitions The timing, size and success of acquisition efforts and any associated capital commitments cannot be readily predicted. Future acquisitions may be financed by issuing shares of the Company’s Common Stock, cash, or a combination of Common Stock and cash. If the Company’s Common Stock does not maintain a sufficient market value, or if potential acquisition candidates are otherwise unwilling to accept the Company’s Common Stock as part of the consideration for the sale of their businesses, the Company may be required to obtain additional capital through debt or - 12 - equity financings. To the extent the Company’s Common Stock is used for all or a portion of the consideration to be paid for future acquisitions, dilution may be experienced by existing stockholders. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain the additional financing it may need for its acquisitions on terms that the Company deems acceptable. Failure to obtain such capital would materially and adversely affect the Company or its estimated or desired business, income, growth or other Condition and Results. Reliance on the Internet and Third Party Vendors The Company relies on the Internet for the scheduling, coordination and reporting of its merchandising and marketing services. The Internet has experienced, and is expected to continue to experience, significant growth in the numbers of users and amount of traffic as well as increased attacks by hackers and other saboteurs. To the extent that the Internet continues to experience increased numbers of users, frequency of use or increased bandwidth requirements of users, there can be no assurance that the Internet infrastructure will continue to be able to support the demands placed on the Internet by this continued growth or that the performance or reliability of the Internet will not be adversely affected. Furthermore, the Internet has experienced a variety of outages and other delays as a result of accidental and intentional damage to portions of its infrastructure, and could face such outages and delays in the future of similar or greater effect. The Company relies on third-party vendors to provide its Internet access and other services used in its business, and the Company has no control over such third-party providers. Any protracted disruption or material slowdown in Internet or other services could increase the Company’s costs of operation and reduce efficiency and performance, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company or its estimated or desired business, income, growth or other Condition and Results. Economic and Retail Uncertainty The markets in which the Company operates are cyclical and subject to the effects of economic downturns. The current political, social and economic conditions, including the impact of terrorism on consumer and business behavior, make it difficult for the Company, its vendors and its clients to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. Substantially all of the Company’s key clients are either retailers or those seeking to do product merchandising at retailers. Should the retail industry experience a significant economic downturn, the resultant reduction in product sales could significantly decrease the Company’s revenues. The Company also has risks associated with its clients changing their business plans and/or reducing their marketing budgets in response to economic conditions, which could also significantl y decrease the Company’s revenues. Such revenue decreases could have a material adverse effect on the Company or its estimated or desired business, income, growth or other Condition and Results. Risks Associated with Furniture and Other Related Assembly Services The Company's technicians assemble furniture and other products in the homes and offices of customers. Working at a customer's home or office could give rise to claims against the Company for errors, omissions or misconduct by those technicians, including (without limitation) harassment, personal injury, death, damage to or theft of customer property, or other civil or criminal misconduct by such technicians. Claims also could be made against the Company as a result of its involvement in such assembly services due to (among other things) product assembly errors and omissions, product defects, deficiencies, breakdowns or collapse, products that are not merchantable or fit for their particular purpose, products that do not conform to published specifications or satisfy customer expectations, or products that cause personal i njury, death or property damage, in each case whether actual, alleged or perceived by customers, and irrespective of how much time may have passed since such assembly. If such claims are asserted and adversely determined against the Company, then to the extent such claims are not covered by indemnification from the product’s seller or manufacturer by insurance, they could have a material adverse effect on the Company or its estimated or desired business, income, growth or other Condition and Results. Significant Stockholders: Voting Control and Market Illiquidity Mr. Robert G. Brown, founder, director, Chairman of the Company, beneficially owns approximately 48% of the Company’s outstanding Common and Preferred Stock, and Mr. William H. Bartels, founder, director, and Vice Chairman of the Company, beneficially owns approximately 28% of the Company’s outstanding Common and Preferred Stock. These stockholders have, should they choose to act together, and under certain circumstances Mr. Brown acting alone may have, the ability to control all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers and other business combination transactions. - 13 - In addition, although the Company Common Stock is quoted on the Nasdaq Capital Market, the trading volume in such stock may be limited and an investment in the Company’s securities may be illiquid because the founders own a significant amount of the Company’s stock. Dependence Upon and Potential Conflicts in Services Provided by Affiliates The success of the Company’s domestic business is dependent upon the successful execution of its field services by SPAR Marketing Services, Inc. (“SMS”), and SPAR Management Services, Inc. (“SMSI”), as well as the programming services provided by SPAR Infotech, Inc. (“SIT”), each of which is an affiliate, but not a subsidiary, of the Company, and none of which is consolidated in the Company’s financial statements. SMS provides substantially all of the merchandising specialists used by the Company in conducting its domestic business (82% of domestic field expense in 2009), and SMSI provides substantially all of the domestic field management services (91% of domestic field management in 2009) used by the Company i n conducting its business (See Item 13 – Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence, and Note 9 – Related Party Transactions, below). These services provided to the Company by SMS and SMSI are on a cost-plus basis pursuant to contracts that are cancelable on 60 days notice prior to December 31 of each year or with 180 days notice at any other time (SMS service agreement terminates on December 31, 2010). SIT provides substantially all of the Internet programming services and other computer programming needs used by the Company in conducting its business (See Item 13 – Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence, and Note 9 – Related Party Transactions, below), which are provided to the Company by SIT on an hourly charge basis pursuant to a contract that is cancelable on 30 days notice. The Company has determined that the services provided by SMS, SMSI and SIT are at rates that are slightly favorable to the Company. SMS, SMSI and SIT (collectively, the “SPAR Affiliates”) are owned solely by Mr. Robert G. Brown, founder, director, Chairman of the Company, and Mr. William H. Bartels, founder, director, and Vice Chairman of the Company, each of whom are also directors and executive officers of each of the SPAR Affiliates (See Item 13 – Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence, and Note 9 – Related Party Transactions, below). In the event of any dispute in the business relationships between the Company and one or more of the SPAR Affiliates, it is possible that Messrs. Brown and Bartels may have one or more conflicts of interest with respect to those relationships and could cause one or more of the SPAR Affiliates to renegotiate or ca ncel their contracts with the Company or otherwise act in a way that is not in the Company’s best interests. While the Company’s relationships with SMS, SMSI and SIT are excellent, there can be no assurance that the Company could (if necessary under the circumstances) replace the field merchandising specialists and management currently provided by SMS and SMSI, respectively, or replace the Internet and other computer programming services provided by SIT, in sufficient time to perform its client obligations or at such favorable rates in the event the SPAR Affiliates no longer performed those services. Any cancellation, other nonperformance or material pricing increase under those affiliate contracts could have a material adverse effect on the Company or its estimated or desired business, income, growth or other Condition and Results. Specific Stock Related Risks (No Dividends Paid, Dilution, etc.) Dividends are discretionary, have never been paid, are subject to restrictions in our credit facilities and applicable law and can only be paid to the holders of SGRP Common Stock if the accrued and unpaid dividends and potential dividends are first paid to the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock. While the Company's recently issued Preferred Stock accrues a 10% dividend payable in either cash or common stock when authorized by the Board, the Company does not anticipate paying such dividend, in cash, in the foreseeable future. In the event of the Company's liquidation, dissolution, or winding-up, the holders of SGRP Common Stock are only entitled to share in the Company's assets, if any, that remain after we make payment of and provision for all of our debts and liabilities and the liquidation preferences of all of the Company's outstanding Preferred Stock. There can be no assurance that sufficient funds will remain in any such case for dividends or distributions to the holders of SGRP Common Stock. The Company may issue SGRP Common Stock or options, warrants or other rights to acquire SGRP Common Stock at varying prices from time to time. As part of an option repricing program, the Company recently issued options to acquire 1,703,740 shares of SGRP Common Stock at $0.40 per share as and when exercised. In addition, the Company may issue shares of SGRP Common Stock or options, warrants or other rights to acquire SGRP Common Stock in the future in furtherance of its acquisitions, financing or development of its business or assets. Each of those and other issuances of SGRP Common Stock could have a dilutive effect on the value of your shares, depending on the price the Company is paid (or the value of the assets or business acquired) for such shares, market conditions at the time and other factors.< /font> - 14 - Risks related to SGRP Preferred Stock Our ability to issue or redeem our Preferred Stock, or rights to purchase such shares, could discourage an unsolicited acquisition proposal. For example, we could impede a business combination by issuing a series of preferred stock containing class voting rights that would enable the holders of such preferred stock to block a business combination transaction. Alternatively, we could facilitate a business combination transaction by issuing a series of preferred stock having sufficient voting rights to provide a required percentage vote of the stockholders. Additionally, under certain circumstances, our issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect the voting power of the holders of our common stock. Although our board of directors is required to make any determination to issue any prefer red stock based on its judgment as to the best interests of our stockholders, our board of directors could act in a manner that would discourage an acquisition attempt or other transaction that some, or a majority, of our stockholders might believe to be in their best interests or in which stockholders might receive a premium for their stock over prevailing market prices of such stock. Our board of directors does not at present intend to seek stockholder approval prior to any issuance of currently authorized stock, unless otherwise required by law or applicable stock exchange requirements. Risks of a Nasdaq Delisting: SGRP Common Stock has recently traded and could in the future again trade for less than $1.00 per share, which is below Nasdaq's minimum trading price for continued listing on the Nasdaq stock market. The Company received a notice from Nasdaq on September 16, 2009, advising the Company of that it failed to maintain a minimum closing bid price of $1.00 per share for its shares of Common Stock for the prior 30 consecutive business days as required by Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(a)(2) (known as the "Bid Price Rule"), and that it had a 180 day grace period in which to regain compliance with the Bid Price Rule by maintaining a closing bid price of $1.00 per share for SGRP Common Stock for a minimum of ten consecutive business days. On December 1, 2009, the Company received notice from Nasdaq that it had regained complian ce with the Bid Price Rule and the matter was closed. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to comply in the future with Nasdaq's Bid Price Rule or other continued listing requirements. If the SGRP Common Stock were ultimately delisted by Nasdaq, the market liquidity of SGRP Common Stock could be adversely affected and its market price could decrease, even though such shares may continue to be traded "over the counter", due to (among other things) the potential for increased spreads between bids and asks, lower trading volumes and reporting delays in over-the-counter trades and the negative implications and perceptions that could arise from such a delisting. Risks Associated with International Subsidiaries While the Company endeavors to limit its exposure for claims and losses in any international subsidiary through contractual provisions, insurance and use of single purpose entities for such ventures, there can be no assurance that the Company will not be held liable for the claims against and losses of a particular international subsidiary under applicable local law or local interpretation of any subsidiary agreements or insurance provisions. If any such claims and losses should occur, be material in amount and be successfully asserted against the Company, such claims and losses could have a material adverse effect on the Company or its estimated or desired business, income, growth or other Condition and Results. Risks of Having Material Local Investors in International Subsidiaries The Company’s international model is to partner with local merchandising companies and combine their knowledge of the local market with the Company’s proprietary software and expertise in the merchandising business. As a result, each of the Company's international subsidiaries (other than Canada, Japan and China) is owned in material part by an entity in the local country where the international subsidiary resides and is not otherwise affiliated with the Company (each a "Local Stockholder"). The joint venture agreements between the Company and the Local Stockholder in the respective international subsidiaries specify, among other things, the equity, programming and support services the Company is required to provide and the equity, credit support, certain services and management support that the Local Stockholder is required to provide to the international subsidiary. In the event of any disagreement or other dispute in the business relationships between the Company and Local Stockholder, it is possible that the Local Stockholder may have one or more conflicts of interest with respect to the relationship and could cause the applicable international subsidiary to operate or otherwise act in a way that is not in the Company’s best interests. The joint venture agreements generally have unlimited contract terms and parties generally do not have the right to unilaterally withdraw. However, a non-defaulting party has the right to terminate such agreement upon the other party's default, receipt of notice and failure to cure within a specified period (generally 60 days). In addition, either - 15 - party, at any time after the end of a specified period (usually between three and five years), may: (1) sell all or part of its equity interest in the international subsidiary to a third party by providing a written notice to the other party of such intentions (in which case the other party has the right of first refusal and may purchase the equity of the offering partner under the same terms and conditions) (a "Right of First Refusal"); or (2) offer to purchase the equity of the other party (in which case the other party has 120 days to either accept or reject the offer or to reverse the transaction and actually purchase the offering partners equity under the same terms and conditions) (a "Buy/Sell Right"). The Company believes its relationships with the Local Stockholders in its international subsidiaries remain good. Several of the company’s respective international subsidiary contracts are either at or near the end of the applicable periods during which either of the parties may trigger the Right of First Refusal and Buy/Sell provisions described above. Both the Company and such Local Stockholders, as part of their ongoing relationship, are or will be assessing appropriate action as described above. There can be no assurance that the Company could (if necessary under the circumstances) replace equity, credit support, management and other services currently provided by any Local Stockholder in sufficient time to perform its client obligations or that the Company could provide these services and or equity in the event the Local Stockholder was to sell its stock or reduce any support to the Company’s subsidiary in the applicable country. Any cancellation, other nonperformance or material change under the joint venture agreements with Local Stockholders could have a material adverse effect on the Company or its estimated or desired business, income, growth or other Condition and Results. Risks Associated with Foreign Currency The Company also has foreign currency exposure associated with its international subsidiaries. In 2009, these exposures are primarily concentrated in the Canadian Dollar, Japanese Yen, and Australian Dollar. Risks Associated with International Business The Company’s expansion strategy includes expansion into various countries around the world. While the Company endeavors to limit its exposure by entering only countries where the political, social and economic environments are conducive to doing business, there can be no assurances that the respective business environments will remain favorable. In the future, the Company’s international operations and sales may be affected by the following risks, which may adversely affect United States companies doing business in foreign countries: • Political and economic risks, including political instability; • Various forms of protectionist trade legislation that currently exist, or have been proposed; • Expenses associated with customizing products; • Local laws and business practices that favor local competition; • Dependence on local vendors; • Multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations; • Potentially adverse tax consequences; • Local accounting principles, practices and procedures and limited familiarity with US GAAP; • Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; • Communication barriers, including those arising from language, culture, custom and times zones; and • Supervisory challenges arising from distance, physical absences and such communication barriers. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Staff of the SEC has reviewed the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, as filed on April 15, 2009, and has exchanged comment letters and responses with the Company, which have resolved most of the comments. However, the SEC Staff continues to question the Company's financial reporting of its international division and suggest that its international division be treated as a completely separate business segment for reporting purposes, while the Company continues to believe its domestic and international business are in the same merchandising service segment and more than the required disclosures are already being made. The Company most recently responded to the SEC staff on April 9, 2010, explaining and defending its reporting position. 