Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Future results and the market price for the Company’s common shares are subject to numerous risks, many of which are driven by factors that cannot be controlled or predicted. The following discussion, as well as other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including “Item 7. – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” describe certain business risks. Consideration should be given to the risk factors described below as well as those in the Safe Harbor Statement at the beginning of this Form 10-K, in conjunction with reviewing the forward-looking statements and other information contained in this Form 10-K. 5 Table of Contents A significant portion of our revenues from product sales and services are dependent on significant customers and specific industries. Sales to Sun and Citrix combined accounted for approximately 43% and 19% of our fiscal 2006 and 2005 revenues. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, sales directly to Sun accounted for 20%, 9% and 8% of our total net revenues, respectively. Sales to Citrix accounted for 23%, 10% and 0% of our fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004 total net revenues, respectively. A significant reduction in sales to either customer, or significant pricing and additional margin pressures exerted on us by either customer, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, if either customer delays or cancels purchases of our products, our operating results would be harmed and our ability to accurately predict revenues, profitability and cash flows would decrease. In addition, we are dependent on the computer and networks, telecommunications, medical and imaging industries for a significant portion of our revenues. Our revenues are directly dependent on the level of capital spending for technology in the U.S. and international economies. If spending for technology declines in any of these industries over an extended period of time, it would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our future success in business strategy is dependent upon our ability to generate significant revenues from world-leading OEMs and ISVs development relationships. We believe we must continue to diversify our revenues, and a major component of our business strategy is to form product and services development relationships with world-leading OEMs and ISVs. We market our customized services and products to specific customers and niche-industries. This reduces competition from larger CMs because of the costs involved for them to run the smaller manufacturing volumes typical of these orders. The level of engineering complexity and after-the-sale service and support on some products reduce competition for VARs of all levels of size and geographic coverage. We believe we differentiate ourselves from other competitors through the strength of our close relationships with our very large OEM partners (Sun, Intel, AMD, HP and others), our ability to offer and deliver complete turnkey solutions in relatively short development cycles, our unique product set and our full service-after-the-sale offering. Our future success will depend on our ability to establish relationships with new customers, as well as expanding sales to our existing customers. If we are unable to expand our sales to existing customers and develop relationships with new customers, our revenues and operating results could suffer. If we are unable to grow our international revenues and successfully overcome the risks inherent in international business activities, the growth of our business may be limited. The Company’s ability to grow will depend in part on the growth of its international revenues. If our professional services around the development, deployment and support of sophisticated computer systems are not accepted across international regions, our ability to increase our revenues in this region would be limited. In addition, our international sales are subject to the risks inherent in international business activities, including: • cost of customizing products for foreign countries; • export and import restrictions, such as those affecting encryption commodities and software or those requiring local content; • difficulties in providing customer support; • reduced protection of intellectual property rights and increased liability exposure; • regional economic and political conditions; and • unique product requirements of certain foreign countries which may limit sales and/or require significant additional research and development investments. The majority of our international sales currently are U.S. dollar-denominated. As a result, any increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies makes our products less competitive in international markets. Because of this our revenues may be adversely affected, or we may be required to denominate more of our sales in foreign currencies at some point in the future to remain competitive. In addition, because certain of our operating expenses related to our international sales are denominated in foreign currency, we may have difficulty controlling expenses in the event of significant currency fluctuations. 6 Table of Contents If our estimates or judgments relating to our critical accounting policies are based on assumptions that change or prove to be incorrect, our operating results could fall below expectations of investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based on our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate significant estimates used in preparing our financial statements, including those related to: • revenue recognition • inventory write-downs • accounts receivable collections • termination accruals • income tax accruals • stock-based compensation; and • warranty reserves. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, as provided in our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these and other estimates if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our operating results to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. Our quarterly revenues and operating results may fluctuate which could cause our results from operations to fall below expectations and thus impact the market price of our common stock. Our quarterly revenues and operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. None of our customers are obligated to purchase any quantity of our products in the future nor are they obligated to meet forecasts of their product needs. Our operating expense levels are based in part on expectations of future revenues and gross profits, which are partially dependent on our customers’ ability to accurately forecast and communicate their future product needs. If revenues or gross profits in a particular quarter do not meet expectations, operating results could suffer and the market price of our common stock could decline. Factors affecting quarterly operating results include: • the timing and size of orders from customers, particularly our largest customers; • the product mix of our sales; • the timing of new product introductions by our OEM customers; • the availability and/or price of products from suppliers; • the loss of key suppliers or customers; • price competition; Competition in professional services around the development, deployment and support of sophisticated computer systems market is significant and if we fail to compete effectively, our financial results will suffer. In the market of custom-engineered computer system products, we face significant competition from a number of different types of sources. Our competition includes: (1) other CMs that provide similar engineering and manufacturing services, (2) other VARs and (3) less expensive off-the-shelf products. Many of these companies are larger than we are and have greater financial resources and name recognition than we do, as well as significant distribution capabilities and larger, more established service organizations to support their products. Our larger competitors may be able to leverage their existing resources, including their extensive distribution capabilities and service organizations, to provide a wider offering of products and services and higher levels of support on a more cost-effective basis than we can. If we fail to compete successfully in this market, the demand for our product and services would decrease. Customers make buying decisions based on many factors, including among other things, product performance and quality; availability and quality of support and other services; price; interoperability; ease of doing business; a vendor’s ability to adapt to customers’ changing requirements; responsiveness; contractual terms and conditions; vendor reputation and vendor viability. As competition increases, each factor on which we compete becomes more important and the lack of competitive advantage with respect to one or more of these factors could lead to a loss of competitive position, resulting in fewer customer orders, reduced revenues, reduced margins, reduced levels of profitability and loss of market share. These competitive pressures could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. 7 Table of Contents Reliance on a single source supplier could delay product shipments and increase our costs. We depend on many suppliers for the necessary parts and components to manufacture and repair products. There are a number of vendors producing the parts and component that we need. However during fiscal year 2006, we purchased approximately 13% of all inventory directly from Sun or through Sun’s distribution channel. We believe all critical production components and service parts, or suitable substitutes, are readily available in the marketplace from multiple manufacturers and/or suppliers, new or refurbished, as required by our current customers’ demands. If we were unable to purchase on acceptable terms or experienced significant delays or quality issues in the delivery of necessary parts and/or components from a particular vendor and we had to find a new supplier for these parts and components, our new and existing product or repair shipments could be delayed which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our products may have quality issues that could adversely affect our sales and reputation. In the course of conducting our business, we experience and address quality issues. Some of our products and repairs contain defects, including defects in our engineering, design and manufacturing processes, as well as defects in third-party components included in repair or product builds, which may be beyond our control. Often defects are identified during our design, development and manufacturing processes and we are able to correct many of these. When a quality issue is identified, we work extensively with our customers to remedy such issues. We may test the affected product to determine the root cause of the problem and to determine appropriate solutions. If we are unable to determine the root cause or find an appropriate solution, we may delay shipment to customers. Defects in our repair or product builds can harm our reputation, delay or prevent sales, result in significant expense and could materially and adversely affect our business. If we fail to attract and retain appropriate levels of qualified employees and members of senior management, we may not be able to successfully execute our business strategy. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled engineering, sales, customer service, and managerial personnel. If we are unable to attract a sufficient number of qualified personnel, particularly personnel knowledgeable in software engineering and product management, we may not be able to meet key objectives such as developing, upgrading, or producing our repair and product builds in a timely manner, which could negatively impact our business and could hinder any future growth. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could have a negative market reaction. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting starting in 2008 with management’s report on internal controls required for the 2007 fiscal year. We are in the process of establishing a program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements. As a result, we will incur increased expense and will devote additional management resources to Section 404 compliance. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our business and operating results could be harmed. If the site of our production and service operations were to experience a significant disruption in its operations, it would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our production and service facilities and headquarters are located in two buildings within two miles of each other. If the operations in either facility were disrupted as a result of a natural disaster, fire, power or other utility outage, work stoppage or other similar event, our business could be seriously harmed as a result of interruptions or delays in our manufacturing, engineering, services or other post-sales support operations. 8 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 