Item 1A. Risk Factors In this report we make, and from time-to-time we otherwise make, written and oral statements regarding our business and prospects, such as projections of future performance, statements of management’s plans and objectives, forecasts of market trends, and other matters that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Statements containing the words or phrases “will likely result,” “are expected to,” “will continue,” “is anticipated,” “estimates,” “projects,” “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “target,” “goal,” “plans,” “objective,” “should” or similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which may appear in documents, reports, filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, news releases, written or oral presentations made by officers or other representatives made by us to analysts, stockholders, investors, news organizations and others, and discussions with management and other of our representatives. For such statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. 12 Table of Contents Our future results, including results related to forward-looking statements, involve a number of risks and uncertainties. No assurance can be given that the results reflected in any forward-looking statements will be achieved. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made. Our forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions that are sometimes based upon estimates, data, communications and other information from suppliers, government agencies and other sources that may be subject to revision. Except as required by law, we do not undertake any obligation to update or keep current either (i) any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances arising after the date of such statement, or (ii) the important factors that could cause our future results to differ materially from historical results or trends, results anticipated or planned by us, or which are reflected from time to time in any forward-looking statement. In addition to other matters identified or described by us from time to time in filings with the SEC, there are several important factors that could cause our future results to differ materially from historical results or trends, results anticipated or planned by us, or results that are reflected from time to time in any forward-looking statement. Some of these important factors, but not necessarily all important factors, include those set out below. We have a history of significant operating losses and anticipate continued operating losses for at least the near term. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, we have incurred net losses of $26,359,450 and $26,955,196, respectively, and our operations have used $6,955,397 and $30,096,613 of cash, respectively. As of December 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of $380,926,107. We expect to continue to experience negative cash flows from operations until such time as we are able to substantially increase revenues and control expenses to levels that will allow us to operate on a positive cash flow basis. While management will endeavor to generate positive cash flows from our placement of electronic gaming machines in Asia, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in generating positive cash flows from operations. Our revenues from our gaming machine participation operations are difficult to predict and may vary from our projections because the business model is new and the venues are not operated by us. Our primary focus now is on the ownership and leasing of gaming machines on a revenue sharing basis across certain countries in Asia. We focus on targeting venue owners in underserved gaming markets who have little or no gaming operations or experience. Since we participate on a revenue sharing basis with these venue owners, our revenue generated from the revenue sharing arrangements will be dependent to a significant degree on the efforts and capabilities of the venue owners. Our revenues and results from our gaming machine participation operations may be difficult to predict and may vary depending on the ability of the venue owners to manage the gaming operations of their venues. Accordingly, there can be no guarantee that the venue owners will be able to manage the gaming operations successfully or that the gaming venues operated by them will perform at levels consistent with our financial projections and underlying forecasts and assumptions. Further, we have very limited past business relationships with the venue operators and assume that the venue operators are reputable. In the event that any of the venue operators are not reputable this would expose us to the risk of being unable to collect the revenue to which we are entitled under the revenue share arrangements and protect our gaming machine assets. We could require additional funding in the future to continue to operate our business. As of December 31, 2009, we had working capital of approximately $7.4 million. Since December 31, 2009, our working capital has been reduced because of the payment of $2.74 million to NagaWorld in relation 13 Table of Contents to the Machines Operation and Participation Consolidation Agreement entered into on December 30, 2009. The $2.74 million payment represents the total of the remaining two installments which represented 50% of the $1.38 million one-time non-refundable contract amendment fee and the $4.1 million commitment fee for the placement of an additional 200 machines. Since December 31, 2009, our working capital has been positively affected by the inflow of cash from our operations at NagaWorld. We believe we have sufficient cash on hand to fulfill all current obligations as they become due. Based on our internal revenue projections, existing contemplated machine placement rollout plans and our inventory of electronic gaming machines, we believe we have the needed capital to fund our operations over the next twelve months. However, if our revenue projections fail to meet our existing internal projections, we are required to procure additional gaming machines for projects or due to reasons not currently contemplated, we would need to raise additional capital within the next twelve months. We would endeavor to raise funds through various financing sources, including the sale of our equity and debt securities and the procurement of commercial debt financing. However, there can be no guarantees that such funds will be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If such financing is not available on satisfactory terms, we may be unable to expand or continue our business as desired and operating results may be adversely affected. Any debt financing will increase expenses and must be repaid regardless of operating results and may involve restrictions limiting our operating flexibility. If we issue equity securities to raise additional funds, the following results can occur: · the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders will be reduced; · our stockholders may experience additional dilution in net book value per share; and/or · the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock. Our growth into markets outside the United States exposes us to risks inherent in international business operations. We intend to market our gaming machine participation business and sell our remaining line (excluding the portfolio of automated card verification machines and electronic card shuffling systems which we have sold to Shuffle Master pursuant to the Purchase and Settlement Agreement) of table game products outside the United States. We intend to focus our sales efforts for our table game products, namely the RFID and traditional non-RFID gaming chips and plaques, in Asia, Australia, and Europe but our international expansion efforts may not be successful. Our international operations expose us to risks and challenges that we would otherwise not face if we conducted our business only in the United States, such as: · increased cost of enforcing our intellectual property rights; · heightened price sensitivity from customers in emerging markets; · our ability to establish local manufacturing, support and service functions, and to form channel relationships with resellers in non-U.S. markets; · localization of our electronic gaming machines and components, including translation into foreign languages and the associated expenses; · compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations; · foreign currency fluctuations; · laws favoring local competitors; · weaker legal protections of contract terms, enforce recoveries of receivables and intellectual property rights and mechanisms for enforcing those rights; 14 Table of Contents · market disruptions created by public health crises in regions outside the United States, such as Avian flu, SARS and other diseases; · difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, including challenges presented by relationships with workers’ councils and labor unions; and · changing regional economic, political and regulatory conditions. We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights. Our success in businesses, in particular, in relation to our table game products and non-gaming business, is impacted by maintaining the confidentiality and proprietary nature of our intellectual property rights. Our ability to compete may be damaged, and our revenues may be reduced if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights adequately. To protect these rights, we rely principally on a combination of: · contractual arrangements providing for non-disclosure and prohibitions on use; · patents and pending patent applications; · trade secret, copyright and trademark laws; and · certain built-in technical product features. Patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark laws provide limited protection. The protections provided by laws governing intellectual property rights do not prevent our competitors from developing, independently, products similar or superior to our products and technologies. In addition, effective protection of copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks, and other proprietary rights may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries. We may be unaware of certain non-publicly available patent applications, which, if issued as patents, could relate to our services and products as currently designed or as we may modify them in the future. Legal or regulatory proceedings to enforce our patents, trademarks or copyrights could be costly, time consuming, and could divert the attention of management and technical personnel. It is possible that our table game products and/or, non-gaming products will be the subject of future patent litigation if the products are sold and installed in the United States and, if commenced, could subject us to continuing litigation costs and risks. To the extent that we introduce new products that incorporate the same or similar technology, it is likely that a competitor will bring one or more claims against us seeking damages, injunctive or other equitable relief, or both. We cannot predict the outcome of any present or future litigation that may occur. If our future products incorporate technologies that infringe the proprietary rights of third parties and we do not secure licenses from them, we could be liable for substantial damages that would cause a material reduction in revenues and impair our prospects for achieving growth and profitability. In furtherance of the development of our services or products, we may need to acquire licenses for intellectual property to avoid infringement of third-party rights or claims of infringement. These licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Claims for infringement, if made, could damage our business prospects, our results of operations and financial condition, whether or not the claims have merit, by: · consuming substantial time and financial resources required to defend against them; · diverting the attention of management from growing our business and managing operations; · resulting in costly litigation; and · disrupting product sales and shipments. 15 Table of Contents If any third party prevails in an action against us for infringement of its proprietary rights, we could be required to pay damages and either enter into costly licensing arrangements or redesign our products so as to exclude the infringing technology. As a result, we would incur substantial costs and delays in product development, sales and shipments, our revenues may decline substantially and we may not be able to achieve the growth required for us to achieve profitability. Elixir Group holds a significant interest in our common stock, giving Elixir Group the significant power over our management and all shareholder actions. As of March 15, 2010, Elixir Group owned 45.8 million shares of our common stock, representing approximately 40% of our issued and outstanding common shares, and has the right to acquire another 10 million common shares upon the exercise of outstanding common stock purchase warrants. Accordingly, Elixir Group has significant control over our management and all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the power to elect our board members and effect the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership will make it difficult for other shareholders to effect substantial changes in our company, and also will have the effect of delaying, preventing or expediting, as the case may be, a further change in control of our Company. Our common stock may be delisted from the NYSE Amex and if this occurs you may have difficulty converting your investment into cash efficiently. The NYSE Amex has established certain standards for the delisting of a security from the NYSE Amex. The standards for delisting from the stock market include, among other things, common stock selling for a substantial period of time at a low price per share, if the issuer fails to effect a reverse split of such shares within a reasonable time after being notified that the stock exchange deems such action to be appropriate. Our common stock has continuously traded below $1.00 since August 2008. While we have not received any communications to date from the NYSE Amex concerning the selling price of our common shares, there can be no assurance that the NYSE Amex will take action to delist our common stock from the exchange due to the low selling price of the shares. If that were to occur, we would consider effecting a reverse split of our common stock in order to raise our share price to a level satisfactory to the NYSE Amex. However, reverse splits of the thinly traded shares have, at times, resulted in declining share prices after a proportional adjustment in share price to give effect to the split. If our common stock were to be excluded from the NYSE Amex, or if we elected to conduct a reverse split in order to maintain the listing, the price of our common stock and the ability of holders to sell such stock could be materially adversely affected. Our board of directors may issue blank check preferred stock, which may affect the voting rights of our holders and could deter or delay an attempt to obtain control of us. Our board of directors is authorized, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock in series and to fix and state the voting rights and powers, designation, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights of the shares of each such series and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof. Preferred stock may rank prior to our common stock with respect to dividends rights, liquidation preferences, or both, and may have full or limited voting rights. Accordingly, issuance of shares of preferred stock could adversely affect the voting power of holders of our common stock and could have the effect of deterring or delaying an attempt to obtain control of us. The global recession has negatively impacted the demand for automobiles which, in turn, could make it difficult to collect on accounts receivables from our Dolphin subsidiary customers. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, we have reported net account receivables of $808,831 and $535,983, respectively, from the automotive segment of our Dolphin subsidiary. Due to the global recession and subsequent reduced demand for automobiles, many auto manufacturers, which include some of our Dolphin subsidiary’s customers, are experiencing financial and operating difficulties. These difficulties could impact our customers’ ability to pay us and our ability to collect on receivables due from these customers. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, our largest non-gaming customer, Futuris Automotive, accounted for 8% of the Company’s consolidated revenues. While no non-gaming customer accounts for over 10% of the Company’s consolidated revenues for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, the loss of any major customers could negatively impact the financial performance of the non-gaming segment and increase the risk of impairment on the long-lived assets and intangible assets. While the automotive parts industry has recently shown signs of stabilization, we believe it will remain volatile throughout 2010. 16 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 