ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The business of Barnwell and its subsidiaries face numerous risks, including those set forth below or those described elsewhere in this Form 10-K or in Barnwell’s other filings with the SEC. The risks described below are not the only risks that Barnwell faces, nor are they necessarily listed in order of significance. If any of the following risk factors should occur, our profitability, financial condition or liquidity could be materially impacted. Risks Related to Oil and Natural Gas Segment The oil and natural gas industry is highly competitive. We compete for capital, acquisitions of reserves, undeveloped lands, skilled personnel, access to drilling rigs, service rigs and other equipment, access to processing facilities, pipeline capacity and in many other respects with a substantial number of other organizations, many of which may have greater technical and financial resources than we do. Some of these organizations explore for, develop and produce oil and natural gas, carry on refining operations and market oil and other products on a worldwide basis. As a result of these complementary activities, some of our competitors may have competitive resources that are greater and more diverse than ours. Furthermore, many of our competitors may have a competitive advantage when responding to factors that affect demand for oil and natural gas production, such as changing prices and production levels, the cost an d availability of alternative fuels and the application of government regulations. If our competitors are able to capitalize on these competitive resources, it could adversely affect our revenues. 17 Table of Contents Oil and natural gas prices are volatile. Our results of operations and financial condition are highly dependent on the prices of and demand for our oil and natural gas production. Oil and natural gas prices are volatile and have fluctuated widely during recent years in response to many factors that are beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty, weather, worldwide political instability, foreign supply of oil and natural gas, the level of consumer product demand, government regulations and taxes, the price and availability of alternative fuels and the overall economic environment. Any decline in oil or natural gas prices may have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition, operating cash flows, borrowing ability, reserves, and the amount of capital that we are able to allocate for the development of oil and natural gas reserves and future growth. Energy prices are also subject to other political and regulatory actions outside our control, which may include changes in the policies of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries or other developments involving or affecting oil-producing countries, or actions or reactions of the government of the United States in anticipation of or in response to such developments. If oil and natural gas prices decrease, we may be required to reduce the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties. We follow the full cost method of accounting for costs related to our oil and natural gas properties. Under this method, the net book value of properties less related deferred income taxes, may not exceed a calculated “ceiling.” The ceiling is the estimated after tax future net revenues from proved oil and natural gas properties, discounted at 10% per year. In calculating discounted future net revenues, average first-day-of-the-month oil and natural gas prices during the 12-month period ending in the reporting period are held constant, except for changes which are fixed and determinable by existing contracts. The excess, if any, of the net book value above the ceiling is required to be written off as an expense. A significant decline in oil and natural gas prices from current levels, or other factors, without other mitigating circumstances, could r esult in reductions of the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties and an equivalent charge to earnings. An increase in operating costs or a decline in our production level could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Higher operating costs for our properties will directly decrease the amount of cash flow received by us. Electricity, supplies, and labor costs are a few of the operating costs that are susceptible to material fluctuation. A significant increase in operating costs could result in materially lower operating margin and cash flow. The level of production from our existing properties may decline at rates greater than anticipated due to unforeseen circumstances, many of which are beyond our control. A significant decline in our production could result in materially lower revenues and cash flow. Our operating results are affected by our ability to market the oil and natural gas that we produce. Our business depends in part upon the availability, proximity and capacity of natural gas gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities. Canadian federal and provincial, as well as United States federal and state, regulation of oil and natural gas production, processing and transportation, tax and energy policies, general economic conditions, and changes in supply and demand could adversely affect our ability to produce and market oil and natural gas. If market factors change and inhibit the marketing of our production, overall production or realized prices may decline. 18 Table of Contents We are not the operator and have limited influence over the operations of the majority of our oil and natural gas properties. We hold minority interests in the majority of our oil and natural gas properties. As a result, we cannot control the pace of exploration or development, major decisions affecting the drilling of wells or the plan for development and production at non-operated properties, although contract provisions give Barnwell certain consent rights in some matters. The operator’s influence over these matters can affect the pace at which we incur capital expenditures. Additionally, as certain underlying joint venture data is not accessible to us, we depend on the operators at non-operated properties to provide us with reliable accounting information. Our operations are subject to domestic and foreign government regulation and other risks, particularly in Canada and the United States. Barnwell’s oil and natural gas operations are affected by political developments and laws and regulations, particularly in Canada and the United States, such as restrictions on production, restrictions on imports and exports, the maintenance of specified reserves, tax increases and retroactive tax claims, expropriation of property, cancellation of contract rights, environmental protection controls, environmental compliance requirements and laws pertaining to workers’ health and safety. Further, the right to explore for and develop oil and natural gas on lands in Alberta, Saskatchewan and British Columbia is controlled by the governments of each of those provinces. Changes in royalties and other terms of provincial leases, permits and reservations may have a substantial effect on Barnwell’s operations. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from our operations in Canada. In fiscal 2010, we derived approximately 69% of our oil and natural gas segment revenues from operations in Canada. Additionally, our ability to compete in the Canadian oil and natural gas industry may be adversely affected by governmental regulations or other policies that favor the awarding of contracts to contractors in which Canadian nationals have substantial ownership interests. Furthermore, we may face governmentally imposed restrictions or fees from time to time on the transfer of funds to the U.S. Government regulations control and often limit access to potential markets and impose extensive requirements concerning employee safety, environmental protection, pollution control and remediation of environmental contamination. Environmental regulations, in particular, prohibit access to some markets and make others less economical, increase equipment and personnel costs and often impose liability without regard to negligence or fault. In addition, governmental regulations may discourage our customers’ activities, reducing demand for our products and services. Compliance with foreign tax and other laws may adversely affect our operations. Tax and other laws and regulations are not always interpreted consistently among local, regional and national authorities. Income tax laws, other legislation or government incentive programs relating to the oil and natural gas industry may in the future be changed or interpreted in a manner that adversely affects us and our stockholders. It is also possible that in the future we will be subject to disputes concerning taxation and other matters in Canada, including the manner in which we calculate our income for tax purposes, and these disputes could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. 19 Table of Contents We are dependent upon future discoveries or acquisitions of oil and natural gas to maintain our reserves. We actively explore for oil and natural gas reserves. However, future exploration and drilling results are uncertain and may involve substantial costs. Despite this uncertainty or potential cost, discoveries or acquisitions of additional reserves are needed to avoid a material decline in reserves and production. As a result, future oil and natural gas reserves may be dependent on our success in exploiting existing properties and acquiring additional reserves. If our access to capital becomes limited or unavailable, our ability to make the necessary capital investments to maintain or expand our oil and natural gas reserves will be impaired. Additionally, we cannot guarantee that we will be successful in developing additional reserves or acquiring additional reserves on terms that meet our investment objectives. Without these reserve additions, our reserves will deplete and as a consequence, either production from, or the average reserve life of, our properties will decline. Actual reserves will vary from reserve estimates. Estimating reserves is inherently uncertain and the reserves estimation process involves significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data. The reserve data and standardized measures set forth herein are only estimates. Ultimately, actual reserves attributable to our properties will vary from estimates, and those variations may be material. The estimation of reserves involves a number of factors and assumptions, including, among others: · oil and natural gas prices as prescribed by the SEC; · historical production from our wells compared with production rates from similar producing wells in the area; · future commodity prices, production and development costs, royalties and capital expenditures; · initial production rates; · production decline rates; · ultimate recovery of reserves; · success of future development activities; · marketability of production; · effects of government regulation; and · other government levies that may be imposed over the producing life of reserves. If these factors, assumptions and prices prove to be inaccurate, actual results may vary materially from reserve estimates. Delays in business operations could adversely affect our distributions. In addition to the usual delays in payment by purchasers of oil and natural gas to the operators of our properties, and the delays of those operators in remitting payment to us, payments between any of these parties may also be delayed by: · restrictions imposed by lenders; · accounting delays; 20 Table of Contents · delays in the sale or delivery of products; · delays in the connection of wells to a gathering system; · blowouts or other accidents; · adjustments for prior periods; · recovery by the operator of expenses incurred in the operation of the properties; and · the establishment by the operator of reserves for these expenses. Any of these delays could expose us to additional third party credit risks. The industry in which we operate exposes us to potential liabilities that may not be covered by insurance. Our operations are subject to all of the risks associated with the operation and development of oil and natural gas properties, including the drilling of oil and natural gas wells, and the production and transportation of oil and natural gas. These risks include encountering unexpected formations or pressures, premature declines of reservoirs, blow-outs, equipment failures and other accidents, cratering, sour gas releases, uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids, adverse weather conditions, pollution, other environmental risks, fires and spills. A number of these risks could result in personal injury, loss of life, or environmental and other damage to our property or the property of others. While we maintain reserves for anticipated liabilities and carry various levels of insurance, we could be affected by civil, criminal, regulatory or administrative actions, claims or proceedings. We cannot fully protect against all of the risks listed above, nor are all of these risks insurable. There is no assurance that any applicable insurance or indemnification agreements will adequately protect us against liability for the risks listed above. We could face substantial losses if an event occurs for which we are not fully insured or are not indemnified against or a customer or insurer fails to meet its indemnification or insurance obligations. In addition, there can be no assurance that insurance will continue to be available to cover any or all of these risks, or, even if available, that insurance premiums or other costs will not rise significantly in th e future, so as to make the cost of such insurance prohibitive. We may incur material costs to comply with or as a result of health, safety, and environmental laws and regulations. The oil and natural gas industry is subject to extensive environmental regulation pursuant to local, provincial and federal legislation. A violation of that legislation may result in the imposition of fines or the issuance of “clean up” orders. Legislation regulating the oil and natural gas industry may be changed to impose higher standards and potentially more costly obligations. For example, the 1997 Kyoto Protocol to the United Nation’s Framework Convention on Climate Change, known as the Kyoto Protocol, was ratified by the Canadian government in December 2002 and will require, among other things, significant reductions in greenhouse gases. The impact of the Kyoto Protocol on us is uncertain and may result in significant additional costs for our future operations. Although we have recorded a provision in our financial statements relating to our estimated future environmental and reclamation obligations that we believe is reasonable, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to satisfy our actual future environmental and reclamation obligations. 21 Table of Contents We are not fully insured against certain environmental risks, either because such insurance is not available or because of high premium costs. In particular, insurance against risks from environmental pollution occurring over time, as opposed to sudden and catastrophic damages, is not available on economically reasonable terms. Accordingly, any site reclamation or abandonment costs actually incurred in the ordinary course of business in a specific period could negatively impact our cash flow. Should we be unable to fully fund the cost of remedying an environmental problem, we might be required to suspend operations or enter into interim compliance measures pending completion of the required remedy. We may have difficulty financing our planned capital expenditures, which could have an adverse affect on our business. We make and will continue to make substantial capital expenditures in our exploration and development projects. Without adequate capital resources, our drilling and other activities may be limited and our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. We may not be able to secure necessary financing on reasonable terms or at all and financing may not continue to be available to us under our existing financing arrangements. If capital resources are unavailable, we may curtail our drilling, development and other activities or be forced to sell some of our assets under untimely or unfavorable terms. Any such curtailment or sale could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unforeseen title defects may result in a loss of entitlement to production and reserves. Although we conduct title reviews in accordance with industry practice prior to any purchase of resource assets or property, such reviews do not guarantee that an unforeseen defect in the chain of title will not arise and defeat our title to the purchased assets. If such a defect were to occur, our entitlement to the production from such purchased assets could be jeopardized. Risks Related to Land Investment Segment The real estate investment industry continues to experience a slowdown that may persist for an indefinite period. This downturn in economic conditions could adversely affect our business, results of operations and stockholders’ equity. The real estate investment industry is cyclical in nature and is particularly vulnerable to shifts in local, regional, and national economic conditions outside of our control such as interest rates, housing demand, population growth, employment levels, job growth and property taxes. Further, a weakening of the economic drivers in Hawaii, which include tourism, military spending, construction starts and employment, and a decrease in market demand adversely impacted the level of real estate activity in Hawaii. The industry has experienced a significant decrease in demand for new homes since 2007 and this trend may continue for an extended period of time. Economic conditions in the United States have also weakened, which puts continued pressure on consumer confidence for residential real estate. These challenging market conditions are expected to continue for the foreseeable future and, in the near term, these conditions may further deteriorate. We expect that continued weakness in the industry could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 22 Table of Contents Considerable economic and political uncertainties currently exist that could have adverse effects on consumer buying habits, construction costs, availability of labor and materials and other factors affecting us and the real estate industry in general. Significant expenditures associated with investment in real estate, such as real estate taxes, insurance, maintenance costs and debt payments, cannot generally be reduced even though changes in Hawaii’s or the nation’s economy may cause a decrease in revenues from our properties. Our real estate business is concentrated in the state of Hawaii. As a result, our financial results are dependent on the economic growth and health of Hawaii, particularly the island of Hawaii. Barnwell’s land investment segment is affected by the condition of Hawaii’s real estate market. The Hawaii real estate market is affected by Hawaii’s economy and Hawaii’s tourism industry, as well as the United States’ economy in general. Any future cash flows from Barnwell’s land development activities are subject to, among other factors, the level of real estate activity and prices, the demand for new housing and second homes on the island of Hawaii, the rate of increase in the cost of building materials and labor, the introduction of building code modifications, changes to zoning laws, and the level of confidence in Hawaii’s economy. The future economic growth in certain portions of the island of Hawaii may be adversely affected if its infrastructure, such as roads, airports, medical facilities and schools, are not impro ved to meet increased demand. There can be no assurance that these improvements will occur. The occurrence of natural disasters in Hawaii could adversely affect our business. The occurrence of a natural disaster in Hawaii such as, but not limited to, earthquakes, landslides, hurricanes, tornadoes, volcanic activity, droughts and floods, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop and sell properties or realize income from our projects. The occurrence of a natural disaster could also cause increases in property and flood insurance rates and deductibles, which could reduce demand for our properties. Increases in interest rates, tightening of lending standards and decreases, limitations or restrictions in the availability of mortgage financing and other economic factors outside our control, such as consumer confidence and declines in employment levels could lead to slowed home sales, which could adversely affect our revenues and earnings. The United States residential mortgage market continues to experience disruption. Mortgage interest rates have been experiencing significant volatility and contributed to the challenging market conditions faced by us and the industry. In addition, as a result of increased default rates and other factors, the willingness of many lenders to make home mortgage loans has decreased and lenders have tightened their lending standards. The volatility in interest rates, the decrease in the willingness of lenders to make home mortgage loans, and the tightening of lending standards have made it more difficult for some potential buyers to finance the purchase of our homes. Potential buyers may not be able to obtain acceptable financing to purchase residential lots within the Kaupulehu area, leading to further declines in the market for homes. Any limitations or restrict ions on the availability of mortgage financing or increases in mortgage interest rates could reduce residential lot sales, thereby reducing our revenues and earnings. Even if potential buyers do not need financing, changes in interest rates and mortgage availability could make it harder for them to sell their existing homes to potential buyers who need financing. Any limitations or restrictions on the availability of mortgage financing, further interest rate increases or limits on the deductibility of home mortgages could adversely affect our sales, which would reduce our revenues. 23 Table of Contents Our business is subject to extensive regulation which makes it difficult and expensive for us to conduct our operations. We are subject to a wide variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to land use and development and to environmental compliance and permitting obligations, including those related to the use, storage, discharge, emission, and disposal of hazardous materials. Any failure to comply with these laws could result in capital or operating expenditures or the imposition of severe penalties or restrictions on operations that could adversely affect present and future operations, or jeopardize our ability to sell the leasehold interest currently held. Receipt of future percentage of sales payments is dependent upon the developer’s continued efforts to develop and market the property. We are entitled to receive future payments based on a percentage of the sales prices of residential homes and lots within approximately 870 acres in the Kaupulehu area. However, in order to collect such percentage of sales payments we are reliant upon an unaffiliated third party developer to continue to develop and market the homes and lots. The receipt of future percentage of sales payments could be jeopardized if the developer fails to proceed with development and marketing of the property. If required land use entitlements are not obtained at reasonable costs, or at all, our operating results could be adversely affected. We hold the leasehold interest to approximately 1,000 acres of vacant land that is currently zoned conservation. Our success in selling this interest may be contingent upon obtaining the necessary reclassification from the State of Hawaii Land Use Commission and county of Hawaii. Obtaining the necessary reclassification and ministerial approvals is often difficult, costly and may take several years, or more, to complete. Delays or failures to obtain the necessary reclassification approvals may adversely affect our financial results. Environmental and other regulations may have an adverse effect on our business. Our properties are subject to federal, state and local environmental regulations and restrictions that may impose significant limitations. In most cases, approval to develop requires multiple permits which involve a long, uncertain and costly regulatory process. The value of our lot acquisition rights could be impaired if the developer of the property is unable to obtain required land use entitlements or successfully negotiate development terms and agreements. We hold acquisition rights to 14 lots in agricultural-zoned leasehold lands in the upland area of Kaupulehu (“Mauka Lands”) situated between the Queen Kaahumanu Highway and the Mamalahoa Highway at Kaupulehu, North Kona, island and state of Hawaii. The lot acquisition rights give us the right to purchase residential lots which may be developed on the Mauka Lands. The ability to purchase residential lots and the value of such lots in the future is contingent upon the developer of the property obtaining the necessary land use reclassification, zoning and development approvals from regulatory entities. Obtaining the necessary reclassification and ministerial approvals is often difficult, costly and may take several years, or more, to complete. Delays or failures to obtain the necessary reclassification and rezoning approvals may adversely affect our f inancial results. Our ability to purchase lots and the value of such lots is also contingent upon the ability of the developer of the property to successfully negotiate development terms and agreements within the Mauka Lands. If the developer is unsuccessful in such negotiations, our ability to purchase residential lots in the Mauka Lands would be impaired. 24 Table of Contents The market value of our real estate interests could decline, which may require write-downs of the carrying value of our residential lots held for investment to its estimated fair value. Any write-downs would negatively impact our results of operations. The risk of owning undeveloped lots can be substantial and we may have bought lots which we cannot profitably sell. The market value of residential lots can fluctuate significantly as a result of changing economic market conditions. Prevailing market conditions may significantly influence the market value of our residential parcels held for investment. In the event of changes in economic or market conditions, we may have to sell the residential lots at lower margins or at a loss. Furthermore, if the market conditions continue to deteriorate, we may be required to record write-downs of the carrying value of our residential parcels held for investment. Such write-downs would have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Residential Real Estate Segment The homebuilding industry continues to experience a slowdown that may persist for an indefinite period. This downturn in economic conditions could adversely affect our business, results of operations and stockholders’ equity. The homebuilding industry historically has been cyclical and is sensitive to changes in economic conditions such as employment levels, consumer confidence, consumer income, availability of financing and interest rate levels. Adverse changes in any of these conditions generally, or in the market in which we operate, could decrease demand and pricing for new homes or result in customer cancellations of pending contracts, which could adversely affect the number of home deliveries we make or reduce the prices we can charge for homes, either of which could result in a reduction in our revenues or deterioration of our margins. The homebuilding industry has experienced a significant and sustained downturn characterized by decreased demand for new homes, an oversupply of both new and resale home inventories, including foreclosed homes; aggressive price competition among homebuilders, including increased incentives for home sales; and a more restrictive mortgage lending environment. Economic conditions in the United States have also weakened recently, which puts continued pressure on consumer confidence for residential real estate. These challenging market conditions are expected to continue for the foreseeable future and, in the near term, these conditions may further deteriorate. Continued weakness in the homebuilding industry could further adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are reliant upon sales of homes as a source of liquidity. If we are unable to sell the homes within a reasonable timeframe, our revenues, operating results, cash inflows and financial condition could be materially impacted. Barnwell currently owns two luxury residences held for sale in the Lot 4A Increment I area of Kaupulehu, North Kona, Hawaii. 25 Table of Contents The acquisition of the parcels and home construction costs on the luxury homes were financed through a bank revolving credit facility and subsequently modified under a non-revolving credit facility. Under the modified agreement, we are required to make a scheduled principal payment of $500,000 per quarter. If we sell one of the homes, the quarterly payment will be reduced to $250,000 per quarter. The entire unpaid principal balance and any accrued interest is due in full in February 2012, unless we sell a home and lot before then, in which case we will be required to make a principal payment upon the sale of a home and lot in an amount equal to the greater of (1) 100% of the net sales proceeds of the home and lot or (2) $1,500,000 for each of the two lots and $7,000,000 for each of the two homes. The timing and amount of residential home sales are unpredictable and may be sporadic. The inability to sell the homes within a reasonable timeframe will lead to additional interest costs. Additionally, if we are unable to sell the homes within a reasonable timeframe, we will need to refinance the debt, obtain alternative terms or sources of financing, liquidate investments and/or operating assets, or reduce oil and natural gas capital expenditures to make the required cash outflows. This would negatively impact our liquidity. Furthermore, if estimated cash inflows from home sales do not occur on a timely basis or are less than current expectations, our revenues, operating results, cash inflows and financial condition could be materially impacted. If we are unable to sell the homes by February 2012, the due date of the facility, and we are unable to refinance our debt, we will need to obtain alternative terms or sources of financing or liquidate investments and/or operating assets to repay the facility on its due date. We have limited experience in the homebuilding industry. Homebuilding is a new business segment for us and we are relying to a material extent on our business partners to help us execute our business plan. We may need financing to fund our future real estate development activities. If we are unable to obtain sufficient financing or such financing is obtained on adverse terms, we may not be able to operate our business as planned, which could adversely affect our results of operations and future growth. The real estate development industry is capital intensive and homebuilding requires significant up-front expenditures to acquire land and begin development. We will need to establish funding sources to finance any future land acquisition capital expenditures. If such sources are not sufficient, we would seek additional capital in the form of debt or equity financing from a variety of potential sources, including additional bank financing, joint venture partner financing, and/or securities offerings. The amount and types of indebtedness which we may incur are limited by the terms of the agreements governing our existing debt. In addition, the availability of borrowed funds to be utilized for land acquisition, development and construction may be greatly reduced, and the lending community may require increased amounts of equity to be invested in a project by bo rrowers in connection with both new loans and the extension of existing loans. The failure to obtain sufficient capital to fund our planned capital and other expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business. 26 Table of Contents Our operating results from homebuilding are expected to be variable. Due to the cyclical nature of the real estate development industry, we expect to experience variability in our future operating results on a quarterly and an annual basis. Factors expected to contribute to this variability include, among other things: · the timing of land acquisitions and permitting; · the timing of home closings, land sales and level of home sales; · our ability to continue to acquire additional land or options thereon on acceptable terms; · the condition of the real estate market and the general economy; and · delays in construction due to natural disasters, adverse weather, reduced contractor availability and strikes. For example, the timing of land acquisitions and permitting impacts our ability to pursue the development of new housing projects in accordance with our business plan. If the timing of land acquisitions, zoning or regulatory approvals is delayed, we will be delayed in our ability to develop housing projects, which would likely decrease our backlog. Furthermore, these delays could result in a decrease in our revenues and earnings for the periods in which the delays occur and possibly subsequent periods until the planned housing projects can be completed. A delay in home closings due to natural disasters, adverse weather or contractor availability would have a similar impact on revenues and earnings for the period in which the delays occur. Further, revenues may increase in subsequent periods over what would normally be expected as a result of increased home closings as the delays described above are resolved. Changes in the government regulations applicable to homebuilders could restrict our business activities, increase our operating expenses and cause our revenues to decline. Regulatory requirements applicable to homebuilders could cause us to incur significant liabilities and operating expenses and could restrict our business activities. We are subject to local, state and federal statutes and rules regulating, among other things, certain developmental matters, building and site design, and matters concerning the protection of worker health and safety, and the environment. Our operating expenses may be increased by governmental regulations, such as building permit allocation ordinances, impact and other fees and taxes, which may be imposed to defray the cost of providing certain governmental services and improvements. Other governmental regulations, such as building moratoriums and “no growth” or “slow growth” initiatives, which may be adopted in communities which have developed rapidly, may cause delays in our home projects or otherwise restrict our business activities resulting in reductions in our revenues. Any delay or refusal to grant us necessary licenses, permits or approvals from government agencies could cause substantial increases to development costs or cause us to abandon the project and to sell the affected land at a potential loss, which in turn could harm our operating results. Our residential real estate segment is dependent on the continued availability and satisfactory performance of our building contractors, which, if unavailable, could have a material adverse effect on our business. 27 Table of Contents We conduct our construction operations through unaffiliated building contractors. As a consequence, we depend on the continued availability of and satisfactory performance by the contractors for the construction of our homes. There may not be sufficient availability of and satisfactory performance by the contractors. If the contractors’ quality of work is not sufficient, our ability to construct homes on the schedule we have planned would be affected. This could result in an increase in our costs to construct homes in a timely manner, which could result in an increase in our overall costs and thus a decline in our margins and in our net income. Further, non-timely completion of work could affect our ability to sell homes based upon our projected timeline thus possibly affecting our ability to obtain additional financing to continue our homebuilding efforts. font> Shortages of labor or materials and/or increases in the price of materials could delay construction or increase the cost of home construction thereby reducing our sales and earnings. The homebuilding business has from time to time experienced building material and labor shortages, as well as volatility in the prices of certain materials, including lumber, framing, drywall and cement, which are significant components of home construction costs. These labor and material shortages can be more severe during periods of strong demand for housing or during periods where the area in which we operate experiences natural disasters that have a significant impact on existing residential and commercial structures. Shortages and price increases could cause delays in and increase our costs of home construction, which in turn could harm our operating results. The market value of our real estate interests could decline, which may require write-downs of the carrying value of our real estate held for sale to its estimated fair value. Any write-downs would negatively impact our results of operations. The risk of owning developed and undeveloped land can be substantial for homebuilders. Homebuilding requires that we acquire land for replacement and expansion of land inventory within our existing and new markets. The risks inherent in purchasing and developing land increase as consumer demand for housing decreases. Thus, we may have bought and developed land which we cannot profitably sell or on which we cannot profitably build and sell homes. The market value of land, buildable lots and housing inventories can fluctuate significantly as a result of changing economic market conditions. It is possible that the measures we employ to manage inventory risks will not be successful and as a result our operations may suffer. In addition, inventory carrying costs can be significant and can result in losses in a poorly performing market. Prevailing mark et conditions may significantly influence the market value of our real estate held for sale. In the event of changes in economic or market conditions, we may have to sell homes or land inventory at lower margins or at a loss. Furthermore, if the market conditions continue to deteriorate, we will be required to record write-downs of the carrying value of our real estate held for sale. Such write-downs would have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Severe weather and other natural conditions or disasters may disrupt or delay construction and may impair the value of our real estate property. Severe weather and other natural conditions or disasters, such as, but not limited to, earthquakes, landslides, hurricanes, tornadoes, volcanic activity, droughts, floods, and heavy or prolonged rain, can negatively affect our operations by requiring us to delay or halt construction or to perform potentially costly repairs to our projects under construction and to unsold homes. Further, these conditions can delay home closings, adversely affect the cost or availability of materials or labor, or impair the value of the property on a temporary or permanent basis. To the extent our insurance is not adequate to cover business interruption losses or repair costs resulting from these events, our total earned revenues and earnings may be adversely affected. 28 Table of Contents The homebuilding industry is highly competitive and, with more limited resources than some of our competitors, we may not be able to compete effectively. The homebuilding industry is highly competitive. We face competition from other developers on the island of Hawaii and from other luxury residential properties in Hawaii and the mainland United States. In many cases, our competitors have greater financial and other resources, more established market positions, lower costs of capital, labor and material than we do. Homebuilders compete for, among other things, desirable land, financing, raw materials, skilled labor and purchasers. We compete for residential sales on the basis of a number of interrelated factors, including location, reputation, amenities, design, quality and price, with numerous homebuilders, including some homebuilders with greater financial resources and/or lower costs than us. Increased competition could also reduce the number of homes we deliver, reducing our revenues, or cause us to accept reduced margins to maintain sales volumes. A reduction in our revenue or margins due to competitive factors could affect our ability to service our debt, including the credit facilities. Risks Related to Contract Drilling Segment Demand for water well drilling and/or pump installation is volatile. A decrease in demand for our services could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Demand for services is highly dependent upon land development activities in the state of Hawaii. As also noted above, the real estate development industry is cyclical in nature and is particularly vulnerable to shifts in local, regional, and national economic conditions outside of our control such as interest rates, housing demand, population growth, employment levels and job growth and property taxes. If we experience a decrease in water well drilling and/or pump installation contracts, we may experience decreased revenues and operating results. A significant portion of our contract drilling business is dependent on municipalities and a decline in municipal spending could adversely impact our business. A significant portion of our contract drilling division revenues is derived from water and infrastructure contracts with governmental entities or agencies. Reduced tax revenues and governmental budgets may limit spending by local governments which in turn will affect the demand for our services. Material reductions in spending by a significant number of local governmental agencies could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial position. Our contract drilling operations face significant competition. We face competition for our services from a variety of competitors. Many of our competitors utilize drilling rigs that drill as quickly as our equipment but require less labor. Our strategy is to compete based on pricing and to a lesser degree, quality of service. If we are unable to compete effectively with our competitors, our financial results could be adversely affected. 29 Table of Contents The loss of or damage to key vendor, customer or sub-contractor relationships would adversely affect our operations. Our business is dependent on our relationships with key vendors, customers and subcontractors. The loss of or damage to any of our key relationships could negatively affect our business. Awarding of contracts is dependent upon our ability to obtain contract bid and performance bonds from insurers. Although the Company has not experienced difficulties in obtaining such bonds in the past, there can be no assurance that our ability to obtain such bonds will continue on the same basis as the past. Additionally, bonding insurance rates may increase and have an impact on our ability to win competitive bids, which could have a corresponding material impact on contract drilling operating results. The contracts in our backlog are subject to change orders and cancellation. Our backlog consists of the uncompleted portion of services to be performed under contracts that have been started and new contracts not yet started. Our contracts are subject to change orders and can be cancelled and if our estimated backlog is reduced significantly, this could adversely affect our operations. The occurrence of natural disasters in Hawaii could adversely affect our business. The occurrence of a natural disaster in Hawaii such as, but not limited to, earthquakes, landslides, hurricanes, tornadoes, volcanic activity, droughts and floods, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to complete our contracts. Entity-Wide Risks The continued economic slowdown may have impacts on our business and financial condition that we currently cannot predict. The ongoing economic slowdown may have further impacts on our business and our financial condition, and we may face additional challenges if economic conditions do not improve. Our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to raise capital, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. The economic situation could adversely affect the demand for real estate development activities in the state of Hawaii which in turn could cause a decline in the water well drilling and/or pump installation services required. Furthermore, weak market conditions could cause a deeper decrease in demand for luxury homes. Additionally, economic conditions could lead to a further reduction in demand for oil and natural gas, or lower prices for natural gas and oil, or both, wh ich could have a negative impact on our revenues. 30 Table of Contents We are reliant upon future cash flows from operations, land investment segment development rights and percentage of sales proceeds, and available credit as a source of liquidity. If estimated cash inflows do not occur timely or are less than current expectations, our liquidity may be negatively impacted. In addition to cash flows from oil and natural gas, residential real estate and contract drilling operations, we rely upon land investment segment development rights and percentage of sales payment proceeds as a source of liquidity. However, oil and natural gas prices have been historically volatile and the timing and amount of land investment segment percentage of sales proceeds are unpredictable, may be sporadic, and are not under our control. Development rights proceeds, on the other hand, are scheduled but there is no assurance that the final development rights option monies will be received. We also have a credit facility with a Canadian bank that is denominated in Canadian dollars. Any decreases in currency exchange rates affect the amount of credit available to us. Furthermore, our real estate credit facility’s loan advance limitation is subject to the underlying security’s appraised value. Any decreases in the appraised value of the underlying security could result in the need to pay down a portion of the outstanding borrowings. Accordingly, if estimated cash inflows do not occur on a timely basis or are less than current expectations or if we are subject to reductions in available credit, our revenues, operating results, cash inflows and financial condition could be materially impacted. Our future level of indebtedness and the terms of our financing arrangements may adversely affect our operations, financial condition and limit our growth. At September 30, 2010, we had borrowings under our credit facilities of approximately $26 million. In the ordinary course of business, we may incur significant additional debt, to the extent permitted by our credit facilities, in order to fund future capital expenditures, acquisitions and homebuilding activities. The terms of our credit facilities impose restrictions on our ability and, in some cases, the ability of our subsidiaries to take a number of actions that we may otherwise desire to take, including one or more of the following: · incurring additional debt, including guarantees of indebtedness; · making investments; · creating liens on our assets; and · selling assets. Our level of indebtedness and the covenants contained in our financing agreements could have important consequences. For example, it could: · limit our ability to obtain future financing, through equity offerings or debt financings, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, refinancing of indebtedness or general corporate and other activities; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our debt, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow for other purposes (i.e., working capital, capital expenditures, and other general business activities); · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, the changes in our business; 31 Table of Contents · subject us to higher costs and more restrictive covenants in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate or other purposes, if additional financing is obtained; · make us vulnerable to increases in interest rates as our credit facilities are subject to variable interest rates; · detract from our ability to successfully withstand a downturn in our business or the economy generally; · place us at a competitive disadvantage because we have more debt than some of our competitors; and · make us more vulnerable to general economic downturns and adverse developments in our industries, especially declines in oil and natural gas prices, and the economy in general. We may incur additional debt, including significant secured indebtedness, or issue additional stock in order to fund capital expenditures, make future acquisitions, and develop our properties. A higher level of indebtedness increases the risk that we may default on our obligations. Our ability to meet our debt obligations and to reduce our level of indebtedness depends on our future performance. General economic conditions, oil and natural gas prices and financial, business and other factors affect our operations and our future performance. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Factors that will affect our ability to raise cash through a refinancing of our debt include financial market conditions, the value of our assets and our performance at the time we need capital. In addition, our Canadian revolving credit facility is subject to periodic redetermination. A decrease in the facility could require us to repay indebtedness in excess of the borrowing base, or we may need to further secure the lenders with additional collateral. Borrowings under the real estate non-revolving credit facility are subject to a loan advance limitation based on the appraised value of the underlying security. The loan advance limitation may be reduced as a result of a decrease in appraised value of the underlying security. If borrowings under the facility exceed the loan advance limitation, Barnwell will be required to make debt repayments in the amount of the excess. The price of our common stock has been volatile and could continue to fluctuate substantially. The market price of our common stock has been volatile and could fluctuate based on a variety of factors, including: · fluctuations in commodity prices; · variations in results of operations; · announcements by us and our competitors; · legislative or regulatory changes; · general trends in the industry; · general market conditions; and · analysts’ estimates and other events in the oil and natural gas industry. Failure to retain key personnel could hurt our operations. We require highly skilled and experienced personnel to operate our business. In addition to competing in highly competitive industries, we compete in a highly competitive labor market. Our business could be adversely affected by an inability to retain personnel or upward pressure on wages as a result of the highly competitive labor market. 32 Table of Contents A small number of stockholders, including our executive officers, own a significant amount of our common stock and have influence over our business regardless of the opposition of other stockholders. As of September 30, 2010, two of our investors and our executive officers held approximately 45% of our common stock. The interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with the interests of other stockholders. These stockholders, acting together, have significant influence over all matters submitted to our stockholders, including the election of our directors, and could accelerate, delay, deter or prevent a change of control of us. These stockholders are able to exercise significant control over our business, policies and affairs. Adverse changes in actuarial assumptions used to calculate retirement plan costs due to economic or other factors, or lower returns on plan assets could adversely affect Barnwell’s results and financial condition. Retirement plan cash funding obligations and plan expenses and obligations are subject to a high degree of uncertainty and could increase in future years depending on numerous factors, including the performance of the financial markets, specifically the equity markets, and the levels of interest rates. We are involved as a passive minority-interest partner in joint ventures and are subject to risks associated with joint venture partnerships. We are involved as a passive minority-interest partner in joint venture relationships and may initiate future joint venture projects. Entering into a joint venture as a passive minority-interest partner involves certain risks which include: · the inability to exercise voting control over the joint venture; · economic or business interests which are not aligned with our venture partners, including the holding period and timing of ultimate sale of the ventures’ underlying assets; and · the inability for the venture partner to fulfill its commitments and obligations due to financial or other difficulties. General economic conditions in the lodging industry could adversely affect our financial results. We own a 1.5% passive minority interest in Hualalai Resort, which includes the Four Seasons Resort Hualalai at Historic Ka’upulehu, two golf courses and a clubhouse, and a 1.5% passive minority interest in the Kona Village Resort, an 80-acre oceanfront hotel property. Soft economic conditions and reduced travel to North Kona, Hawaii could adversely affect these interests and, therefore, our financial results related to our investment. The aforementioned properties are also subject to risks that generally relate to investments in commercial real estate, including governmental regulations, real estate, insurance, zoning, tax and eminent domain laws, the ongoing need for capital improvements to maintain or upgrade properties, fluctuations in real estate values, and the relative illiquidity of real estate compared to other investments. 33 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 