RISK FACTORS The following discussion contains certain cautionary statements regarding Watchit Media, Inc.’s business and results of operations, which should be considered by our stockholders or any reader of our business and results of financial information disclosure. This information is provided to enable us to avail ourselves of the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The following factors should be considered in conjunction with any discussion of our operations 27 or results, including any forward-looking statements as well as comments contained in press releases, presentations to securities analysts or investors and all other communications made by us or our representatives. We intend to use the following words or variations of the following words to identify forward-looking statements: anticipates, believes, expects, estimates, intends, plans, projects and seeks. In making these statements, we disclaim any intention or obligation to address or update each factor in future filings or communications regarding our business or results, and we do not undertake to address how any of these factors may have caused changes to discussions or information contained in previous filings or communications. In addition, any of the matters discussed below may have affected our past results and may affect future results, so that our actual results may differ materially from those expressed here and in prior or subsequent communications. Risks Related to Our Business By completing the sale of the IT services business to FastTrack, LLC, we are losing a substantial source of our revenues. By discontinuing the operations of our IT services segment and selling our remaining IT services component, we will no longer have assets that historically generated the majority of our revenue stream. The IT services segment represented 100% of our revenues in 2002 and 2003 and approximately 89% of our revenues (from both continuing and discontinued operations) in 2004. We may make acquisitions, which if proven unsuccessful, could negatively affect our future profitability and growth. We believe the economic landscape has created opportunity for us to invest in, or acquire businesses that have undergone severe downward pressure in revenues, profit, cash and stock price. We may not be able to identify, acquire or profitably manage additional businesses that we may invest in or acquire without substantial costs, delays or other problems. In addition, acquisitions may involve a number of special risks, including: • Diversion of management’s attention; • Failure to retain certain key personnel • Risks associated with unanticipated events, circumstances or legal liabilities. In addition, if the acquired businesses have operating losses or negative operating cash flow, our ability to achieve positive cash flow and profitability, as well as our liquidity, could be adversely affected. Some or all of these risks could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. For example, client satisfaction or performance problems at a single acquired business could adversely affect our reputation and financial results. Further, any businesses acquired in the future may not achieve anticipated revenues and earnings and therefore negatively impact our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We have decided to focus on our narrowcasting business and have only limited experience in this area. Our business strategy in 2005 was to dispose of our IT services business and focus on expanding our narrowcasting business. We have only been operating our narrowcasting business since March 2004 when we acquired OnSite Media, Inc. As a result, our senior management has only limited experience in this area and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in our efforts to expand our narrowcasting business. The market for narrowcasting may not materialize. Our ability to generate revenues in future periods will increasingly depend upon the market for narrowcasting services, solutions and products. There is a risk that the market for narrowcasting services, solutions and products will not materialize. Critical issues concerning the use of computer hardware and software platforms as well as other video equipment and media, their security, reliability, cost, accessibility and quality continue to evolve. The variability of these factors could materially affect our ability to compete in the market, resulting in an adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The decline in tourism, business travel or the gaming industry could have a material adverse effect on our narrowcasting business. A stagnation or downturn in the economy of Nevada, any jurisdiction in which we operate, or the United States as a whole could have a material adverse effect upon our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Currently, we provide our 28 narrowcasting services to hotels and casinos primarily in Las Vegas, Nevada. Because our narrowcasting business is not diversified, we will be particularly vulnerable to adverse economic conditions in tourism, business travel or the gaming industry in Nevada. Our growth plan requires a significant infusion of capital. We intend to expand our existing narrowcasting business as well as create and develop new narrowcasting services, which may require infusions of capital. If we are not able to raise additional capital, revenue growth and profitability may be adversely affected. We may need to invest heavily to create, produce, market and sell new narrowcasting services. As the demand for narrowcasting services increases, there will be opportunity to provide these services in new and innovative ways. In order to provide these new narrowcasting services, we may need to invest heavily in the creation, production, marketing and selling of new narrowcasting services. We may face intense competition that could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and profitability. The demand for narrowcasting services is expected to reflect dynamic growth over the next several years. We expect the demand will result in intense competition to provide narrowcasting services. If we are not able to successfully execute our strategy, our business may be materially and adversely affected. We may have difficulty managing growth. Our development has required and is expected to continue to require, the full utilization of our management, financial and other resources, which to date has had limited working capital. Managing our growth will depend upon our ability to improve and expand our operations, including our financial and management information systems, and to recruit, train and manage executive staff and employees. We may not be able to efficiently scale our operations, and this failure to effectively manage growth may have a materially adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Our success is dependent on our key management personnel. Our operations are dependent on the continued efforts of our executive officers and senior management. In addition, we will likely depend on the senior management of any business we may merge with or acquire in the future. If any of these people are unable or unwilling to continue in his or her present role, or if we are unable to hire, train and integrate new management personnel effectively, our business and consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. We do not maintain key person life insurance on our senior management. We may not receive any proceeds from the exercise of the warrants issued in connection with the acquisition of OnSite Media, Inc. If the warrant shares issued in connection with our acquisition of OnSite Media, Inc. are exercised, we will receive aggregate gross proceeds of approximately $1.3 million. Given the historical share price and market for Watchit Media common stock, there is no way to know whether the warrants will be in-the-money during the two years period in which they are exercisable. Consequently, we cannot predict whether the warrants will be exercised prior to their expiration or whether any funds from their exercise will be made available to us at anytime in the future. Additionally, the exercise of warrants will have dilutive effect on the holders of our common stock. We may lose certain tax attributes as a result of our acquisition program. At December 31, 2005, Watchit Media had available federal and state net operating loss (NOL) carry-forwards of approximately $45 million. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, the use of prior losses, including NOLs, is limited if a corporation undergoes an “ownership change.” Our merger with OnSite Media, together with future issuances of equity interests by us or the exercise of outstanding warrants or options to purchase our capital stock, may result in an ownership change that is large enough for this limitation to apply. If the limitation applies, we may be unable to use a material portion of its available NOL carry-forwards to reduce future taxable income. 29 Risks Related to the IT Services Business Our revenues and financial condition may be adversely affected by the loss of business from significant clients. Our revenues are primarily derived from services provided in response to client requests or on an assignment-by-assignment basis. A significant portion of our revenues come from engagements which are terminable at any time by our clients without penalty. If we lose a major client or suffer a reduction in business our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected. Our software applications may not work as intended. Our IT services business includes a delivery strategy to provide synchronization and transfer of information between disparate systems, platforms and devices, and rapidly implement them on our own and our client’s platforms. If our software products, including our JASware™ products and FastTrack™ framework, do not work as intended, we will not be able to provide these solutions to our clients and our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows would be adversely affected. We may be unable to protect our proprietary technology. Our success in providing our technology solutions to our clients depends, in part, upon our proprietary software applications and other intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of trade secrets, nondisclosure, other contractual arrangements, copyright and trademark laws to protect our proprietary rights. We enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and clients, and limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information. We cannot be certain that the steps we take in this regard will be adequate to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information or that we will be able to detect unauthorized use and take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. In addition, although we believe that our services and products do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, infringement claims may be asserted against us in the future, and, if asserted, these infringement claims may be successful. A successful claim against us could materially adversely affect our business and consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to rapid changes in technology and client preferences. Our markets are characterized by rapidly changing technology, changes in client requirements and preferences, frequent new product and service announcements, and evolving new industry standards and practices that could render our custom software development skills obsolete. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to acquire or license leading technologies useful in our business; develop new software solutions and technology that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of existing and prospective clients; and respond to technological advances and evolving industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. To be successful, we must adapt to the rapidly changing market by continually improving the performance and reliability of software applications for our clients. We could also incur substantial costs to modify our software applications to adapt to these changes. Our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected if we incurred significant costs without adequate results. We may not be able to establish successful partnerships or strategic alliances, and partnerships and strategic alliances we do establish may not be successful. Part of our business strategy is to form partnerships and strategic alliances with entities that have complementary products, services or technologies which can help us provide complete services to our clients. Even if we identify suitable candidates, we may not be able to form partnerships or alliances on reasonable commercial terms. In addition, any partnerships or alliances we do establish may not complement our business or help us provide services to our clients. If we fail to establish successful partnerships or strategic alliances, our ability to provide clients with complete service could be adversely affected. If we fail to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel, it could harm our business. Our success depends upon our ability to attract, hire and retain technical and professional personnel who possess the necessary skills and experience to conduct our business. We continually identify, screen and retain qualified personnel to keep pace with client demand. Competition for individuals with proven technical skills is intense. In the past, we have experienced difficulties in identifying and retaining qualified personnel and, in some instances, we were unable to meet requests for services. We cannot assure that qualified personnel will continue to be available to us in sufficient numbers. 30 