Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial performance, and results of operations. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for Fiscal 2008, as the forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations, and actual results and conditions could differ materially from the current expectations. Investing in iDNA securities involves a degree of risk, and before making an investment decision, a prospective investor should consider these risk factors as well as other information included or incorporated by reference in the other reports iDNA files with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition to other information set forth herein, consider carefully the following risk factors in evaluating iDNA and its business. Any of these risks could materially affect iDNA’s business, financial condition, or results of operations. These risks could also cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements contained herein and elsewhere. The risks described below are not the only risks facing iDNA. Additional risks not currently known to us or those we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect iDNA’s business operations. 4 iDNA is integrating significant new strategic components into its business plan As a consequence of a series of acquisitions, investments and initiatives, iDNA has been in the process of a strategic transformation of its operations to a strategic communications, information services, technology, and entertainment enterprise from a company engaged in the automobile financing business. iDNA operates in the movie exhibition segment, through the activities of AFC, acquired in April 2000, and added business communications, media services and technology services such as satellite videoconferencing, multi-media production services and corporate and institutional meeting services, web-site development and content management as a result of the acquisitions of (i) CGC and ARS (collectively known as the “Campus Group”), acquired in July 2003, (ii) OMI, acquired in April 2003, and (iii) OTI, acquired in November 2005 and the formation of iDNA Healthcare in July 2006. There can be no assurance that iDNA will be able to effectuate this new business plan successfully, that revenue growth will occur once the plan is enacted, or that any of these new lines of business will achieve profitability or sustain such profitability, once achieved. iDNA’s business is subject to significant competitive pressures iDNA’s competitors may have greater financial, technical and other resources than iDNA, which may provide such competitors with certain advantages, including the ability to allocate greater resources for development, marketing and other purposes. AFC faces varying degrees of competition from other motion picture exhibitors with respect to licensing films and attracting customers. Competitors have built theatres in the area where AFC operates. AFC also competes with a number of other motion picture delivery systems including cable television, pay-per-view, DVDs and videocassettes, satellite and home video systems. New technologies for movie delivery (such as video on demand) could also have a material adverse effect on AFC's business and results of operations. While the impact of these alternative types of motion picture delivery systems on the motion picture exhibition industry is difficult to determine precisely, there is a risk that they could adversely affect attendance at motion pictures shown in theatres. Movie theatres also face competition from a variety of other forms of entertainment competing for the public's leisure time and disposable income, including sporting events, concerts, live theatre and restaurants. iDNA’s performance may fluctuate when its clients are affected simultaneously by the same economic or regulatory factors iDNA's revenues are significantly concentrated in communications, media and entertainment and iDNA’s clients are concentrated within specific industries including pharmaceuticals, legal and professional services, and financial services. These industries are subject to fluctuations of business communications needs based upon the timing of research and development activities, new product launches, continuing educational support, marketplace communication, general budgetary levels, regulatory changes and general economic trends. Consequently, many of iDNA’s clients will likely be influenced at the same time by similar economic or regulatory factors, which can affect the level of spending for advertising, marketing, promotion and communication services. In the event of a decline, projected decline or delay in such spending, the management of iDNA’s clients may choose to cut back or defer spending for iDNA’s services. It is reasonable to expect that, if one client reduces or delays its spending in response to a major economic factor, other clients will also decide to reduce or delay their spending at approximately the same time. Accordingly, iDNA’s revenues are subject to fluctuations as a result of factors that affect its client’s expenditures. 5 iDNA has significant outstanding indebtedness At January 31, 2008, iDNA has an aggregate of $17.6 million in outstanding indebtedness comprised of (i) Acquisition Debt (defined below) in the aggregate principal amount of $13.0 million, (ii) a Term Loan (defined below) in the principal amount of $4.25 million and (iii) other financing obligations in the aggregate principal amount of $376,000. Principally as a consequence of the means in which iDNA has financed the acquisitions of OTI, ARS and CGC (ARS and CGC collectively known as the “Campus Group”), iDNA has outstanding debt in the aggregate principal amount of $13.0 million (collectively the “Acquisition Debt”) which bears interest at the weighted average rate of 5% per annum. The indebtedness is secured by essentially all of iDNA's interest in OTI and the Campus Group, respectively. Repayment of principal attributable to the Acquisition Debt is based upon a formula of cash flows of each of the underlying acquired businesses. iDNA, via its wholly-owned subsidiary, iDNA Cinemas Holdings, Inc. (“Holdings”), consummated a Master Loan and Security Agreement (the “Loan Agreement”) with a third party lender in the principal amount of $4.25 million (the “Term Loan”). The Term Loan is secured by a pledge of all of Holdings assets, including all of the outstanding shares of National Cinemas, Inc. (“NCI”), which owns a 50% membership interest in AFC. The interest rate attributable to the Term Loan is a variable annual rate based upon the prime rate, as published by Citibank N.A. (“Prime Rate”) plus 4%, or, if greater, 12.25%. As a consequence, iDNA’s interest charges under the Term Loan are subject to fluctuations based upon changes in the credit markets and the corresponding Prime Rate. For each 1% increase in the Prime Rate above 8.25%, iDNA’s interest costs on the Term Loan would increase approximately $42,000 per annum. At January 31, 2008, the Prime Rate was 6.0%. Repayment of principal attributable to the Term Loan is based upon a formula of cash distributions received from AFC during the term. iDNA is subject to credit risk from its clients iDNA extends credit to clients in the normal course of business. iDNA continuously monitors collections and payments from clients and maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts based upon historical experience and any specific client collection issues that have been identified. Since accounts receivable are concentrated in a relatively few number of clients, a significant change in the liquidity or financial position of any of these clients could have a material adverse impact on the collectability of the accounts receivable and future operating results. The businesses purchased by iDNA may turn out to be worth less than expected at the time of acquisition Management reviews the carrying value of its long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be fully recoverable. As a consequence of iDNA’s series of acquisitions, iDNA carries goodwill as an asset that it annually assesses for impairment by comparing the carrying value of the goodwill to its fair value. When it is determined that the carrying amount of long-lived assets and goodwill may not be fully recoverable, impairment is measured by comparing an asset’s estimated fair value to its carrying value. The determination of fair value is based on quoted market prices in active markets, if available, or independent appraisals; sales price negotiations; or projected future cash flows discounted at a rate determined by management to be commensurate with iDNA’s business risk. The estimation of fair value utilizing discounted forecasted cash flows includes significant judgments regarding assumptions of revenue, operating and marketing costs; selling and administrative expenses; interest rates; property and equipment additions and retirements; and industry competition, general economic and business conditions, among other factors. 6 During the second quarter of Fiscal 2007, the results of the operations of the CGC reporting unit raised questions as to whether projections used at the last valuation date were still valid. Accordingly, management performed additional impairment tests as of July 31, 2006 for CGC and determined that impairment charges were required at that date. Accordingly, based upon iDNA’s assessment, second quarter Fiscal 2007 operations were charged $1.9 million and $2.6 million for the estimated impairment of CGC’s goodwill and other intangible assets, respectively. At January 31, 2008, the goodwill for each of iDNA’s business segments (information services and strategic communications services) was tested for additional impairment. As a consequence of the testing and initial assessment for Fiscal 2008, iDNA determined that the carrying value of both its information services and its strategic communications services business segments exceeded their fair value, which was estimated based upon the present value of each reporting units expected future cash flows. As a consequence, iDNA charged to operations an aggregate of $8.0 million for the estimated impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets relating to (i) its information services segment in the amount of $5.9 million, and (ii) strategic communication services segment in the amount of $2.1 million, respectively (see Note 2 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report). As a consequence of this impairment charge and other factors, iDNA has initiated preliminary discussions with the former shareholders of the Campus Group (defined below) to restructure the Campus Notes (defined below) in the aggregate amount of $12.1 million and/or reduce the original purchase consideration of the Campus Group acquisition (see Note 7 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Currently, iDNA’s payment obligations are deferred until certain performance criteria are met. Although iDNA is seeking to restructure its obligations under the Campus Notes and/or reduce the original purchase consideration, there can be no assurance that such negotiations will result in a restructuring and/or a reduction in the original purchase consideration. iDNA believes that the available cash and cash equivalents and investments in trading securities totaling $1.6 million at January 31, 2008 and any cash distributions from its investment in AFC and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to pay operating expenses, existing liabilities, fund existing debt repayments and fund its activities through the next twelve months, notwithstanding these impairment charges. iDNA’s success is dependent upon key personnel iDNA’s success depends, in part, upon the continued services of key personnel, such as: James J. McNamara, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer; Robert V. Cuddihy, Jr., Chief Financial Officer and certain divisional managers and sales strategists with iDNA. The loss of the services of any one of them could have a material adverse effect on iDNA. Future acquisitions or investments could disrupt iDNA’s ongoing business, distract management and employees, increase expenses and adversely affect results of operations iDNA has made three significant acquisitions since April 2003 and has started another business. Management's attention may be diverted from operations towards identifying potential acquisitions and negotiating and consummating them. Any acquisitions or investments iDNA makes in the future will involve risks. iDNA may not be able to make acquisitions or investments on commercially acceptable terms. If iDNA does acquire another company, iDNA could have difficulty retaining and assimilating the acquired company's personnel. In addition, iDNA could have difficulty assimilating acquired products, services or technologies into iDNA’s existing operations. These difficulties could disrupt iDNA’s ongoing business, distract management and employees, increase expenses and materially and adversely affect the results of operations. Furthermore, iDNA may incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisitions, which could dilute its stockholders’ ownership interest in iDNA or subordinate such ownership interest in priority to additional senior obligations. 7 iDNA may not be able to hire, train, motivate, retain and manage professional staff iDNA’s management must hire, train, motivate, retain and manage highly skilled employees. Competition for skilled employees who can perform the services that iDNA requires is intense. iDNA might not be able to hire enough of them or to train, motivate, retain and manage the employees it does hire. Hiring, training, motivating, retaining and managing employees with the skills required is time-consuming and expensive. iDNA is unlikely to pay dividends for the foreseeable future iDNA has not paid cash dividends on its common stock. iDNA intends to reinvest any earnings in its business to finance future growth and acquisitions. Accordingly, iDNA’s Board of Directors does not anticipate declaring any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Adverse decisions in iDNA’s litigation matters would adversely affect iDNA’s business iDNA is involved in certain legal proceedings in the normal course of its business. If a major case is decided against iDNA, iDNA could be held liable for an amount that would adversely affect iDNA’s ability to do business. Additionally, iDNA maintained and continues to maintain self-insurance for claims relating to bodily injury or property damage from accidents involving the vehicles rented to customers by its discontinued automobile rental and finance operations. iDNA was, when required by either governing state law or the terms of its rental agreement, self-insured for the first $1.0 million per occurrence, and for losses in excess of $5.0 million per occurrence, for bodily injury and property damage resulting from accidents involving its rental vehicles. iDNA was also self-insured, up to certain retained limits, for bodily injury and property damage resulting from accidents involving iDNA vehicles operated by employees within the scope of their employment. In connection therewith, iDNA established certain reserves in its financial statements for the estimated cost of satisfying those claims. If there is a material change in the assumptions used or the ultimate outcome of the self-insurance claims, iDNA could experience additional future charges to operations. iDNA may be unable to fund its additional capital needs iDNA’s access to capital may be limited because of iDNA’s indebtedness. As a result, iDNA may be unable to make the capital expenditures that iDNA would otherwise believe necessary. In addition, iDNA cannot assure its stockholders that iDNA’s business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that currently anticipated revenue growth will be realized or that future capital will be available to iDNA to enable it to fund its capital expenditure needs. Certain Officers and Directors own a substantial portion of iDNA’s Common Stock As of May 14, 2008, iDNA's executive officers and directors beneficially owned approximately 42.4% of iDNA’s common stock, $0.05 par value (“Common Stock”). While no individual is a beneficial owner of a majority of the outstanding shares of iDNA’s Common Stock, these stockholders have substantial influence and, if they act together, may be able to control decisions on corporate matters, including the election of directors. Such concentration of ownership may also have the effect of preventing a change in control of iDNA. In addition, the interests of management may not always be identical to the interests of non-management stockholders. Future sales of iDNA’s Common Stock in the public market could lower its stock price and impair its ability to raise funds in new stock offerings As of January 31, 2008, there were 10,010,864 shares of iDNA’s Common Stock outstanding. An aggregate of 6,474,117 additional shares of Common Stock may be issued upon the exercise or conversion, as the case may be, of all of the stock options, warrants and convertible debentures outstanding on such date. If the holders of a large number of these securities elect to exercise them for or convert them into Common Stock and then sell the shares of Common Stock they acquire, the market price of the Common Stock could decline. Sales by existing stockholders of a large number of shares at any one time could also adversely affect the market price of iDNA’s Common Stock and could impair iDNA’s ability to raise funds in additional stock offerings. Moreover, the mere possibility that these sales could be made in the future could have the same effect even if these sales are not actually made. 8 Trading in iDNA’s Common Stock has been and may continue to be limited, which may make it difficult to resell shares iDNA’s Common Stock is quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board. The Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board is not, however, a national securities exchange, and trading in securities on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board is often more sporadic than trading in securities listed on an exchange (including NASDAQ). Consequently, an investor may have difficulty reselling any shares of iDNA’s Common Stock that it purchases. The market price of iDNA’s Common Stock can be highly volatile The average daily trading volume of iDNA’s Common Stock has generally been low, which iDNA believes has had a significant effect on the historical market price of iDNA’s Common Stock. As a result, such market price has been highly volatile and may not be indicative of the market price in a more liquid market. The market price of iDNA’s Common Stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including the depth and liquidity of the market for iDNA’s Common Stock, public announcements by iDNA, its clients and its competitors, investor perception of iDNA and general economic and other conditions, which may or may not relate to iDNA's performance. Fluctuations in iDNA’s Common Stock's market price may affect iDNA’s ability to raise capital. Because iDNA’s Common Stock is deemed to be “Penny Stock” under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, investors may not be readily able to resell iDNA’s shares in the public markets iDNA’s Common Stock is currently deemed penny stock under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. These rules impose additional sales practices and disclosure requirements on broker-dealers who sell iDNA’s shares to persons other than certain accredited investors. For covered transactions, a broker-dealer must make a suitability determination for each purchaser and receive a purchaser’s written agreement before the sale. In addition, the broker-dealer must make certain mandated disclosures in transactions of penny stocks. These rules affect the ability of broker-dealers to make a market in iDNA’s Common Stock and adversely affect an investor’s ability to resell shares of iDNA’s Common Stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 9 Item 