Risk Factors”. While trade management projects provide a net profit margin lower than that for construction projects, the Company believes there is generally less risk associated with trade management projects because there is a contingency fund, which can be drawn from if necessary. A contingency fund is a line item which the Company includes in the GMP to account for any contingencies the Company may not have anticipated in estimating the GMP. In the event the Company’s costs exceed the relevant line items quoted in the GMP, the Company may draw from the contingency fund to cover such expenses. The Company is at risk for any costs in excess of the GMP. There is no assurance that potential cost overruns will not exceed this contingency. Operations. Historically, the Company has obtained projects primarily through negotiations with private owners, construction managers and general contractors and by competitive bidding and negotiations in response to advertisements by federal, state and local governmental agencies. During 2008 and 2007, the Company has not bid on public projects, but has obtained projects in the private sector by working with owners, developers, construction companies and design professionals on a cooperative basis. The Company’s ability to suggest alternative design concepts has allowed its customers to reduce their cost of projects. By providing value engineering and trade management services, the Company has been able to secure contracts without participating in the competitive bidding process. For all projects, the Company develops a comprehensive project budget using what it believes is a proven cost estimating system. Projects are divided into phases and line items indicating separate labor, equipment, material, subcontractor and overhead cost estimates. As a project progresses, the Company’s project managers are responsible for planning, scheduling and overseeing operations and reviewing project costs compared to the estimates. These costs are tracked on a monthly basis. The Company’s costs have been and may in the future be impacted by lower than expected labor productivity and higher than expected material costs. Recently, the Company has begun to bid on public projects. It has previously received letters of approval as an authorized bidder by various government agencies, including the New York City Transit Authority, the New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation, the New York City School Construction Authority, the New York City Housing Authority and the New York State Dormitory Authority. Markets. The Company competes for business primarily in the New York City metropolitan area. However, the Company has performed work outside of that area in the past. Backlog. The Company has a backlog (anticipated revenue from the uncompleted portions of awarded contracts) totaling approximately $62,500,000 as of December 31, 2008, compared to approximately $111,300,000 as of December 31, 2007, and approximately $110,200,000 as of December 31, 2006. The Company’s backlog at December 31, 2008 does not include the contract values for the 42nd Street and Tenth Avenue project and the 56 Leonard Street project in Manhattan. These two projects, whose aggregate contract amount is in excess of $56,000,000, have been put on hold by their respective owners. The December 31, 2008 backlog does include three contracts, together having an original contract value of approximately 5 $8.7 million, which were terminated by the developer for convenience. At December 31, 2008, these three contracts were approximately 25% complete. The developer is seeking assistance from its contractors and their unions in order to reduce construction costs. The Company is having discussions with the developer in an effort to reduce costs, and towards keeping the Company involved in the projects. The Company is hopeful that its role in the construction of these projects will resume. The Company believes its remaining backlog is firm, but in this unsettled economic time, delays or postponement of additional projects is not within the Company’s control. The Company’s backlog at December 31, 2008 does not include the Mount Sinai Hospital Center for Science and Medicine trade management contract, where the Company is providing value engineering, estimating, and scheduling services. The Company has not furnished a GMP nor entered into a contract to construct this project, which is currently valued at approximately $58,000,000. A portion of the Company’s anticipated revenue in any year is not reflected in its backlog at the start of the year because some projects are awarded and performed in the same year. The Company believes that approximately $9,000,000 of the existing backlog at December 31, 2008 is not reasonably expected to be completed during the next fiscal year. The schedule for each project is different and subject to change due to circumstances outside the control of the Company. Accordingly, it is not reasonable to assume that the performance of backlog will be evenly distributed throughout a year. The Company believes that its backlog is firm, notwithstanding provisions contained in the contracts which allow customers to modify or cancel the contracts at any time, subject to certain conditions, including reimbursement of costs incurred in connection with the contracts and the possible payment of cancellation fees. The Company is actively seeking new contracts to add to its backlog. Management believes that its value engineering services will continue to assist the Company in obtaining new contracts. Competition. The mechanical contracting market is highly competitive. There are many larger regional and national companies with resources greater than those of the Company. However, some of these large competitors are unfamiliar with the New York City metropolitan area. The Company believes it competes favorably with such companies because of its reputation in the New York City area and its knowledge of the local labor force and its ability to value engineer projects. There are also many smaller contractors and subcontractors in the New York City metropolitan area, who may also compete for work. The Company believes there are barriers to entry for smaller competitors, including bonding requirements, relationships with subcontractors, suppliers and unions. Regulations. The construction industry is subject to various governmental regulations from local, state and federal authorities, such as the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”) and environmental agencies. The Company is also governed by state and federal requirements regarding the handling and disposal of lead paint, but the financial impact of complying with such requirements cannot be predicted at this time because it varies from project to project. The Company must also comply with regulations as to the use and disposal of solvents and hazardous wastes, compliance with which are a normal part of its 6 operations. The Company does not perform asbestos abatement, but has occasionally subcontracted that part of a contract to duly licensed asbestos abatement companies with the Company being named as an additional insured on the asbestos abatement company’s liability insurance policy. The Company has not incurred any liability for violations of environmental laws. Employees. At December 31, 2008, the Company had approximately 43 full-time office and project support employees. The Company also employs field employees, who are union workers. The number of field union workers employed varies at any given time, depending on the number and types of ongoing projects and the scope of projects under contract. The Company hires union labor for specific work assignments and can reduce the number of union workers hired at will with no penalty. The Company pays benefits to union employees through payments to trust funds established by the unions. The Company’s obligation is to pay a percentage of the wages of union workers to these trust funds. The Company is not liable for under funding of these union plans. The Company provides its full-time office employees, not subject to collective bargaining agreements, with medical insurance benefits and a discretionary matching 401(k) plan. In 2008, the Company matched 25% of its employees’ yearly 401(k) contributions. Dependence Upon Customers. At any given time, a material portion of the Company’s contract revenue may be generated from a single customer through one large contract or various contracts. The Company’s customer base can vary each year based on the nature and scope of the projects undertaken in that year. For the year ended December 31, 2008, work under contracts with Bovis Lend Lease LMB, Inc., Gotham Construction Co., LLC and Newmark Construction Services, LLC and related entities, constituted 27%, 16% and 11% of the Company’s total revenues, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2007, work under contracts with Bovis Lend Lease LMB, Inc., Newmark Construction Services, LLC and related entities, and Plaza Construction Corporation constituted 46%, 20% and 13% of the Company’s total revenues, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2006, work under contracts with Bovis Lend Lease LMB, Inc., Newmark Construction Services, LLC, Glenwood Management Corporation and related entities, and Skanska USA Building Inc. constituted 40%, 18%, 10% and 10% of the Company’s total revenues, respectively. Historically, a portion of the Company’s revenue has been generated from contracts with federal, state and local governmental authorities. The Company’s current revenue and backlog does not include any contracts directly with these governmental authorities. As is customary and required in the industry, the Company is often requested to provide a surety bond. The Company’s ability to obtain bonding, and the amount of bonding required, is solely at the discretion of the surety and is primarily based upon the Company’s net worth, working capital, the number and size of projects under construction and the surety’s relationship with management. The larger the project and/or the number of projects under contract, the greater the requirements are for bonding, net worth and working capital. The Company 7 generally pays a fee to the bonding company of an amount approximately 1% of the amount of the contract to be performed. Since inception, the Company has neither been denied any request for payment or performance bonds, nor has a bonding company been required to make a payment on any bonds issued for the Company. At December 31, 2008, approximately $16,800,000 of the Company’s backlog was bonded. Other Matters. The Company does not own any patents or patent rights. The Company’s business is not subject to large seasonal variations. The Company did not expend funds for research and development during 2008, 2007 and 2006, and anticipates no research and development expenses in 2009. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company is subject to a variety of risks, including the risks described below as well as adverse business conditions. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties, not known or described below, which have not been determined to be material may also impair the Company’s business operations. You should carefully consider the risks described below together with all other information in this report, including information contained in the “Forward-Looking Statements,” “Business”, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk” sections. If any of the following risks occur, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Such events may cause actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results, and the trading price of the Company’s stock could decline. The economic downturn, specifically in the New York City metropolitan area, has resulted in a decrease in construction spending in the private and public sectors in the market the Company serves. Several of the Company’s projects have been put on hold or terminated, and there is no assurance as to if and when work on those projects will resume. Additional projects could be delayed or cancelled, which would reduce the Company’s future revenues. The Company has a written employment agreement with Floyd Warkol, its Chairman and CEO, which expires on December 31, 2009. The Company has no other current employment or non-competition agreements with senior management. Because the Company relies on senior management’s relationships with its customers and in the construction industry in New York City, the failure to retain senior management would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company’s continued ability to obtain bonding is critical to its ability to bid on most public work and on certain private projects. The surety’s provision of bonding pursuant to its arrangement with the Company is solely at the surety’s discretion, and the arrangement with the surety is an at-will arrangement subject to termination. If the Company is unable to obtain surety bonds as needed, this could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company has in the past experienced erosion in gross profit margins due to lower than anticipated labor productivity and higher labor costs related to shortages of skilled labor and unforeseen jobsite conditions. There can be no assurance that these factors will not affect productivity and profitability in the future. 8 The Company has in the past experienced significant increases in the cost of steel piping materials, which is the primary material used by the Company on projects. Future increases may impact the Company’s profit margins to the extent the Company is not able to pass such increased costs on to its customers or lock-in prices under long-term purchase agreements. The Company relies on a relatively small number of customers for a significant share of its revenues. The loss of business from any of these significant customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and its operating results. The Company faces intense competition due to the highly competitive nature of the mechanical contracting market that could limit its ability to increase its market share and its revenues. During the construction period, owners or general contractors may require the Company to perform certain work which is a change to or in addition to the original contract. Such work often requires months to obtain formal change orders (including dollar amounts). Change orders are often the subject of dispute and sometimes litigation. The failure of an owner or general contractor to issue change orders or make payments could delay receipt of receivables and require litigation to collect sums due the Company. Slow receipt of collections may also result from financial difficulties of a general contractor or an owner. The Company’s inability to collect its contract balance on a project could have a material adverse effect on its operating results. Although the Company’s operations are not directly affected by inflation, both New York City and New York State have large debt service burdens. Inflationary pressures historically have tended to result in a reduction in capital spending by both state and local agencies; such capital expenditure reductions in turn could have a negative impact on the Company’s revenues. Failure of the Company’s subcontractors or providers of equipment to perform as anticipated could have a negative impact on the Company’s results. The Company subcontracts a portion of its contracts to specialty subcontractors, and the Company is ultimately responsible for the successful completion of their work. The Company also utilizes equipment manufacturers and suppliers which are responsible for delivering specified products on a timely basis. Although the Company utilizes highly respected companies and sometime requires performance bonds, there is no guarantee that the Company will not incur a material loss due to performance issues related to these arrangements. Accounting for contract related revenues and costs as well as other cost items requires management to make a variety of significant estimates and assumptions. Although the Company believes it has sufficient experience and processes to enable it to formulate appropriate assumptions and produce reliable estimates, these assumptions and estimates may change significantly in the future, and these changes could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and results of operations. The Company’s success depends on attracting and retaining qualified personnel in a competitive environment. The single largest factor in the Company’s ability to profitably execute its work is its ability to attract, develop and retain qualified personnel. The Company’s 9 success in attracting qualified personnel is dependent on the resources available, the impact of general economic conditions on the labor supply, and the ability to provide competitive compensation. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. ITEM 