1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the following risks, along with the other information contained in this Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that may affect us. Additional risks and uncertainties also may adversely affect our business and operations including those discussed in Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis. If any of the following events actually occur, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. Our merchant energy business may incur substantial costs and liabilities and be exposed to price volatility as a result of its participation in the wholesale energy markets. We buy and sell electricity in both the wholesale bilateral markets and spot markets, which expose us to the risks of rising and falling prices in those markets, and our cash flows may vary accordingly. At any given time, the wholesale spot-market price of electricity for each hour is generally determined by the cost of supplying the next unit of electricity to the market during that hour. This is highly dependent on the regional generation market. In many cases, the next unit of electricity supplied would be supplied from generating stations fueled by fossil fuels, primarily coal, natural gas, and oil. Consequently, the open market wholesale price of electricity may reflect the cost of coal, natural gas, or oil plus the cost to convert the fuel to electricity and an appropriate return on capital. Therefore, changes in the supply and cost of coal, natural gas, and oil may impact the open market wholesale price of electricity. A portion of our power generation facilities operate wholly or partially without long-term power purchase agreements. As a result, power from these facilities is sold on the spot market or on a short-term contractual basis, which if not fully hedged may affect the volatility of our financial results. In addition, our business depends upon transmission facilities owned and operated by others; if transmission is disrupted or capacity is inadequate or unavailable, our ability to sell and deliver our wholesale power may be limited. Currently, our power generation facilities purchase a portion of their fuel through short-term contracts or on the spot market. Fuel prices may also be volatile, and the price that can be obtained for power sales may not change at the same rate as changes in fuel costs. Also, our competitive energy businesses expose us to other risks, including credit risk and other risks relating to counterparties' failure to perform, and to the risk of commodity price fluctuations. Fuel price increases and defaults by suppliers and other counterparties may adversely affect our financial results. Volatility in market prices for fuel and electricity may result from among other things: •weather conditions, •seasonality, •electricity usage, •illiquid markets, •transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies, •availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources, •demand for energy commodities, •available supplies of natural gas, crude oil and refined products, and coal, •generating unit performance, •natural disasters, terrorism, wars, embargoes and other catastrophic events, •federal and state energy and environmental regulation, legislation and policies, •geopolitical concerns affecting global supply of oil and natural gas, and •general economic conditions, including downturns in the United States economy, which impact energy consumption. In addition to the risks discussed above, risks specifically affecting our success in competitive wholesale markets include the ability to efficiently operate generating assets, maintenance of the qualifying facility status of certain projects, transmission and transportation availability, competition from new sources of generation, and the level of generation capacity. Our inability or failure to effectively hedge our assets or positions against changes in commodity prices, interest rates, counterparty credit risk, or other risk measures could significantly impact our future financial results. The operation of power generation facilities, including nuclear facilities, involves significant risks that could adversely affect our financial results. The operation of power generation facilities involves many risks, including start up risks, breakdown or failure of equipment, transmission lines, substations or pipelines, use of new technology, the dependence on a specific fuel source, including the transportation of fuel, or the impact of unusual or adverse weather conditions (including natural disasters such as hurricanes) or environmental compliance, as well as the risk of performance below expected or contracted levels of output or efficiency. This could result in lost revenues and/or increased expenses. Insurance, warranties, or performance guarantees may not cover any or all of the lost revenues or increased expenses, including the cost of replacement power. A portion of our generation facilities were constructed many years ago. Older generating equipment may require significant capital expenditures to keep it operating at peak efficiency. This equipment is also likely to require periodic upgrading and improvement. Breakdown or failure of one of our operating facilities may prevent the facility 19 from performing under applicable power sales agreements which, in certain situations, could result in termination of the agreement or incurring a liability for liquidated damages. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that require capital expenditures, increase our cost of operations and may expose us to environmental liabilities. We are subject to extensive federal, state, and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, waste management, wildlife protection, the management of natural resources, and the protection of human health and safety that could, among other things, require additional pollution control equipment, limit the use of certain fuels, restrict the output of certain facilities, or otherwise increase costs. Significant capital expenditures, operating and other costs are associated with compliance with environmental requirements, and these expenditures and costs could become even more significant in the future as a result of regulatory changes. For example, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) recently adopted the Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR), which requires further reductions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions from fossil fuel-fired plants located primarily in the Eastern United States, where many of our plants are located, and the Clean Air Mercury Rule (CAMR), which will regulate mercury emissions from coal-fired plants through a cap and trade program. In addition, the State of Maryland is considering requiring additional requirements to further reduce emissions of sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, carbon dioxide, and mercury from generating facilities located in that state. Because CAIR and CAMR are still in the process of being implemented by the affected states and the additional Maryland requirements are in the proposal stage, we do not yet know the precise impact on our financial results. The capital expenditures and compliance costs with new air emission standards could be significantly greater than currently estimated. The EPA also issued a rule under the Clean Water Act that will require certain of our plants to implement "best technology available" to minimize adverse effects to fish and shellfish from cooling water intake structures at those plants. The capital expenditures and compliance costs with the Clean Water Act intake requirements could be material to our financial results. We are subject to liability under environmental laws for the costs of remediating environmental contamination. Remediation activities include the cleanup of current facilities and former properties, including manufactured gas plant operations and offsite waste disposal facilities. The remediation costs could be significantly higher than the liabilities recorded by us. Also, our subsidiaries are currently involved in proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been released and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. We are subject to legal proceedings by individuals alleging injury from exposure to hazardous substances and could incur liabilities that may be material to our financial results. Additional proceedings could be filed against us in the future. We may also be required to assume environmental liabilities in connection with future acquisitions. As a result, we may be liable for significant environmental remediation costs and other liabilities arising from the operation of acquired facilities, which may adversely affect our financial results. We are exposed to risks relating to the ownership and operation of nuclear power plants. We own and operate nuclear power plants. Ownership and operation of these plants expose us to risks in addition to those that result from owning and operating non-nuclear power generation facilities. Risks associated specifically with the operation and cost of operation of nuclear plants include changing federal and state environmental requirements relating specifically to nuclear facilities, safety, terrorism, accidents at the nuclear plants, storage and ultimate disposal of spent nuclear fuel, disposal of hazardous materials and waste, monitoring of discharges into the environment, and any required remediation of any site that is identified as contaminated. Any of these risks could result in substantial liabilities or expenses for us and reduce our earnings or harm our liquidity. In addition, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) has the authority to modify, suspend or revoke the operating license for any of our nuclear power facilities if it determines that such action is necessary to ensure the public health and safety. Such action would have a negative impact on our financial results. In the event of a nuclear accident at one of our nuclear plants, the cost of property damage and other expenses incurred may exceed our insurance coverage available from both private sources and an industry mutual insurance company. In addition, in the event of an accident at one of our or another participating insured party's nuclear plants, we could be assessed retrospective insurance premiums. Uninsured losses or the payment of retrospective insurance premiums could each have a material adverse effect on our financial results. 20 BGE may not be able to recover costs incurred in satisfying its provider of last resort (POLR) obligations, which may adversely affect our, or BGE's, financial results and liquidity. Under the electric restructuring the state of Maryland enacted in 1999 and various settlements approved by the Maryland Public Service Commission (Maryland PSC) in 2003 and 2005, BGE is obligated to serve as the POLR for all retail customers in its service territories for various periods ending between 2007 and 2010. POLR obligations are the obligations of energy delivery businesses to provide electricity to customers that do not choose a competitive supplier and, by their nature, are difficult to quantify. As the POLR supplier, BGE is required to secure load requirements through a wholesale bidding process sufficient to serve those customers in its service territory in the event that customers do not choose alternate suppliers or if a third-party supplier is unable to satisfy its obligations. The settlements provide that BGE be able to recover all of its supply and certain other actual costs of providing POLR service. However, in early 2006, the Maryland PSC commenced a proceeding, and legislation was introduced in the Maryland General Assembly, to consider methods for requiring BGE to defer recovery of some of its costs of providing residential POLR service. These actions are a result of the anticipated increase in POLR prices expected to take place upon the expiration of the residential rate freeze in June 2006. Any decision by the Maryland PSC, or legislation adopted by the Maryland General Assembly, that would defer recovery of, or would not allow BGE to fully recover its costs could have a material impact on our financial results and liquidity. We often rely on single suppliers and at times on single customers, exposing us to significant financial risks if either should fail to perform their obligations. We often rely on a single supplier for the provision of fuel, water, and other services required for operation of a facility, and at times, we rely on a single customer or a few customers to purchase all or a significant portion of a facility's output, in some cases under long-term agreements that provide the support for any project debt used to finance the facility. The failure of any one customer or supplier to fulfill its contractual obligations could negatively impact our financial results. Consequently, our financial performance depends on the continued performance by customers and suppliers of their obligations under these long-term agreements. Reduced liquidity in the markets in which we operate could impair our ability to appropriately manage the risks of our operations. Over the past several years, several merchant energy businesses have ended or significantly reduced their activities as a result of several factors including government investigations, changes in market design and deteriorating credit quality. As a result, several regional energy markets experienced a significant decline in liquidity. While we have seen recent improvements in liquidity, future reductions in liquidity may restrict our ability to manage our risks, and could impact our financial results. We may not fully hedge our generation assets, competitive supply or other market positions against changes in commodity prices, and our hedging procedures may not work as planned. To lower our financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations, we routinely enter into contracts to hedge a portion of our purchase and sale commitments, weather positions, fuel requirements, inventories of natural gas, coal and other commodities, and competitive supply. As part of this strategy, we routinely utilize fixed-price forward physical purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps, and option contracts traded in the over-the-counter markets or on exchanges. However, we may not cover the entire exposure of our assets or positions to market price volatility and the coverage will vary over time. Fluctuating commodity prices may negatively impact our financial results to the extent we have unhedged positions. Our risk management policies and procedures may not always work as planned. As a result of these and other factors, we cannot predict with precision the impact that risk management decisions may have on our financial results. We are exposed to the risk of loss from counterparties' nonperformance. Nonperformance could be failure to provide energy or failure to pay for energy we provide a counterparty. Should counterparties fail to provide energy, we might be forced to enter into alternative arrangements or honor the underlying commitment at then-current market prices, which may result in higher costs to us. If the counterparties fail to pay for energy we provided, then our liquidity and financial results may be negatively impacted. In connection with our operations, we have, and will continue to, guarantee or indemnify the performance of a portion of the obligations of our subsidiaries. Some of these guarantees and indemnities are for fixed amounts, others have a fixed maximum amount, and others do not specify a maximum amount. We might not be able to satisfy all of these guarantees and indemnification obligations if they were to come due at the same time. 21 We operate in deregulated segments of the electric and gas industries created by restructuring initiatives at both state and federal levels. If competitive restructuring of the electric or gas industries is reversed, discontinued or delayed, our business prospects and financial results could be materially adversely affected. The regulatory environment applicable to the electric and gas industries has undergone substantial changes over the past several years as a result of restructuring initiatives at both the state and federal levels. These initiatives have had a significant impact on the nature of the electric and gas industries and the manner in which their participants conduct business. We have targeted the deregulated segments of the electric and gas industries created by these initiatives. These changes are ongoing and we cannot predict the future development of deregulation in these markets or the ultimate effect that this changing regulatory environment will have on our business. Moreover, existing regulations may be revised or reinterpreted, new laws and regulations may be adopted or become applicable to us or our facilities, and future changes in laws and regulations may have a detrimental effect on our business. Certain restructured markets (most notably California) have experienced supply problems and price volatility in the past. These supply problems and volatility have been the subject of a significant amount of publicity, much of which has been critical of the restructuring initiatives. In some of these markets, including California, proposals have been made by governmental agencies and/or other interested parties to re-regulate areas of these markets which have previously been deregulated. Other proposals to re-regulate may be made and legislative or other attention to the electric and gas restructuring process may delay or reverse the deregulation process. If competitive restructuring of the electric and gas markets is reversed, discontinued or delayed, our business prospects and financial results could be negatively impacted. Our financial results may be harmed if transportation and transmission availability is limited or unreliable. We depend on transportation and transmission facilities owned and operated by utilities and other energy companies to deliver the electricity, coal, and natural gas we sell to the wholesale and retail markets, as well as the natural gas and coal we purchase to supply some of our generating facilities. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) requires wholesale electric transmission services to be offered on an open access, non-discriminatory basis. However, sufficient transmission services are not always available. If transportation or transmission is disrupted, or transportation or transmission capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver products may be hindered. Such disruptions could also hinder our providing electricity or natural gas to our retail electric and gas customers and may materially adversely affect our financial results. Our merchant energy business has contractual obligations to certain customers to provide full requirements service, which makes it difficult to predict and plan for load requirements and may result in increased operating costs to our business. Our merchant energy business has contractual obligations to certain customers to supply requirements service to such customers to satisfy all or a portion of their energy requirements. The uncertainty regarding the amount of load that our merchant energy business must be prepared to supply to customers may increase our operating costs. A significant under- or over-estimation of load requirements could result in our merchant energy business not having enough or having too much power to cover its load obligation, in which case it would be required to buy or sell power from or to third parties at prevailing market prices. Those prices may not be favorable and thus could increase our operating costs. Our financial results may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis. Our business is affected by seasonal weather conditions. Consequently, our overall operating results may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis, and the pattern of this fluctuation may change depending on the nature and location of any facility we acquire and the terms of any contract to which we become a party. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas and affect the price of energy commodities. Generally, demand for electricity peaks in winter and summer and demand for gas peaks in the winter. Typically, when winters are warmer than expected and summers are cooler than expected, demand for energy is lower, resulting in less electric and gas consumption than forecasted. Depending on prevailing market prices for electricity and gas, these and other unexpected conditions may reduce our revenues and results of operations. First and third quarter financial results, in particular, are substantially dependent on weather conditions, and may make period comparisons less relevant. A downgrade in our credit ratings could negatively affect our ability to access capital and/or operate our wholesale and retail competitive supply businesses. We rely on access to capital markets as a source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by operating cash flows. If any of our credit ratings were to be downgraded, especially below investment grade, our 22 ability to raise capital on favorable terms, including the commercial paper markets, could be hindered, and our borrowing costs would increase. Additionally, the business prospects of our wholesale and retail competitive supply businesses, which in many cases rely on the creditworthiness of Constellation Energy, would be negatively impacted. Some of the factors that affect credit ratings are cash flows, liquidity, and the amount of debt as a component of total capitalization. We, and BGE in particular, are subject to extensive state and federal regulation that could affect our operations and costs. We are subject to regulation under environmental laws, the Federal Power Act, the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 and the Energy Policy Act of 2005, and certain sections of Maryland and other state statutes relating to public utilities, and the operation of electric or natural gas facilities. Changing governmental policies and regulatory actions can have a significant impact on us, including those of FERC, the NRC, the Maryland PSC, and the utility commissions of other states in which we have operations. State and Federal regulations can impact, among other things, the following: •allowed rates of return, •industry and rate structure, •operation of nuclear power plants, •operation and construction of plant facilities, •operation and construction of transmission facilities, •acquisition, disposal, depreciation and amortization of assets and facilities, •transactions between subsidiaries and affiliates, •recovery of fuel and purchased power costs, •recovery of storm-related repair costs, •decommissioning costs, •return on common equity and equity ratio limits, •payment of dividends, and •present or prospective wholesale and retail competition (including but not limited to retail choice and transmission costs). Certain regulatory commissions also have the authority to disallow recovery of any and all costs that they consider excessive or imprudently incurred. In addition, BGE holds franchise agreements with local municipalities and counties, and must renegotiate expiring agreements. These factors may have a negative impact on our business and financial results. BGE's Maryland distribution rates are subject to regulation by the Maryland PSC, and such rates are effective until new base rates are approved. In addition, limited categories of costs are recovered through adjustment charges that are periodically reset to reflect current costs. Inability to recover material costs not included in base rates or adjustment clauses, including increases in uncollectible customer accounts that may result from higher gas and/or electric costs, could have an adverse effect on our financial results. As a result, the regulatory process may restrict our ability to grow earnings in certain parts of our business, can cause delays in or affect business planning and transactions, can increase our costs, and does not provide any assurance as to achievement of earnings levels. We operate in a changing market environment influenced by various legislative and regulatory initiatives regarding deregulation, regulation or restructuring of the energy industry, including deregulation of the production and sale of electricity. We will need to adapt to these changes, which could restrict our ability to continue to grow our nonregulated businesses. In addition, we may face increasing competitive pressures in our nonregulated businesses. Poor market performance will affect our benefit plan and nuclear decommissioning trust asset values, which may adversely affect our liquidity and financial results. Our qualified pension obligations have exceeded the fair value of our plan assets since 2001. At December 31, 2005, our qualified pension obligations were $345.1 million greater than the fair value of our plan assets. The performance of the capital markets will affect the value of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy our future obligations under our qualified pension plans. A decline in the market value of those assets may increase our funding requirements for these obligations, which may adversely affect our liquidity and financial results. We are required to maintain funded trusts to satisfy our future obligations to decommission our nuclear power plants. A decline in the market value of those assets due to poor investment performance or other factors may increase our funding requirements for these obligations, which may have an adverse affect on our liquidity and financial results. War and threats of terrorism and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism may impact our results of operations in unpredictable ways. We do not know the impact that any potential future terrorist attacks may have on the energy industry in general and on our business in particular. In addition, any retaliatory military strikes or sustained military campaign may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, such as changes in insurance markets and disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil. The possibility alone that infrastructure facilities, such as electric generation, electric and gas transmission and distribution facilities, would be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror may affect our operations. 23 Such activity may have an adverse effect on the United States economy in general. A lower level of economic activity might result in a decline in energy consumption, which may adversely affect our financial results or restrict our future growth. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war may affect our stock price and our ability to raise capital. We are subject to employee workforce factors that could affect our businesses and financial results. We are subject to employee workforce factors, including loss or retirement of key executives or other employees, availability of qualified personnel, collective bargaining agreements with union employees, and work stoppage that could affect our financial results. We may be unable to obtain the approvals required to complete our merger with FPL Group Inc. (FPL Group) or, in order to do so, the combined company may be required to comply with material restrictions or conditions. On December 19, 2005, we announced the execution of a merger agreement with FPL Group. Before the merger may be completed, shareholder approval will have to be obtained by us and by FPL Group. In addition, various filings must be made with FERC, NRC and various utility regulatory, antitrust and other authorities in the United States. These governmental authorities may impose conditions on the completion, or require changes to the terms, of the merger, including restrictions or conditions on the business, operations, or financial performance of the combined company following completion of the merger. These conditions or changes could have the effect of delaying completion of the merger or imposing additional costs on or limiting the revenues of the combined company following the merger, which could have a material adverse effect on the financial results of the combined company and/or cause either us or FPL Group to abandon the merger. If we are unable to complete the merger, we still will incur and will remain liable for significant transaction costs, including legal, accounting, financial advisory, filing, printing and other costs relating to the merger whether or not it is completed, which we estimate to be approximately $40 million. Also, depending upon the reasons for not completing the merger, including whether we have received or entered into a competing takeover proposal, we may be required to pay FPL Group a termination fee of up to $425 million. The occurrence of either of these events individually or in combination could have a material adverse affect on our financial results. If completed, our merger with FPL Group may not achieve its intended results. We and FPL Group entered into the merger agreement with the expectation that the merger would result in various benefits, including, among other things, cost savings and operating efficiencies primarily relating to the nonregulated businesses. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the merger is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether the businesses of Constellation Energy and FPL Group are integrated in an efficient and effective manner. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues generated by the combined company and diversion of management's time and energy and could have an adverse effect on the combined company's business, financial results and prospects. We will be subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the merger with FPL Group is pending that could adversely affect our financial results. Uncertainty about the effect of the merger with FPL Group on employees and customers may have an adverse effect on us. Although we intend to take steps designed to reduce any adverse effects, these uncertainties may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the merger is completed and for a period of time thereafter, and could cause customers, suppliers and others that deal with us to seek to change existing business relationships. Employee retention and recruitment may be particularly challenging prior to the completion of the merger, as employees and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company. If, despite our retention and recruiting efforts, key employees depart or fail to accept employment with us because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with the combined company, our financial results could be affected. The pursuit of the merger and the preparation for the integration of Constellation Energy and FPL Group may place a significant burden on management and internal resources. The diversion of management attention away from day-to-day business concerns and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could affect our financial results. In addition, the merger agreement restricts us, without FPL Group's consent, from making certain acquisitions and taking other specified actions until the merger occurs or the merger agreement terminates. These restrictions may prevent us from pursuing otherwise attractive business opportunities and making other changes to our business prior to completion of the merger or termination of the merger agreement. 24 