Item 1A. Risk Factors Changes in Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect Results of Operations and Financial Condition. The Bank’s ability to make a profit largely depends on net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. The interest income earned on interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities are generally fixed for a contractual period of time. Interest-bearing liabilities generally have shorter contractual maturities than interest-earning assets. This imbalance can create significant earnings volatility, because market interest rates change over time. In a period of rising interest rates, the interest income earned on interest-earning assets may not increase as rapidly as the interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. In addition, changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities. A reduction in interest rates causes increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities as borrowers refinance their debt to reduce their borrowing costs. This creates reinvestment risk, which is the risk that the Bank may not be able to reinvest the funds from faster prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates earned on the prepaid loans or securities. Conversely, an increase in interest rates generally reduces prepayments. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable-rate loans. Changes in interest rates also affect the current market value of the interest-earning securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. Unrealized net losses on securities-available-for-sale are reported as a separate component of equity. To the extent interest rates increase and the value of the available-for-sale portfolio decreases, stockholders’ equity will be adversely affected. Increased emphasis on commercial lending may expose the Bank to increased lending risks. At December 31, 2007, $381.0 million, or 22.5%, of the Bank’s total loans consisted of commercial, multi-family and land real estate loans, and commercial business loans. This portfolio has grown in recent years and the Bank intends to continue to emphasize these types of lending. These types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one-to-four family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the borrowers. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one-to-four family residential mortgage loans. Also, many of the Bank’s commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose the Bank to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one-to-four family residential mortgage loan. 30 Table of Contents A downturn in the local economy or a decline in real estate values could hurt profits. Most of the Bank’s loans are secured by real estate or are made to businesses in Ocean and Monmouth Counties, New Jersey and the surrounding area. As a result of this concentration, a downturn in the local economy could cause significant increases in nonperforming loans, which would hurt profits. In prior years there has been a significant increase in real estate values in the Bank’s market area. A decline in real estate values could cause some mortgage loans to become inadequately collateralized, which would expose the Bank to a greater risk of loss. The Bank operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. The Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision, the Bank’s chartering authority, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of deposits. The Company and the Bank are subject to regulation and supervision by the Office of Thrift Supervision. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and depositors. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on operations, the classification of assets and determination of the level of the allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on operations. The Company’s allowance for loan losses may be inadequate, which could hurt the Company’s earnings. The Company’s allowance for loan losses may prove to be inadequate to cover actual loan losses and if the Company is required to increase its allowance, current earnings may be reduced. When borrowers default and do not repay the loans that the Bank makes to them, the Company may lose money. The Company’s experience shows that some borrowers either will not pay on time or will not pay at all, which will require the Company to cancel or “charge-off” the defaulted loan or loans. The Company provides for losses by reserving what it believes to be an adequate amount to absorb any probable inherent losses. A “charge-off” reduces the Company’s reserve for possible loan losses. If the Company’s reserves were insufficient, it would be required to record a larger reserve, which would reduce earnings for that period. The Bank may be required to repurchase mortgage loans for an Early Payment Default or a breach of representations and warranties, which could harm the Company’s earnings. The Bank’s subsidiary, Columbia, entered into loan sale agreements with investors in the normal course of business. The loan sale agreements generally required the repurchase of certain loans previously sold in the event of an Early Payment Default or a violation of various representations and warranties customary to the mortgage banking industry. The repurchased mortgage loans could typically only be resold at a significant discount to the unpaid principal balance. The Bank maintains a reserve for repurchased loans, however, if repurchase activity is significant, the reserve may prove to be inadequate to cover actual losses which could harm future earnings. In September 2007, all loan origination activity at Columbia was discontinued. A portion of Columbia’s loan production consisted of “subprime” loans, which are loans made to individuals whose borrowing needs are generally not fulfilled by traditional loan products because they do not satisfy the credit documentation or other underwriting standards prescribed by conventional mortgage lenders and loan buyers. In March 2007, Columbia discontinued the origination of sub-prime loans. In the event the Bank is required to repurchase a significant amount of subprime loans, the Bank may be required to hold such loans in portfolio for an extended period of time or to maturity, if such loans cannot be later resold. Subprime loans generally have a higher incidence of delinquency, foreclosure and bankruptcy, which may be substantially higher than that experienced by mortgage loans underwritten in a more traditional manner. Such risk associated with subprime loans may be increased during periods of economic slow-downs, increasing interest rates, and events that affect specifically the geographic areas in which the loans are made. Moreover, as many of the subprime loans made by Columbia have loan-to-value ratios of 100%, there would be little, if any, equity to fully recover the net carrying value of the loan in the event of default and foreclosure. In such event, the Company may be required to substantially increase 31 Table of Contents its allowance for loan losses which would reduce earnings for that period. The Bank has entered into settlements with some investors which may limit the Bank’s obligation to repurchase mortgage loans for an Early Payment Default or a breach of a representation or warranty. For the year ended December 31, 2007 Columbia originated subprime loans of $38.6 million, or 16.0% of the total loans Columbia originated. For the year ended December 31, 2006, Columbia originated subprime loans of $299.8 million, or 41.2% of the total loans Columbia originated. The Company’s mortgage servicing rights may become impaired which could hurt profits. Mortgage servicing rights are carried at the lower of cost or fair value. Any impairment is recognized as a reduction to servicing fee income. In the event that loan prepayments increase due to increased loan refinancing, the fair value of mortgage servicing rights would likely decline. The Company’s inability to achieve profitability on new branches may negatively affect earnings. The Bank continues to expand its presence within the market area through de novo branching. The profitability of this expansion strategy will depend on whether the income from the new branches will offset the increased expenses resulting from operating these branches. It is expected to take a period of time before these branches can become profitable. During this period, the expense of operating these branches may negatively affect net income. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 