Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, operations and financial condition. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report of Form 10-K because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. This section does not describe all risks applicable to our business, and we intend it only as a summary of certain material factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected. In that case, the trading price of our stock could decline. We intend to expand our business into new areas of operation. Our business model calls for seeking to acquire existing cash flowing operations and to expand our operations and branch out into other related areas of business. While we intend to retain our focus on the health care industry, our success will largely depend on our ability to expand geographically into new areas of business within our general industry. As a result, we expect to experience all of the risks that generally occur with expansion into new areas. Many of these risks are out of our control, including risks such as: · adapting our management systems and personnel into new areas of business; · integrating new businesses into our structure; · obtaining adequate financing under acceptable terms; · where applicable, securing joint venture arrangements with local hospitals, churches, universities, and other entities; - 3 - - Table of Contents · retention of key personnel, customers and vendors of the acquired business; · impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets; and · contingent and latent risks associated with the past operations of, and other unanticipated costs and problems arising in, an acquired business. If we are unable to successfully integrate the operations of an acquired business into our operations, we could be required to undertake unanticipated changes. These changes could have a material adverse effect on our business. Since we went public in November, 2006, we have not expanded into new areas of business. We may need additional financing to complete our long-term acquisition and expansion plans, and we do not have commitments for additional financing. To achieve our growth objectives, we will need to obtain sufficient financial resources to fund our expansion, development and acquisition activities. We believe we may need to secure debt financing in order to help us leverage our equity resources and make further acquisitions. As of December 31, 2009 we had an accumulated deficit of $9,805,249 and working capital of approximately $2,658,000. Our cumulative losses have, in the past, made it difficult for us to borrow adequate funds on what management believed to be commercially reasonable terms. To date, we do not have any commitments for such financing and there can be no assurance that adequate financing will be available on terms that are acceptable to us, if at all. In addition, our Board of Directors may elect to use our stock as “currency” in acquiring additional businesses. If so, our stockholders may experience dilution. We currently have a line of credit in place which may be insufficient to satisfy short-term cash needs. In November 2008, we established a $100,000 line of credit with Huntington National Bank to assist with cash flow. As of December 31, 2009, the entire line of credit was available for use in operations of the Company. During 2008, we established a $150,000 line of credit using funds from our non-qualified deferred compensation plan. Members of this plan, which is only available to senior management, authorized the transfer of funds to establish the line of credit with interest accruing at 8%. As of December 31, 2009, the entire line of credit was available for use in operations of the Company. Businesses typically use lines of credit to finance short-term and unexpected cash needs. There can be no assurances that these lines of credit will be sufficient in the event of an acute cash deficit. Therefore, we intend to secure additional lines of credit or increases in our existing lines but we can provide no assurance that it will be available on acceptable terms, if at all, or that the amount of any line of credit obtained will be sufficient to handle future cash needs as they arise. Our business is concentrated in Ohio, making it subject to increased risks as a result of potential declines in the Ohio economy. To date, all of our properties are located within the State of Ohio. In recent years, the economy in the State of Ohio has lagged behind the economic growth in other areas of the country. While we intend to explore expansion into other geographic areas, we are, to some extent, dependent upon the economy of the State of Ohio and the surrounding region. To date, we do not believe that the slow growth of the Ohio economy has negatively impacted our business. We have a history of operating losses and may incur losses in the future as we expand. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we had a net income of $440,283 compared to a net loss of $1,076,178 for the year ended December 31, 2008. Therefore, we have only recently had profitable operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able maintain profitable operations as we expand. As of December 31, 2009, we have working capital of approximately $2,658,000. Management’s plans with the objective of improving liquidity and profitability in future years encompass the following: · refinancing debt where possible to obtain more favorable terms. · increase facility occupancy. - 4 - - Table of Contents · add additional management contracts. · acquire existing cash flowing operations to expand our operations and branch out into other related areas of business. Management believes that the actions that will be taken by the Company provide the opportunity for the Company to improve liquidity and maintian profitability. However, there can be no assurance that such events will occur. Assisted living and skilled nursing facility financial stability could be negatively impacted by the current economic conditions. Approximately 19% of our skilled nursing occupants and nearly all the occupants of our assisted living facilities rely on their personal investments and wealth to pay for their stay in our facilities. Recent declines in market values of investments could limit their ability to pay for services or shorten the period of time for which they can pay privately for their stay. The declining market for the sale of homes could limit their ability to sell their personal assets further reducing their ability to remain in our facilities. Furthermore, adult children who have recently become unemployed may decide to care for their parent at home so that their parent’s income may help offset some of their own financial burdens. While we have not found these circumstances to have a material effect on financial results to date, the length of the economic downturn and eventual recovery could begin to manifest in these areas reducing facility occupancy, financial performance and cash flow. We are engaged in an evolving and highly-regulated industry, which increases the cost of doing business and may require us to change the way our business is conducted. Health care is an area of extensive and frequent regulatory change. Changes in the laws or new interpretations of existing laws can have a significant effect on methods of doing business, cost of doing business, and amounts of reimbursements from the government and other payers. Our assisted living residences and nursing homes are subject to regulation and licensing by state and local health and social service agencies and other regulatory authorities. We are and will continue to be subject to varying degrees of regulation and licensing by health or social service agencies. A failure to comply with applicable requirements could cause us to be fined or could cause the cessation of our business, which would have a material adverse effect on our company. The manner and the extent to which assisted living is regulated at the federal and state level is evolving. Changes in the laws or new interpretations of existing laws may have a significant effect on our methods and costs of doing business. Our success will depend partially on our ability to satisfy the applicable regulations and requirements and to procure and maintain required licenses. Our operations could also be adversely affected by, among other things, regulatory developments such as mandatory increases in the scope and quality of care given to the residents and revisions in licensing and certification standards. We believe that our operations do not presently violate any existing federal or state laws. But there can be no assurance that federal, state, or local laws or regulatory procedures which might adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations for prospects will not be expanded or imposed. Changes in the methods of payment from Medicare and Medicaid or the reimbursement rates may adversely affect our revenues and operating margins. For the year ended December 31, 2009, Medicare and Medicaid constituted 30% and 51%, respectively, of our total patient care revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2008, Medicare and Medicaid constituted 25% and 53%, respectively, of our total patient care revenues. The health care industry is experiencing a strong trend towards cost containment. In general, the government has sought to impose lower reimbursement and resource utilization group rates, limit the scope of covered services, and negotiate reduced payment schedules with providers. These cost containment measures have generally resulted in reduced rates of reimbursement for the services provided by companies such as ours. - 5 - - Table of Contents Changes to Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement programs have limited, and are expected to continue to limit, payment increases under these programs. Also, the timing of Medicare and Medicaid program payments is subject to regulatory action and governmental budgetary constraints. In addition, federal and state government agencies may reduce the funds available under those programs in the future or require more stringent utilization and quality review of service providers such as us. State regulatory changes also affect our business. In the budget passed by the Ohio General Assembly effective July 1, 2005, significant changes were made to the Medicaid reimbursement formula for nursing homes. Under this new law, the cost reimbursement system, which had been in place since the early 1990’s, will be phased out and replaced with a pricing system that will reward both quality of care and efficiency in management operations. In July 2006, Medicaid began the transition to the new reimbursement system. Beginning in July 2010, the State of Ohio has proposed completing the transition to the new reimbursement system which would have the effect of reducing reimbursement at some of our nursing homes if approved. Additionally, the State of Ohio has stopped paying co-pays on dually eligible residents. For the time being, the Federal Government has picked up the costs of the co-pays no longer provided by the State of Ohio. We are not certain whether the Federal Government will continue this program in the long run. As a result, should Ohio continue to refuse co-pays on dually eligible residents and the Federal Government should stop such payments; a substantial amount of our co-pays could become uncollectible. An expanded Federal program is underway to recover Medicare overpayments. The Medicare Modernization Act of 2003 established a three year demonstration project to recover overpayments and identify underpayments on Medicare claims from hospitals, skilled nursing facilities and home health agencies through a review of claims previously paid by Medicare beginning in October, 2007. Medicare contracted nationwide with third parties known as Recovery Audit Contractors (“RAC”) to conduct these reviews commonly referred to as RAC Audits. Due to the success of the program, the Tax Relief and Healthcare Act of 2006 made the program permanent and mandated its expansion to all 50 states by 2010. As of March 31, 2010, we have not received notification that any of our claims are subject to RAC Audits however, we can make no assurances that our claims will not be selected for RAC Audits in the future and if they are the extent to which these audits may reduce our revenue or otherwise hinder cash flow. For the year ended December 31, 2009, approximately 30% of our patient care revenue was from Medicare. State Certificate of Need laws and other regulations could negatively impact our ability to grow our nursing home business. The State of Ohio, and other states in which we could expand, have adopted Certificate of Need or similar laws that generally require that a state agency approve certain nursing home acquisitions and determine the need for certain nursing home bed additions, new services, capital expenditures, or other changes prior to the acquisition or addition of beds or services, the implementation of other changes, or expenditure of capital. State approvals are generally issued for specified maximum expenditures and require implementation of the proposal within a specified period of time. Failure to obtain the necessary state approval can result in the inability to provide the service, to operate the centers, to complete the acquisition, addition, or other change, and can also result in sanctions or adverse action on the center’s license and adverse reimbursement action. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain Certificate of Need approval for all future projects requiring the approval, or that approvals will be timely. Due to the high-risk circumstances in which we conduct business, we may encounter liability claims in excess of insurance coverage. The provision of health care services entails an inherent risk of liability. In recent years, participants in the long-term care industry have become subject to an increasing number of lawsuits alleging malpractice or related legal theories, many of which involve large claims and significant defense costs. We currently maintain $1,000,000 in liability insurance for any one exposure. This insurance is intended to cover malpractice and other lawsuits. Although we believe that it is in keeping with industry standards, there can be no assurance that claims in excess of our limits will not arise. Any such successful claims could have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition and results of operations. Claims against us, regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, may also have a material adverse effect upon our ability to attract and retain business. In addition, our insurance policies must be renewed annually and there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain coverage in the future or, if coverage is available, that it will be available on acceptable terms. - 6 - - Table of Contents We encounter intense competition from competitors, many of whom have greater resources than AdCare. The long-term care industry is highly competitive and we believe that it will become even more competitive in the future. Our assisted living facilities and nursing homes compete with numerous companies providing similar long-term care alternatives, such as home health care agencies, community-based service programs, retirement communities and convalescent centers, and other assisted living providers. We compete with national companies such as HCR Manor Care, Alterra and Extended Care with respect to both our nursing home and assisted living facilities. We also compete with locally owned entities such as Health Care Facilities-HCF on a regional basis. Historically, we have found that the entry of one or more of these competitors into one of our established markets can reduce both our occupancy and the rates we are able to charge to our customers. In the past, we have found national publicly traded competitors who are willing to enter into a market already served by us. When these competitors experienced lower than expected occupancies, they relied on their greater financial resources to reduce their rates in order to increase occupancy. This resulted in our occupancies decreasing below expected levels. Eventually, demographics improved and rates stabilized. However, there can be no assurance that similar events will not occur in the future which could limit our ability to attract residents or expand our business and that could have a negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. We can provide no assurance that competitive pressures will not have a material adverse effect on us. The home health care business is also highly competitive. Since we first acquired Assured Health Care in 2005, its operations remain relatively centralized in the Dayton, Ohio area. However, in that area, Assured faces competition from several sources including, without limitation, Fidelity Nursing Home Systems, Kettering Network Home Care, GEM City Home Care, Greene Memorial Hospital Home Care, and Community Springfield. Our business is very labor intensive, we operate in smaller markets with limited personnel resources, and our success is tied to our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. We compete with other providers of home health care, nursing home care, and assisted living with respect to attracting and retaining qualified personnel. We depend on the availability of Registered Nurses and Licensed Practical Nurses to provide skilled care to our nursing home residents. According to the Ohio Hospital Association, the supply of nurses nationwide is predicted to be 800,000 short of demand by 2020. Another study conducted by Dr. David I. Auerbach for the journal Health Affairs estimated the shortage to increase to 340,000 by 2020. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, “employment of registered nurses is expected to grow 23 percent [or 587,000 jobs] from 2006 to 2016, much faster than the average for all occupations”. The Bureau of Labor Statistics also reports “employment of LPNs is expected to grow 14 percent [or 105,000 jobs] between 2006 and 2016, faster than the average for all occupations, in response to the long-term care needs of an increasing elderly population and the general increase in demand for health care services”. While the experts may not agree on the size of the shortage, they all appear to agree that there is and will continue to be a shortage. Because of the small markets in which we operate, shortages of nurses and/or trained personnel may require us to enhance our wage and benefit package in order to compete and lure qualified employees from more metropolitan areas. To date, we have been able to adequately staff all of our operations. However, we can provide no assurance that our labor costs will not increase, or that, if they do increase, they can be matched by corresponding increases in revenues. We are dependent on our management team and the loss of any of these individuals would harm our business. Our future success depends largely upon the management experience, skill, and contacts of our officers and directors, in particular, David A. Tenwick, our Chairman, Gary L. Wade, our President and CEO, Christopher Brogdon our Vice Chairman and Chief Acquisitions Officer and Scott Cunningham, our Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Tenwick, Mr. Wade and Mr. Cunningham, have each signed employment contracts that are effective through September 2011. Mr. Brogdon does not currently have an employment agreement. Loss of the services of any or all of these officers could be materially detrimental to our operations. In addition, due to the location of our corporate headquarters in a smaller urban region, we may experience difficulty attracting senior managers in the future. - 7 - - Table of Contents Our business is largely dependent on short-term management contracts that may not be renewed from year to year. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, approximately 7.0% and 7.2%, respectively, of our total revenues were generated from management contracts to manage senior living and long-term care facilities. These contracts generally have terms of three years with options to renew at the end of the term. Each contract can be terminated without cause by either party on nine months notice and may be terminated earlier for cause. There can be no assurance that the contracts will be renewed at the end of the present terms, or that our customers will not exercise their ability to terminate the contracts earlier. Our home healthcare business enters into one year contracts with various agencies to provide home care services to clients and members of those agencies. There can be no assurance that existing contracts will be renewed in 2010 or later. We own multiple parcels of real estate and could be subject to environmental liability for hazardous substances found on any of those parcels, whether or not we caused the contamination. While we are not aware of any potential problems at this time, we own multiple parcels of real estate, each of which is subject to various federal, state, and local environmental laws, ordinances, and regulations. Many of these laws and regulations provide that a current or previous owner of real property may be held liable for the cost of removing hazardous or toxic substances, including materials containing asbestos that would be located on, in, or under the property. These laws and regulations often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. The cost of the removal is generally not limited under the laws and regulations and could exceed the property's value and the aggregate assets of the owner or operator. The presence of these substances or failure to remediate such substances properly may also adversely affect the owner's ability to sell or rent the property or to borrow using the property as collateral. If any of our properties were found to have environmental issues, we may be required to expend significant amounts to rehabilitate the property and we may be subject to significant liability. The price of our securities may be subject to fluctuation. The market price of our common stock and warrants will likely be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: · variations in our operating results; · changes in the general economy, and more specifically the Ohio economy or in the local economies in which we operate; · the financial markets; the state and length of the present bear market and when the market may recover; · the departure of any of our key executive officers and directors; · the level and quality of securities analysts’ coverage for our common stock; · announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · changes in the federal, state, and local health-care regulations to which we are subject; and · future sales of our common stock. For these reasons, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on past results as an indication of future performance. - 8 - - Table of Contents Our management substantially controls all major decisions. Our directors and officers beneficially own approximately 34.1% of our outstanding common shares. Therefore, our directors and officers will be able to influence major corporate actions required to be voted on by stockholders, such as the election of directors, the amendment of our charter documents, and the approval of significant corporate transactions such as mergers, reorganizations, sales of substantially all of our assets, and liquidation. Furthermore, our directors will be able to make decisions affecting our capital structure, including decisions to issue additional capital stock, implement stock repurchase programs and incur indebtedness. This control may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers, delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in management, or limiting the ability of our other stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interest. As we expand our operations, we may open or manage facilities that are geographically near other facilities that we operate or manage. While the facilities that we own and manage are sufficiently well-spaced so that they do not currently compete for business, there can be no assurance in the future, as we grow, that circumstances will not arise where facilities which we own and/or manage will compete with each other for patients. If this were to occur, it may damage our relationships with facilities that we manage that could result in the termination of our management agreements. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources and distract our management. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. These requirements may place a strain on our systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls for financial reporting. We are required to document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and, although not currently required, a report by our independent registered public accountants addressing these assessments. During the course of our testing, we may identify deficiencies which we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. In addition, if we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight is required. This may divert management's attention from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, we may need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so in a timely fashion. Takeover defense provisions may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Various provisions of Ohio corporation law and of our corporate governance documents may inhibit changes in control not approved by our Board of Directors and may have the effect of depriving our investors of an opportunity to receive a premium over the prevailing market price of our common stock in the event of an attempted hostile takeover. In addition, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and warrants. These provisions include: · a requirement that special meetings of stockholders be called by our Board of Directors, the Chairman, the President, or the holders of shares with voting power of at least 25%; · staggered terms among our directors with these classes of directors and only one class to be elected each year; · advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; and · availability of "blank check" preferred stock. - 9 - - Table of Contents Provisions in our bylaws provide for indemnification of officers and directors, which could require us to direct funds away from our business and future products. Our Articles of Incorporation and Code of Regulations provide for the indemnification of our officers and directors. We may be required to advance costs incurred by an officer or director and to pay judgments, fines and expenses incurred by an officer or director, including reasonable attorneys' fees, as a result of actions or proceedings in which our officers and directors are involved by reason of being or having been an officer or director of our company. Funds paid in satisfaction of judgments, fines and expenses may be funds we need for the operation of our business and the development of our product candidates, thereby affecting our ability to attain or maintain profitability. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 