Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the following risks, along with the other information contained in this Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that may affect us. Additional risks and uncertainties also may adversely affect our business and operations including those discussed in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis. If any of the following events actually occur, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. Our merchant energy business may incur substantial costs and liabilities and be exposed to price volatility and counterparty performance risk as a result of its participation in the wholesale energy markets. We purchase and sell power and fuel in markets exposed to significant risks, including price volatility for electricity and fuel and the credit risks of counterparties with which we enter into trades. We use various hedging strategies in an effort to mitigate many of these risks. However, hedging transactions do not guard against all risks and are not always effective, as they are based upon predictions about future market conditions. The inability or failure to effectively hedge assets or fuel or power positions against changes in commodity prices, interest rates, counterparty credit risk or other risk measures could significantly impair future financial results. Exposure to electricity price volatility. We buy and sell electricity in both the wholesale bilateral markets and spot markets, which exposes us to the risks of rising and falling prices in those markets, and our cash flows may vary accordingly. At any given time, the wholesale spot market price of electricity for each hour is generally determined by the cost of supplying the next unit of electricity to the market during that hour. This is highly dependent on the regional generation market. In many cases, the next unit of electricity supplied would be supplied from generating stations fueled by fossil fuels, primarily coal, natural gas and oil. Consequently, the open market wholesale price of electricity may reflect the cost of coal, natural gas or oil plus the cost to convert the fuel to electricity and an appropriate return on capital. Therefore, changes in the supply and cost of coal, natural gas and oil may impact the open market wholesale price of electricity. A portion of our power generation facilities operates wholly or partially without long-term power purchase agreements. As a result, power from these facilities is sold on the spot market or on a short-term contractual basis, which if not fully hedged may affect the volatility of our financial results. Exposure to fuel cost volatility. Currently, our power generation facilities purchase a portion of their fuel through short-term contracts or on the spot market. Fuel prices can be volatile, and the price that can be obtained for power produced from such fuel may not change at the same rate as fuel costs. As a result, fuel price increases may adversely affect our financial results. Exposure to counterparty performance. Our merchant energy business enters into trades and hedging transactions with numerous third parties (commonly referred to as “counterparties”). In such arrangements, we are exposed to the credit risks of our counterparties and the risk that one or more counterparties may fail to perform their obligations to make payments or deliver fuel or power. These risks are enhanced during periods of commodity price fluctuations, such as is currently being experienced in the United States. Defaults by suppliers and other counterparties may adversely affect our financial results. The operation of power generation facilities, including nuclear facilities, involves significant risks that could adversely affect our financial results. We own and operate a number of power generation facilities. The operation of power generation facilities involves many risks, including start up risks, breakdown or failure of equipment, transmission lines, substations or pipelines, use of new technology, the dependence on a specific fuel source, including the transportation of fuel, or the impact of unusual or adverse weather conditions (including natural disasters such as hurricanes) or environmental compliance, as well as the risk of performance below expected or contracted levels of output or efficiency. This could result in lost revenues and/or increased expenses. Insurance, warranties, or performance guarantees may not cover any or all of the lost revenues or increased expenses, including the cost of replacement power. A portion of our generation facilities were constructed many years ago. Older generating equipment may require significant capital expenditures to keep it operating at peak efficiency. This equipment is also likely to require periodic upgrading and improvement. Breakdown or failure of one of our operating facilities may prevent the facility from performing under applicable power sales agreements which, in certain situations, could result in termination of the agreement or incurring a liability for liquidated damages. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that require capital expenditures, increase our cost of operations and may expose us to environmental liabilities. We are subject to extensive federal, state, and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, waste management, wildlife protection, the management of natural resources, and the protection of human health and safety that could, among other things, require additional pollution control equipment, limit the use of certain fuels, restrict the 18 output of certain facilities, or otherwise increase costs. Significant capital expenditures, operating and other costs are associated with compliance with environmental requirements, and these expenditures and costs could become even more significant in the future as a result of regulatory changes. For example, the State of Maryland has enacted the Healthy Air Act and the Clean Power Rule, which will require, among other things, more rapid emission reductions by Maryland power generation facilities (including those owned and operated by us) than is required by current federal laws and regulations. We are subject to liability under environmental laws for the costs of remediating environmental contamination. Remediation activities include the cleanup of current facilities and former properties, including manufactured gas plant operations and offsite waste disposal facilities. The remediation costs could be significantly higher than the liabilities recorded by us. Also, our subsidiaries are currently involved in proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been released and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. We are subject to legal proceedings by individuals alleging injury from exposure to hazardous substances and could incur liabilities that may be material to our financial results. Additional proceedings could be filed against us in the future. We may also be required to assume environmental liabilities in connection with future acquisitions. As a result, we may be liable for significant environmental remediation costs and other liabilities arising from the operation of acquired facilities, which may adversely affect our financial results. Our generation business may incur substantial costs and liabilities due to its ownership and operation of nuclear generating facilities. We own and operate nuclear power plants. Ownership and operation of these plants exposes us to risks in addition to those that result from owning and operating non-nuclear power generation facilities. These risks include normal operating risks for a nuclear facility and the risks of a nuclear accident. Nuclear Operating Risks. The ownership and operation of nuclear generating facilities involve routine operating risks, including: ¨ mechanical or structural problems; ¨ inadequacy or lapses in maintenance protocols; ¨ impairment of reactor operation and safety systems due to human or mechanical error; ¨ costs of storage, handling and disposal of nuclear materials, including the availability or unavailability of a permanent repository for spent nuclear fuel; ¨ regulatory actions, including shut down of units because of public safety concerns, whether at our plants or other nuclear operators; ¨ limitations on the amounts and types of insurance coverage commercially available; ¨ uncertainties regarding both technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear generating facilities; and ¨ environmental risks, including risks associated with changes in environmental legal requirements. Nuclear Accident Risks. In the event of a nuclear accident, the cost of property damage and other expenses incurred may exceed our insurance coverage available from both private sources and an industry retrospective payment plan. In addition, in the event of an accident at one of our or another participating insured party’s nuclear plants, we could be assessed retrospective insurance premiums (because all nuclear plant operators contribute to a nationwide catastrophic insurance fund). Uninsured losses or the payment of retrospective insurance premiums could each have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We often rely on single suppliers and at times on single customers, exposing us to significant financial risks if either should fail to perform their obligations. We often rely on a single supplier for the provision of fuel, water, and other services required for operation of a facility, and at times, we rely on a single customer or a few customers to purchase all or a significant portion of a facility’s output, in some cases under long-term agreements that provide the support for any project debt used to finance the facility. The failure of any one customer or supplier to fulfill its contractual obligations could negatively impact our financial results. Consequently, our financial performance depends on the continued performance by customers and suppliers of their obligations under these long-term agreements. Reduced liquidity in the markets in which we operate could impair our ability to appropriately manage the risks of our operations. We are an active participant in energy markets through our competitive energy businesses. The liquidity of regional energy markets is an important factor in our ability to manage risks in these operations. Over the past several years, several merchant energy businesses have ended or significantly reduced their activities as a result of several factors including government investigations, changes in market design and deteriorating credit quality. As a result, several regional energy markets experienced a significant decline in liquidity. While there have been recent improvements in liquidity, future reductions in liquidity may restrict our ability to manage our risks, and could impact our financial results. 19 We may not fully hedge our generation assets, competitive supply or other market positions against changes in commodity prices, and our hedging procedures may not work as planned. To lower our financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations, we routinely enter into contracts to hedge a portion of our purchase and sale commitments, weather positions, fuel requirements, inventories of natural gas, coal and other commodities, and competitive supply. As part of this strategy, we routinely utilize fixed-price forward physical purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps, and option contracts traded in the over-the-counter markets or on exchanges. However, we may not cover the entire exposure of our assets or positions to market price volatility and the coverage will vary over time. Fluctuating commodity prices may negatively impact our financial results to the extent we have unhedged positions. In addition, daily value at risk and stop loss limits and liquidity guidelines are based on historical price movements. If prices significantly or persistently deviate from historical prices, the limits may not protect us from significant losses. Our risk management policies and procedures may not always work as planned. As a result of these and other factors, we cannot predict with precision the impact that risk management decisions may have on our financial results. The use of derivative contracts by us in the normal course of business could result in financial losses that negatively impact our financial results. We use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, to manage our commodity and financial market risks and to engage in trading activities. We could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these derivative instruments involves management’s judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these contracts. We operate in deregulated segments of the electric and gas industries created by federal and state restructuring initiatives. If competitive restructuring of the electric or gas industries is reversed, discontinued, restricted or delayed, our business prospects and financial results could be materially adversely affected. The regulatory environment applicable to the electric and natural gas industries has undergone substantial changes as a result of restructuring initiatives at both the state and federal levels. These initiatives have had a significant impact on the nature of the electric and natural gas industries and the manner in which their participants conduct their businesses. We have targeted the competitive segments of the electric and natural gas industries created by these initiatives. Due to recent events in the energy markets, energy companies have been under increased scrutiny by state legislatures, regulatory bodies, capital markets and credit rating agencies. This increased scrutiny could lead to substantial changes in laws and regulations affecting us, including modifications to the auction processes in competitive markets and new accounting standards that could change the way we are required to record revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. The Maryland energy legislation enacted in June 2006 is one example of how these laws can change. We cannot predict the future development of regulation in these markets or the ultimate effect that this changing regulatory environment will have on our business. If competitive restructuring of the electric and natural gas markets is reversed, discontinued, restricted or delayed, or if the recently enacted Maryland energy legislation is implemented or interpreted in a manner adverse to us, our business prospects and financial results could be negatively impacted. Our financial results may be harmed if transportation and transmission availability is limited or unreliable. We have business operations throughout the United States and internationally. As a result, we depend on transportation and transmission facilities owned and operated by utilities and other energy companies to deliver the electricity, coal, and natural gas we sell to the wholesale and retail markets, as well as the natural gas and coal we purchase to supply some of our generating facilities. If transportation or transmission is disrupted, or transportation or transmission capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver products may be hindered. Such disruptions could also hinder our ability to provide electricity or natural gas to our retail electric and gas customers and may materially adversely affect our financial results. Our merchant energy business has contractual obligations to certain customers to provide full requirements service, which makes it difficult to predict and plan for load requirements and may result in increased operating costs to our business. Our merchant energy business has contractual obligations to certain customers to supply full requirements service to such customers to satisfy all or a portion of their energy requirements. The uncertainty regarding the amount of load that our merchant energy business must be prepared to supply to customers may 20 increase our operating costs. A significant under- or over-estimation of load requirements could result in our merchant energy business not having enough or having too much power to cover its load obligation, in which case it would be required to buy or sell power from or to third parties at prevailing market prices. Those prices may not be favorable and thus could increase our operating costs. Our financial results may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis or as a result of severe weather. Our business is affected by weather conditions. Our overall operating results may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis, and the pattern of this fluctuation may change depending on the nature and location of any facility we acquire and the terms of any contract to which we become a party. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas and affect the price of energy commodities. Generally, demand for electricity peaks in winter and summer and demand for gas peaks in the winter. Typically, when winters are warmer than expected and summers are cooler than expected, demand for energy is lower, resulting in less electric and gas consumption than forecasted. Depending on prevailing market prices for electricity and gas, these and other unexpected conditions may reduce our revenues and results of operations. First and third quarter financial results, in particular, are substantially dependent on weather conditions, and may make period comparisons less relevant. Severe weather can affect our results of operation. Severe weather can be destructive, causing outages and/or property damage. This could require us to incur additional costs. Catastrophic weather, such as hurricanes, could impact our or our customers’ operating facilities, communication systems and technology. Unfavorable weather conditions may have a material adverse effect on our financial results. A downgrade in our credit ratings could negatively affect our ability to access capital and/or operate our wholesale and retail competitive supply businesses. We rely on access to capital markets as a source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by operating cash flows. If any of our credit ratings were to be downgraded, especially below investment grade, our ability to raise capital on favorable terms, including the commercial paper markets, could be hindered, and our borrowing costs would increase. Additionally, the business prospects of our wholesale and retail competitive supply businesses, which in many cases rely on the creditworthiness of Constellation Energy, would be negatively impacted. Some of the factors that affect credit ratings are cash flows, liquidity, and the amount of debt as a component of total capitalization. In addition, the ability of BGE to recover its costs of providing service and timing of BGE’s recovery could have a material adverse effect on the credit ratings of BGE and us. We, and BGE in particular, are subject to extensive state and federal regulation that could affect our operations and costs. We are subject to regulation by federal and state governmental entities, including the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the Maryland PSC and the utility commissions of other states in which we have operations. In addition, changing governmental policies and regulatory actions can have a significant impact on us. Regulations can affect, for example, allowed rates of return, requirements for plant operations, recovery of costs, limitations on dividend payments and the regulation or re-regulation of wholesale and retail competition (including but not limited to retail choice and transmission costs). BGE’s distribution rates are subject to regulation by the Maryland PSC, and such rates are effective until new rates are approved. In addition, limited categories of costs are recovered through adjustment charges that are periodically reset to reflect current and projected costs. Inability to recover material costs not included in rates or adjustment clauses, including increases in uncollectible customer accounts that may result from higher gas or electric costs, could have an adverse effect on our, or BGE’s, cash flow and financial position. Energy legislation enacted in Maryland in June 2006 mandates rate stabilization that requires BGE to defer the recovery of a portion of its purchased power costs and to phase in the recovery of these costs over a period of years. In addition, the legislation mandates that the Maryland PSC conduct a comprehensive review of Maryland’s deregulated electricity market. Because this energy legislation is still in the process of being implemented and interpreted, we do not know the final impact such legislation will have on our, or BGE’s, business. The regulatory process may restrict our ability to grow earnings in certain parts of our business, cause delays in or affect business planning and transactions and increase our, or BGE’s, costs. Poor market performance will affect our benefit plan and nuclear decommissioning trust asset values, which may adversely affect our liquidity and financial results. Our qualified pension obligations have exceeded the fair value of our plan assets since 2001. At December 31, 2006, our qualified pension obligations were approximately $405 million greater than the fair value 21 of our plan assets. The performance of the capital markets will affect the value of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy our future obligations under our qualified pension plans. A decline in the market value of those assets may increase our funding requirements for these obligations, which may adversely affect our liquidity and financial results. We are required to maintain funded trusts to satisfy our future obligations to decommission our nuclear power plants. A decline in the market value of those assets due to poor investment performance or other factors may increase our funding requirements for these obligations, which may have an adverse effect on our liquidity and financial results. War and threats of terrorism and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism may impact our results of operations in unpredictable ways. We cannot predict the impact that any future terrorist attacks may have on the energy industry in general and on our business in particular. In addition, any retaliatory military strikes or sustained military campaign may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, such as changes in insurance markets and disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil. The possibility alone that infrastructure facilities, such as electric generation, electric and gas transmission and distribution facilities, would be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror may affect our operations. Such activity may have an adverse effect on the United States economy in general. A lower level of economic activity might result in a decline in energy consumption, which may adversely affect our financial results or restrict our future growth. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war may affect our stock price and our ability to raise capital. We are subject to employee workforce factors that could affect our businesses and financial results. We are subject to employee workforce factors, including loss or retirement of key executives or other employees, availability of qualified personnel, collective bargaining agreements with union employees, and work stoppage that could affect our financial results. In particular, our competitive energy businesses are dependent, in part, on recruiting and retaining personnel with experience in sophisticated energy transactions and the functioning of complex wholesale markets. Our ability to successfully identify, complete and integrate acquisitions is subject to significant risks, including the effect of increased competition. We are likely to encounter significant competition for acquisition opportunities that may become available. In addition, we may be unable to identify attractive acquisition opportunities at favorable prices and to successfully and timely complete and integrate them. 