ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The business of Barnwell and its subsidiaries face numerous risks, including those set forth below or those described elsewhere in this Form 10-K or in Barnwell’s other filings with the SEC. The risks described below are not the only risks that Barnwell faces. If any of the following risk factors should occur, our profitability, financial condition or liquidity could be materially negatively impacted. Entity-Wide RisksThe substantial declines in oil and natural gas prices have adversely affected our business, financial condition, cash flow, liquidity and results of operations, resulting in issues that may impair our ability to continue as a going concern in the future.Much of our revenues and cash flow are greatly dependent upon prevailing prices for oil and natural gas. Our ability to maintain or increase our borrowing capacity and to obtain additional capital on attractive terms is also dependent on oil and natural gas prices. Lower oil and natural gas prices not only decrease our revenues on a per unit basis, but also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas we can produce economically, if any.In September 2015, Barnwell sold its interests in its principal oil and natural gas properties located in the Dunvegan and Belloy areas of Alberta, Canada. Barnwell's net proceeds from the sale, after broker's fees and other closing costs, were $14,162,000 of which $7,135,000 was withheld in an escrow account for the Canada Revenue Agency for potential amounts due for Barnwell’s Canadian income taxes related to the sale. Management believes all necessary Canadian income taxes related to the sale have been paid as of September 30, 2015, however the sufficiency of Canadian income taxes paid and the precise timing for and amount of the release of these funds to Barnwell cannot be determined until formal determination by the Canada Revenue Agency. The sales proceeds received upon closing were used for Canadian income tax payments and repayment of the $4,800,000 outstanding on the Canadian revolving credit facility.As a result of the sale of Dunvegan, our Canadian revolving credit facility was amended on September 30, 2015 to decrease the amount of the borrowing capacity from $6,500,000 Canadian dollars to $1,000,000 Canadian dollars, or U.S. $747,000 at the September 30, 2015 exchange rate. In addition, the credit facility is subject to periodic redetermination and renewal and there is no assurance that the borrowing capacity will not be reduced further in April 2016. This leaves Barnwell with minimal available credit under the facility.Because of the combined impact of declines in oil and natural gas prices, declines in production due to oil and natural gas property sales, and natural declines in production and increasing costs due to the age of Barnwell's properties, Barnwell's oil and natural gas segment is projected to have negative cash flow from operations at current prices and production levels. These factors have also resulted in the significant decrease in the borrowing capacity of our Canadian revolving credit facility. Consequently, Barnwell is reliant upon the release of the Dunvegan sales proceeds held in escrow, the timing of which is uncertain, and land investment segment proceeds from percentage of sales payments and any potential future cash distributions from the Kukio Resort land development partnerships in order to provide sufficient liquidity to fund our future cash needs, including capital expenditures, asset retirement obligations, and general and administrative expenses. Furthermore, even if the release of the Dunvegan sales proceeds held in escrow and land investment segment proceeds provide sufficient liquidity, all or a portion of those proceeds may be needed to fund ongoing operating and general and administrative expenses and asset retirement obligations, in which case such proceeds would not be reinvested. 18The amount and timing of future land investment segment proceeds from percentage of sales payments and cash distributions from the Kukio Resort land development partnerships are not under our influence or control and are highly uncertain, and the amount of future proceeds may not provide the liquidity required. There is no assurance with regards to the amount of any such future proceeds. Our liquidity issues may force us to drastically curtail existing operations, reduce or delay capital expenditures, or sell assets on less favorable terms. There can be no assurance the Company will be able to secure the sale of any of its assets or realize enough proceeds from such sales to fund its operations or to otherwise resolve its liquidity issues. Such issues could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If liquidity issues continue beyond one year and are such that the Company is not able to sufficiently reinvest its restricted cash, the Company's ability to continue as a going concern in the longer term will become questionable.Our future level of indebtedness and the terms of our financing arrangements may adversely affect our operations and financial condition.At September 30, 2015, we had borrowings under our real estate loan of approximately $3.4 million. Barnwell repaid the Canadian revolving credit facility in full from the proceeds of the Dunvegan disposition, and the credit facility was amended on September 30, 2015 to reduce the borrowing capacity from $6,500,000 Canadian dollars to $1,000,000 Canadian dollars, or U.S. $747,000 at the September 30, 2015 exchange rate. The terms of our Canadian revolving credit facility and real estate loan impose restrictions on our ability and, in some cases, the ability of our subsidiaries to take a number of actions that we may otherwise desire to take, including one or more of the following: •incurring additional debt, including guarantees of indebtedness;•making investments;•creating liens on our assets; and•selling assets.Our level of indebtedness and the covenants contained in our financing agreements could have important consequences. For example, they could: •limit our ability to obtain future financing, through equity offerings or debt financings, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, refinancing of indebtedness or general corporate and other activities;•require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our debt, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow for other purposes (i.e., working capital, capital expenditures, and other general business activities);•limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, the changes in our business;•subject us to higher costs and more restrictive covenants in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate or other purposes, if additional financing is obtained;•make us vulnerable to increases in interest rates as our credit facilities are subject to variable interest rates;•detract from our ability to successfully withstand a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and•make us more vulnerable to general economic downturns and adverse developments in our industries, especially declines in oil and natural gas prices, and the economy in general.19We may incur additional debt, including significant secured indebtedness, or issue additional stock in order to fund our investments and operations. A higher level of indebtedness increases the risk that we may default on our obligations, especially given the aforementioned uncertainties regarding the Company's liquidity. Our ability to meet our debt obligations and to reduce our level of indebtedness depends on our future performance. General economic conditions, oil and natural gas prices and financial, business and other factors affect our operations and our future performance. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Factors that will affect our ability to raise cash through a refinancing of our debt include financial market conditions, the value of our assets and our performance at the time we need capital. The price of our common stock has been volatile and could continue to fluctuate substantially. The market price of our common stock has been volatile and could fluctuate based on a variety of factors, including: •fluctuations in commodity prices;•variations in results of operations;•announcements by us and our competitors;•legislative or regulatory changes;•general trends in the industry;•general market conditions; •litigation; and•analysts’ estimates and other events applicable to our industries. Our operations are subject to currency rate fluctuations. Our operations are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the Canadian dollar. Our financial statements, presented in U.S. dollars, may be affected by foreign currency fluctuations through both translation risk and transaction risk. Volatility in exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations, particularly through the weakening of the U.S. dollar relative to the Canadian dollar which may affect the relative prices at which we sell our oil and natural gas and may affect the cost of certain items required in our operations. To date, we have not entered into foreign currency hedging transactions to control or minimize these risks. Failure to retain key personnel could hurt our operations. We require highly skilled and experienced personnel to operate our business. In addition to competing in highly competitive industries, we compete in a highly competitive labor market. Our business could be adversely affected by an inability to retain personnel or upward pressure on wages as a result of the highly competitive labor market. A small number of stockholders, including our CEO and President, own a significant amount of our common stock and have influence over our business regardless of the opposition of other stockholders. As of September 30, 2015, four of our stockholders, including our CEO and President, held approximately 44% of our outstanding common stock. The interests of one or more of these stockholders may not always coincide with the interests of other stockholders. These stockholders have significant influence over all matters submitted to our stockholders, including the election of our directors, and could accelerate, delay, deter or prevent a change of control of the Company. The significant stockholders who also are executive officers could significantly affect our business, policies and affairs.20Adverse changes in actuarial assumptions used to calculate retirement plan costs due to economic or other factors, or lower returns on plan assets could adversely affect Barnwell’s results and financial condition. Retirement plan cash funding obligations and plan expenses and obligations are subject to a high degree of uncertainty and could increase in future years depending on numerous factors, including the performance of the financial markets, specifically the equity markets, and the levels of interest rates. Risks Related to Oil and Natural Gas Segment Oil and natural gas prices are volatile. Our results of operations and financial condition are highly dependent on the prices of and demand for our oil and natural gas production. Oil and natural gas prices are volatile and have substantially declined since September 2014. Various factors beyond our control affect prices of oil an natural gas including, but not limited to, changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty, weather, worldwide political instability, foreign supply of oil and natural gas, the level of consumer product demand, government regulations and taxes, the price and availability of alternative fuels and the overall economic environment. Any further declines in oil or natural gas prices may reduce the amount of oil and natural gas we can produce economically, if any, and may have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition, operating cash flows, borrowing ability, reserves, and the amount of capital that we are able to allocate for the development of oil and natural gas reserves. Energy prices are also subject to other political and regulatory actions outside our control, which may include changes in the policies of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries or other developments involving or affecting oil-producing countries, or actions or reactions of the government of the United States in anticipation of or in response to such developments. Additionally, we follow the full cost method of accounting for costs related to our oil and natural gas properties. Under this method, the net book value of properties less related deferred income taxes, may not exceed a calculated “ceiling,” which is based upon the estimated after tax discounted future net cash flows from proved oil and natural gas properties. The excess, if any, of the net book value above the ceiling is required to be written off as an expense. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” for further details. A sufficient decline in oil or natural gas prices or other factors, without other mitigating circumstances, could result in future reductions of the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties and an equivalent charge to earnings. We may have difficulty funding our oil and natural gas segment investments and may not be successful with such investments, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Because of the combined impact of declines in oil and natural gas prices, declines in production due to oil and natural gas property sales, and natural declines in production and increasing costs due to the age of Barnwell's properties, Barnwell's oil and natural gas segment is projected to have significantly lower revenues and negative cash flow from operations at current prices and production levels, which will significantly impact the amount of cash flow from operations available for reinvestment. The timing of any future re-investment of the Dunvegan proceeds is dependent on the release of the $7,135,000 currently held in escrow for the Canada Revenue Agency as the proceeds received upon closing 21were used for Canadian income tax payments and repayment of the $4,800,000 outstanding on the Canadian revolving credit facility. However, all or a portion of those proceeds may be needed to fund ongoing operating and general and administrative expenses and asset retirement obligations, in which case such proceeds would not be reinvested. The precise timing for and amount of the release of these funds to Barnwell cannot be determined until formal determination by the Canada Revenue Agency. As a result of the sale of Dunvegan, the Company's principal oil and natural gas property, in September 2015, our Canadian revolving credit facility was amended on September 30, 2015 to decrease the amount of the borrowing capacity from $6,500,000 Canadian dollars to $1,000,000 Canadian dollars, or U.S. $747,000 at the September 30, 2015 exchange rate. In addition, the credit facility is subject to periodic redetermination and renewal and there is no assurance that the borrowing capacity will not be reduced further in April 2016. This leaves Barnwell with minimal available credit under the facility.We may not be able to generate sufficient operating cash flows or secure necessary financing on reasonable terms or at all and financing may not continue to be available to us under our existing financing arrangements. If funding resources are unavailable, we may be forced to curtail our oil and natural gas activities or be forced to sell some of our oil and natural gas segment assets under untimely or unfavorable terms. Any such curtailment or sale could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Investments in oil and natural gas segment assets are needed to replace the assets depleted or sold and to avoid a material decline in the remaining reserves and production. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in developing additional reserves or acquiring additional reserves. Without these reserve additions, our reserves will deplete and as a consequence, either production from, or the average reserve life of, our properties will decline. Furthermore, if oil or natural gas prices increase, our cost for additional reserves could also increase. We may incur material costs to comply with or as a result of health, safety, and environmental laws and regulations. The oil and natural gas industry is subject to extensive environmental regulation pursuant to local, provincial and federal legislation. A violation of that legislation may result in the imposition of fines or the issuance of “clean up” orders. Legislation regulating the oil and natural gas industry may be changed to impose higher standards and potentially more costly obligations. Although we have recorded a provision in our financial statements relating to our estimated future environmental and reclamation obligations that we believe is reasonable, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to satisfy our actual future environmental and reclamation obligations. For wells and facilities in the Province of Alberta, the Alberta Energy Regulator (“AER”) tracks each licensee’s deemed asset value and estimated abandonment and reclamation liabilities, and imposes a security deposit on operators whose estimated liabilities exceed their deemed asset value. At September 30, 2015, the Company had sufficient deemed asset value that no security deposit was due. However, in fiscal 2016 Barnwell's Liability Management Ratio may be less than 1.0 which would necessitate a cash deposit with the AER and/or the implementation of a structured LLR Program Management Plan; the amount of the required deposit, if any, cannot be reasonably estimated. A requirement to provide security deposit funds to the AER in the future would result in the diversion of operating cash flows that could otherwise be used to fund oil and natural gas reserve replacement efforts, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, in July 2014, the AER introduced 22an Inactive Well Compliance Program which resulted in the acceleration of expenditures to suspend and/or abandon long-term inactive wells. We are not fully insured against certain environmental risks, either because such insurance is not available or because of high premium costs. In particular, insurance against risks from environmental pollution occurring over time, as opposed to sudden and catastrophic damages, is not available on economically reasonable terms. Accordingly, any site reclamation or abandonment costs actually incurred in the ordinary course of business in a specific period could negatively impact our cash flow. Should we be unable to fully fund the cost of remedying an environmental problem, we might be required to suspend operations or enter into interim compliance measures pending completion of the required remedy. We may fail to fully identify potential problems related to acquired reserves or to properly estimate those reserves. We periodically evaluate acquisitions of reserves, properties, prospects and leaseholds and other strategic transactions that appear to fit within our overall business strategy. Our evaluation includes an assessment of reserves, future oil and natural gas prices, operating costs, potential for future drilling and production, validity of the seller’s title to the properties and potential environmental issues, litigation and other liabilities. In connection with these assessments, we perform a review of the subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. Our review will not reveal all existing or potential problems nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and potential recoverable reserves. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection against all or part of the problems. We often are not entitled to contractual indemnification for environmental liabilities or title defects in excess of the amounts claimed by us before closing and acquire properties on an “as is” basis. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved oil and gas reserves and future production rates and costs with respect to acquired properties, and actual results may vary substantially from those assumed in the estimates. The oil and natural gas industry is highly competitive. We compete for capital, acquisitions of reserves, undeveloped lands, skilled personnel, access to drilling rigs, service rigs and other equipment, access to processing facilities, pipeline capacity and in many other respects with a substantial number of other organizations, many of which may have greater technical and financial resources than we do. Some of these organizations explore for, develop and produce oil and natural gas, carry on refining operations and market oil and other products on a worldwide basis. As a result of these complementary activities, some of our competitors may have competitive resources that are greater and more diverse than ours. Furthermore, many of our competitors may have a competitive advantage when responding to factors that affect demand for oil and natural gas production, such as changing prices and production levels, the cost and availability of alternative fuels and the application of government regulations. If our competitors are able to capitalize on these competitive resources, it could adversely affect our revenues. 23An increase in operating costs greater than anticipated could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.Higher operating costs for our properties will directly decrease the amount of cash flow received by us. Electricity, supplies, and labor costs are a few of the operating costs that are susceptible to material fluctuation. The need for significant repairs and maintenance of infrastructure may increase as our properties age. A significant increase in operating costs could result in materially lower operating margin and cash flow.Our operating results are affected by our ability to market the oil and natural gas that we produce. Our business depends in part upon the availability, proximity and capacity of oil and natural gas gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities. Canadian federal and provincial, as well as United States federal and state, regulation of oil and natural gas production, processing and transportation, tax and energy policies, general economic conditions, and changes in supply and demand could adversely affect our ability to produce and market oil and natural gas. If market factors change and inhibit the marketing of our production, overall production or realized prices may decline. We are not the operator and have limited influence over the operations of the majority of our oil and natural gas properties. We hold minority interests in the majority of our oil and natural gas properties. As a result, we cannot control the pace of exploration or development, major decisions affecting the drilling of wells, the plan for development and production at non-operated properties, or the timing and amount of costs related to abandonment and reclamation activities although contract provisions give Barnwell certain consent rights in some matters. The operator’s influence over these matters can affect the pace at which we incur capital expenditures. Additionally, as certain underlying joint venture data is not accessible to us, we depend on the operators at non-operated properties to provide us with reliable accounting information. We also depend on operators and joint operators to maintain the financial resources to fund their share of all abandonment and reclamation costs. The inability of one or more of our working interest partners to meet their obligations may adversely affect our financial results.For our operated properties, we pay expenses and bill our non-operating partners for their respective shares of costs. Some of our non-operating partners may experience liquidity problems and may not be able to meet their financial obligations. Nonperformance by a non-operating partner could result in significant financial losses.Liquidity problems encountered by our working interest partners or the third party operators of our non-operated properties may also result in significant financial losses as the other working interest partners or third party operators may be unwilling or unable to pay their share of the costs of projects as they become due.Actual reserves will vary from reserve estimates. Estimating reserves is inherently uncertain and the reserves estimation process involves significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data. The reserve data and standardized measures set forth herein are only estimates. Ultimately, actual 24reserves attributable to our properties will vary from estimates, and those variations may be material. The estimation of reserves involves a number of factors and assumptions, including, among others: •oil and natural gas prices as prescribed by SEC regulations;•historical production from our wells compared with production rates from similar producing wells in the area;•future commodity prices, production and development costs, royalties and capital expenditures;•initial production rates;•production decline rates;•ultimate recovery of reserves;•success of future development activities;•marketability of production;•effects of government regulation; and•other government levies that may be imposed over the producing life of reserves. If these factors, assumptions and prices prove to be inaccurate, actual results may vary materially from reserve estimates. Delays in business operations could adversely affect our distributions. In addition to the usual delays in payment by purchasers of oil and natural gas to the operators of our properties, and the delays of those operators in remitting payment to us, payments between any of these parties may also be delayed by: •restrictions imposed by lenders;•accounting delays;•delays in the sale or delivery of products;•delays in the connection of wells to a gathering system;•blowouts or other accidents;•adjustments for prior periods;•recovery by the operator of expenses incurred in the operation of the properties; and•the establishment by the operator of reserves for these expenses. Any of these delays could expose us to additional third party credit risks. The industry in which we operate exposes us to potential liabilities that may not be covered by insurance. Our operations are subject to all of the risks associated with the operation and development of oil and natural gas properties, including the drilling of oil and natural gas wells, and the production and transportation of oil and natural gas. These risks include encountering unexpected formations or pressures, premature declines of reservoirs, blow-outs, equipment failures and other accidents, cratering, sour gas releases, uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids, adverse weather conditions, pollution, other environmental risks, fires and spills. A number of these risks could result in personal injury, loss of life, or environmental and other damage to our property or the property of others. While we maintain reserves for anticipated liabilities and carry various levels of insurance, we could be affected by civil, criminal, regulatory or administrative actions, claims or proceedings. We cannot fully protect against all of the risks listed above, nor are all of these risks insurable. There is no assurance that any applicable insurance or indemnification agreements will adequately protect us against liability for the risks 25listed above. We could face substantial losses if an event occurs for which we are not fully insured or are not indemnified against or a customer or insurer fails to meet its indemnification or insurance obligations. In addition, there can be no assurance that insurance will continue to be available to cover any or all of these risks, or, even if available, that insurance premiums or other costs will not rise significantly in the future, so as to make the cost of such insurance prohibitive. Deficiencies in operating practices and record keeping, if any, may increase our risks and liabilities relating to incidents such as spills and releases and may increase the level of regulatory enforcement actions. Our operations are subject to domestic and foreign government regulation and other risks, particularly in Canada and the United States. Barnwell’s oil and natural gas operations are affected by political developments and laws and regulations, particularly in Canada and the United States, such as restrictions on production, restrictions on imports and exports, the maintenance of specified reserves, tax increases and retroactive tax claims, expropriation of property, cancellation of contract rights, environmental protection controls, environmental compliance requirements and laws pertaining to workers’ health and safety. Further, the right to explore for and develop oil and natural gas on lands in Alberta, Saskatchewan and British Columbia is controlled by the governments of each of those provinces. Changes in royalties and other terms of provincial leases, permits and reservations may have a substantial effect on Barnwell’s operations. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from our operations in Canada. In fiscal 2015, we derived 53% of our revenues from operations in Canada.The Alberta New Democratic Party provincial government, elected in May of 2015, has established a new Royalty Panel and a new Climate Change Advisory Panel that are proceeding with plans to study, and potentially modify, Alberta’s royalty structure and increase carbon levies. A change in the Alberta provincial royalty structure could have a significant impact on Barnwell’s future financial results, cost of capital and capital investment plans. The Royalty Panel expects to complete its review by the end of December 2015 and implement a new royalty structure by January 2017.The newly elected Federal Liberal Party of Canada government may implement new environmental legislation and regulatory oversight, which may have a significant impact on the oil and gas industry. Opposition to new or expanded pipelines may result in wider differentials between Canadian crude oil blends and North American benchmarks. Additionally, our ability to compete in the Canadian oil and natural gas industry may be adversely affected by governmental regulations or other policies that favor the awarding of contracts to contractors in which Canadian nationals have substantial ownership interests. Furthermore, we may face governmentally imposed restrictions or fees from time to time on the transfer of funds to the U.S. Government regulations control and often limit access to potential markets and impose extensive requirements concerning employee safety, environmental protection, pollution control and remediation of environmental contamination. Environmental regulations, in particular, prohibit access to some markets and make others less economical, increase equipment and personnel costs and often impose liability without regard to negligence or fault. In addition, governmental regulations may discourage our customers’ activities, reducing demand for our products and services. 26Compliance with foreign tax and other laws may adversely affect our operations.Tax and other laws and regulations are not always interpreted consistently among local, regional and national authorities. Income tax laws, other legislation or government incentive programs relating to the oil and natural gas industry may in the future be changed or interpreted in a manner that adversely affects us and our stockholders. It is also possible that in the future we will be subject to disputes concerning taxation and other matters in Canada, including the manner in which we calculate our income for tax purposes, and these disputes could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance.Unforeseen title defects may result in a loss of entitlement to production and reserves. Although we conduct title reviews in accordance with industry practice prior to any purchase of resource assets or property, such reviews do not guarantee that an unforeseen defect in the chain of title will not arise and defeat our title to the purchased assets. If such a defect were to occur, our entitlement to the production from such purchased assets could be jeopardized. Risks Related to Land Investment Segment Receipt of future percentage of sales payments is dependent upon the developer’s continued efforts to develop and market the property. We are entitled to receive future payments based on a percentage of the sales prices of residential homes and lots within approximately 870 acres in the Kaupulehu area. However, in order to collect such percentage of sales payments we are reliant upon the developer, KD I and KD II, in which we own a 19.6% ownership interest, to continue to develop and market the homes and lots. We do not have a controlling interest in the partnerships, and therefore are dependent on the general partner for development decisions. The receipt of future percentage of sales payments could be jeopardized if the developer fails to proceed with development and marketing of the property. We hold investment interests in unconsolidated land development partnerships, which are accounted for using the equity method of accounting, in which we do not have a controlling interest. These investments involve risks and are highly illiquid. These investments involve risks which include: •the lack of a controlling interest in these partnerships and, therefore, the inability to require that the entities sell assets, return invested capital or take any other action without obtaining the majority vote of partners;•potential for future additional capital contributions to fund operations and development activities;•the adverse impact on overall profitability if the entities do not achieve the financial results projected;•the reallocation of amounts of capital from other operating initiatives and/or an increase in our indebtedness to pay potential future additional capital contributions, which could in turn restrict our ability to access additional capital when needed or to pursue other important elements of our business strategy;•undisclosed, contingent or other liabilities or problems, unanticipated costs, and an inability to recover or manage such liabilities and costs; and27•certain underlying partnership data is not accessible to us, therefore we depend on the general partner to provide us with reliable accounting information.We may be required to write-down the carrying value of our investment in the Kukio Resort land development partnerships if our assumptions about future lot sales and profitability prove incorrect. Any write-down would negatively impact our results of operations. In analyzing the value of our investment in the Kukio Resort land development partnerships, we have made assumptions about the level of future lot sales, operating and development costs, cash generation and market conditions. These assumptions are based on management’s and the general partner’s best estimates and if the actual results differ significantly from these assumptions, we may not be able to realize the value of the assets recorded, which could lead to an impairment of certain of these assets in the future. The market value of our real estate interests could decline, which may require a write-down of the carrying value of our residential lot held for sale to its estimated fair value. Any write-down would negatively impact our results of operations. The market value of residential lots can fluctuate significantly as a result of changing economic market conditions. Economic conditions in the United States and the world have improved in recent years but the recovery remains relatively slow, which puts continued pressure on consumer confidence for residential real estate. These challenging market conditions are expected to continue for the foreseeable future and may deteriorate. Prevailing market conditions may significantly influence the market value of our residential parcel held for sale. If the market conditions deteriorate, we will be required to write-down the carrying value of our residential parcel held for sale. Such write-down would have a negative impact on our results of operations.Our land investment business is concentrated in the state of Hawaii. As a result, our financial results are dependent on the economic growth and health of Hawaii, particularly the island of Hawaii. Barnwell’s land investment segment is impacted by the condition of Hawaii’s real estate market, which is affected by Hawaii’s economy and Hawaii’s tourism industry, as well as the United States and world economies in general. Any future cash flows from Barnwell’s land development activities are subject to, among other factors, the level of real estate activity and prices, the demand for new housing and second homes on the island of Hawaii, the rate of increase in the cost of building materials and labor, the introduction of building code modifications, changes to zoning laws, and the level of confidence in Hawaii’s economy. We may be adversely impacted by the failure of the land development partnerships to fulfill their commitments. Barnwell, as well as KD I, KD II and certain other owners of the partnerships, have jointly and severally executed a surety indemnification agreement. Bonds issued by the surety relate to certain construction contracts of KD I. If any such performance bonds are called, we may be obligated to reimburse the issuer of the performance bond as Barnwell, KD I and certain other owners are jointly and severally liable. If the partnerships do not fulfill their commitments, we may be required to expend additional resources or suffer losses, which could be significant. 28The occurrence of natural disasters in Hawaii could adversely affect our business.The occurrence of a natural disaster in Hawaii such as, but not limited to, earthquakes, landslides, hurricanes, tornadoes, tsunamis, volcanic activity, droughts and floods, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop and sell properties or realize income from our projects. The occurrence of a natural disaster could also cause property and flood insurance rates and deductibles to increase, which could reduce demand for our properties.Our business is subject to extensive regulation which makes it difficult and expensive for us to conduct our operations. We are subject to a wide variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to land use and development and to environmental compliance and permitting obligations, including those related to the use, storage, discharge, emission, and disposal of hazardous materials. In most cases, approval to develop requires multiple permits which involve a long, uncertain and costly regulatory process. Any failure to comply with these laws could result in capital or operating expenditures or the imposition of severe penalties or restrictions on operations that could adversely affect present and future operations, or jeopardize our ability to sell the leasehold interest currently held. If required land use entitlements are not obtained at reasonable costs, or at all, our operating results could be adversely affected. We hold the leasehold interest to approximately 1,000 acres of vacant land that is currently zoned conservation. Our success in selling this interest may be contingent upon obtaining the necessary reclassification from the State of Hawaii Land Use Commission and county of Hawaii. Obtaining the necessary reclassification and ministerial approvals is often difficult, costly and may take several years, or more, to complete. Delays or failures to obtain the necessary reclassification approvals may adversely affect our financial results. Risks Related to Contract Drilling Segment Demand for water well drilling and/or pump installation is volatile. A decrease in demand for our services could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Demand for services is highly dependent upon land development activities in the state of Hawaii. As also noted above, the real estate development industry is cyclical in nature and is particularly vulnerable to shifts in local, regional, and national economic conditions outside of our control such as interest rates, housing demand, population growth, employment levels and job growth and property taxes. A decrease in water well drilling and/or pump installation contracts will result in decreased revenues and operating results. A significant portion of our contract drilling business is dependent on municipalities and a decline in municipal spending could adversely impact our business. A significant portion of our contract drilling division revenues is derived from water and infrastructure contracts with governmental entities or agencies. Reduced tax revenues and governmental budgets may limit spending by local governments which in turn will affect the demand for our services. Material reductions in spending by a significant number of local governmental agencies could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial position. 29Our contract drilling operations face significant competition. We face competition for our services from a variety of competitors. Many of our competitors utilize drilling rigs that drill as quickly as our equipment but require less labor. Our strategy is to compete based on pricing and to a lesser degree, quality of service. If we are unable to compete effectively with our competitors, our financial results could be adversely affected.The loss of or damage to key vendor, customer or sub-contractor relationships would adversely affect our operations. Our contract drilling business is dependent on our relationships with key vendors, customers and subcontractors. The loss of or damage to any of our key relationships could negatively affect our business. Awarding of contracts is dependent upon our ability to obtain contract bid and performance bonds from insurers. There can be no assurance that our ability to obtain such bonds will continue on the same basis as the past. Additionally, bonding insurance rates may increase and have an impact on our ability to win competitive bids, which could have a corresponding material impact on contract drilling operating results. The contracts in our backlog are subject to change orders and cancellation. Our backlog consists of the uncompleted portion of services to be performed under contracts that have been started and new contracts not yet started. Our contracts are subject to change orders and cancellations, and such changes could adversely affect our operations. The occurrence of natural disasters in Hawaii could adversely affect our business. The occurrence of a natural disaster in Hawaii such as, but not limited to, earthquakes, landslides, hurricanes, tornadoes, tsunamis, volcanic activity, droughts and floods, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to complete our contracts. Risks Related to Residential Real Estate Segment The market value of our real estate interests could decline, which may require additional write-downs of the carrying value of our real estate held for sale to its estimated fair value. Any write-downs would negatively impact our results of operations. Economic conditions in the United States and the world have improved in recent years but the recovery remains slow, which puts continued pressure on consumer confidence for residential real estate. These challenging market conditions are expected to continue for the foreseeable future and these conditions may deteriorate. Prevailing market conditions significantly influence the market value of our real estate held for sale. If the market conditions deteriorate, we will be required to write-down the carrying value of our real estate held for sale. Such write-downs would have a negative impact on our results of operations. 30We are reliant upon the sale of our home as a source of liquidity. If we are unable to sell the home within a reasonable timeframe, our operating results, cash inflows and financial condition could be materially impacted.Barnwell currently owns one luxury residence that is available for sale in the Lot 4A Increment I area of Kaupulehu, North Kona, Hawaii. Any unpaid principal balance and accrued interest on our real estate loan is due and payable on April 1, 2018. Upon the sale of the house or the residential parcel, we will be required to make a principal payment in the amount of the net sales proceeds of the house or residential parcel. Absent the sale of the house or the ability to refinance, the balloon payment on the debt will need to be repaid using other operating cash flows which could negatively impact other business segments. The inability to sell the home within a reasonable timeframe will lead to additional interest, maintenance, property taxes and other holding costs. Furthermore, if estimated cash inflows from the home sale is less than current expectations, our operating results, cash inflows and financial condition could be materially impacted. Severe weather and other natural conditions or disasters may impair the value of our real estate property. Severe weather and other natural conditions or disasters, such as, but not limited to, earthquakes, landslides, hurricanes, tornadoes, tsunamis, volcanic activity, droughts, floods, and heavy or prolonged rain, can negatively affect our operations by requiring us to perform potentially costly repairs to our projects. Further, these conditions can delay home closings, adversely affect the cost or availability of materials or labor, or impair the value of the property on a temporary or permanent basis. To the extent our insurance is not adequate to cover business interruption losses or repair costs resulting from these events, our total earned revenues and earnings may be adversely affected.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 