Item 1A. Risk Factors Difficult market conditions have adversely affected the industry. The Bank is exposed to downturns in the U.S. housing market. Dramatic declines in the national housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities, major commercial and investment banks, and regional and community financial institutions such as the Company. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The continuing economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The difficult conditions in the financial markets are not likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on the Company and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, the Company may face the following risks in connection with these events: • The Company’s stock price could be negatively impacted by these events and could remain under pressure until a market recovery is under way. • Increased regulation of the industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase costs and limit the Company’s ability to pursue business opportunities. • The process used to estimate losses inherent in the Company’s credit exposure requires subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might impair the ability of borrowers to repay their loans. The level of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect the accuracy of estimates which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the financial statements. • Increased levels of nonperforming loans and loan losses may negatively impact earnings. • The Company may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC deposit premiums because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. • Consumer confidence in financial institutions is deteriorating, which could lead to declines in deposit totals and impact liquidity. A continued downturn in the local economy or in real estate values could hurt profits. Most of the Bank’s loans are secured by real estate or are made to businesses in Ocean and Monmouth Counties, New Jersey and the surrounding area. As a result of this concentration, a downturn in the local economy could cause significant increases in nonperforming loans, which would hurt profits. Prior to 2008 there was a significant increase in real estate values in the Bank’s market area. During 2008, there has been a weakening in the local economy coupled with declining real estate values. A further decline in real estate values could cause some residential and commercial mortgage loans to become inadequately collateralized, which would expose the Bank to a greater risk of loss. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect results of operations and financial condition. The Bank’s ability to make a profit largely depends on net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. The interest income earned on interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities are generally fixed for a contractual period of time. Interest-bearing liabilities generally have shorter contractual maturities than interest-earning assets. This imbalance can create significant earnings volatility, because market interest rates change over time. In a period of rising interest rates, the interest income earned on interest-earning assets may not increase as rapidly as the interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. 33 Table of Contents In addition, changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities. A reduction in interest rates causes increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities as borrowers refinance their debt to reduce their borrowing costs. This creates reinvestment risk, which is the risk that the Bank may not be able to reinvest the funds from faster prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates earned on the prepaid loans or securities. Conversely, an increase in interest rates generally reduces prepayments. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable-rate loans. Changes in interest rates also affect the current market value of the interest-earning securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. Unrealized net losses on securities available for sale are reported as a separate component of equity. To the extent interest rates increase and the value of the available-for-sale portfolio decreases, stockholders’ equity will be adversely affected. Continued capital and credit market volatility may adversely affect the Company’s ability to access capital and may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In recent months, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. The markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that the Company will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on the Company’s ability to access capital. Additionally, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Changes in the fair value of securities may reduce stockholder’s equity and net income. At December 31, 2008, the Company maintained a securities portfolio of $75.2 million all of which was classified as available for sale. The estimated fair value of the available for sale securities portfolio may increase or decrease depending on the credit quality of the underlying issuer, market liquidity, changes in interest rates and other factors. Stockholder’s equity is increased or decreased by the amount of the change in the unrealized gain or loss (difference between the estimated fair value and the amortized cost) of the available for sale securities portfolio, net of the related tax benefit, under the category of accumulated other comprehensive income/loss. Therefore, a decline in the estimated fair value of this portfolio will result in a decline in reported stockholder’s equity, as well as book value per common share. The decrease will occur even though the securities are not sold. The Company conducts a periodic review and evaluation of the securities portfolio to determine if the decline in the fair value of any security below its cost basis is other-than-temporary. Factors which are considered in the analysis include, but are not limited to, the severity and duration of the decline in fair value of the security, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, whether the decline appears to be related to issuer conditions or general market or industry conditions, the intent and ability to retain the security for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value and the likelihood of any near-term fair value recovery. If such decline is deemed to be other-than-temporary, the security is written down to a new cost basis and the resulting loss is charged to earnings as a component of non-interest income. At December 31, 2008, the securities available for sale portfolio included corporate debt securities issued by national and regional banks. The portfolio consisted of eleven $5,000,000 issues spread among eight issuers. At December 31, 2008, the securities had a book value of $55.0 million and an estimated fair value of $31.7 million. The Company may be required to recognize an other-than-temporary impairment charge related to these securities if the fair values do not recover in the near future. The Company owns stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York (FHLB-NY). The aggregate cost and fair value of the FHLB-NY common stock as of December 31, 2008 was $20.9 million based on 34 Table of Contents its par value. There is no market for the FHLB-NY common stock. The banks within the Federal Home Bank System may be subject to accounting rules and asset quality risks that could result in materially lower regulatory capital levels. In an extreme situation, it is possible that the capitalization of a Federal Home Loan Bank, including the FHLB-NY, could be substantially diminished or reduced to zero. Consequently, there is a risk that the Company’s investment in FHLB-NY common stock could be deemed other-than-temporarily impaired at some time in the future, and if this occurs, it would cause earnings and stockholders’ equity to decrease by the after-tax amount of the impairment charge. Increased emphasis on commercial lending may expose the Bank to increased lending risks. At December 31, 2008, $389.6 million, or 23.4%, of the Bank’s total loans consisted of commercial, multi-family and land real estate loans, and commercial business loans. This portfolio has grown in recent years and the Bank intends to continue to emphasize these types of lending. These types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one-to-four family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the borrowers. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one-to-four family residential mortgage loans. Also, many of the Bank’s commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose the Bank to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one-to-four family residential mortgage loan. The Company’s allowance for loan losses may be inadequate, which could hurt the Company’s earnings. The Company’s allowance for loan losses may prove to be inadequate to cover actual loan losses and if the Company is required to increase its allowance, current earnings may be reduced. When borrowers default and do not repay the loans that the Bank makes to them, the Company may lose money. The Company’s experience shows that some borrowers either will not pay on time or will not pay at all, which will require the Company to cancel or “charge-off” the defaulted loan or loans. The Company provides for losses by reserving what it believes to be an adequate amount to absorb any probable inherent losses. A “charge-off” reduces the Company’s reserve for possible loan losses. If the Company’s reserves were insufficient, it would be required to record a larger reserve, which would reduce earnings for that period. The Bank may be required to repurchase mortgage loans for an early payment default or a breach of representations and warranties, which could harm the Company’s earnings. The Bank’s subsidiary, Columbia, entered into loan sale agreements with investors in the normal course of business through 2007. The loan sale agreements generally required the repurchase of certain loans previously sold in the event of an early payment default or a violation of various representations and warranties customary to the mortgage banking industry. The repurchased mortgage loans could typically only be resold at a significant discount to the unpaid principal balance. The Bank maintains a reserve for repurchased loans, however, if repurchase activity is significant, the reserve may prove to be inadequate to cover actual losses which could harm future earnings. In September 2007, all loan origination activity at Columbia was discontinued. A portion of Columbia’s loan production consisted of “subprime” loans, which are loans made to individuals whose borrowing needs are generally not fulfilled by traditional loan products because they do not satisfy the credit documentation or other underwriting standards prescribed by conventional mortgage lenders and loan buyers. In March 2007, Columbia discontinued the origination of sub-prime loans. In the event the Bank is required to repurchase a significant amount of subprime loans, the Bank may be required to hold such loans in portfolio for an extended period of time or to maturity, if such loans cannot be later resold. Subprime loans generally have a higher incidence of delinquency, foreclosure and bankruptcy, which may be substantially higher than that experienced by mortgage loans underwritten in a more traditional manner. Such risk associated with subprime loans may be increased during periods of economic slow-downs, increasing interest rates, and events that affect specifically the geographic areas in which the loans are made. Moreover, as many of the subprime loans made by Columbia have loan-to-value ratios of 100%, there would be little, if any, equity to fully recover the net carrying value of the loan in the event of default and foreclosure. In such event, the Company may be required to substantially increase 35 Table of Contents its allowance for loan losses which would reduce earnings for that period. The Bank has entered into settlements with some investors which may limit the Bank’s obligation to repurchase mortgage loans for an early payment default or a breach of a representation or warranty. The Company’s mortgage servicing rights may become impaired which could hurt profits. Mortgage servicing rights are carried at the lower of cost or fair value. Any impairment is recognized as a reduction to servicing fee income. In the event that loan prepayments increase due to increased loan refinancing, the fair value of mortgage servicing rights would likely decline. The Company’s inability to achieve profitability on new branches may negatively affect earnings. The Bank has continued to expand its presence within the market area through de novo branching, although no new branches are planned in 2009. The profitability of this expansion strategy will depend on whether the income from the new branches will offset the increased expenses resulting from operating these branches. It is expected to take a period of time before these branches can become profitable. During this period, the expense of operating these branches may negatively affect net income. Deposit insurance assessments will increase substantially, which will adversely affect profits. Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation deposit insurance expense for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $644,000. This assessment is based on the risk category of the institution and currently ranges from 5 to 43 basis points of the institution’s deposits. Federal law requires that the designated reserve ratio for the deposit insurance fund be established by the FDIC at 1.15% to 1.50% of estimated insured deposits. If this reserve ratio drops below 1.15% or the FDIC expects that it will do so within six months, the FDIC must, within 90 days, establish and implement a plan to restore the designated reserve ratio to 1.15% of estimated insured deposits within five years (absent extraordinary circumstances). Recent bank failures coupled with deteriorating economic conditions have significantly reduced the deposit insurance fund’s reserve ratio. As of June 30, 2008, the designated reserve ratio was 1.01% of estimated insured deposits as March 31, 2008. As a result of this reduced reserve ratio, on December 22, 2008, the FDIC published a final rule raising the current deposit insurance assessment rates uniformly for all institutions by seven basis points (to a range from 12 to 50 basis points) for the first quarter of 2009. On February 27, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule under which banks in the best risk category will pay initial base rates ranging from 12 to 16 cents per $100 on an annual basis, beginning on April 1, 2009. The FDIC also adopted an interim rule imposing a 20 basis point emergency special assessment on the industry on June 30, 2009. The assessment is to be collected on September 30, 2009. The interim rule would also permit the FDIC to impose an emergency special assessment after June 30, 2009, of up to 10 basis point if necessary to maintain public confidence in federal deposit insurance. In addition, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 temporarily increased the limit on FDIC insurance coverage for deposits to $250,000 through December 31, 2009, and the FDIC took action to provide coverage for newly-issued senior unsecured debt and non-interest bearing transaction accounts in excess of the $250,000 limit, for which institutions will be assessed additional premiums. These actions will significantly increase the Company’s non-interest expense in 2009 and in future years as long as the increased premiums are in place. Recently enacted legislation and other measures undertaken by the Treasury, the Federal Reserve and other governmental agencies may not help stabilize the U.S. financial system or improve the housing market. On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”), which, among other measures, authorized the Treasury Secretary to establish the Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”). EESA gives broad authority to Treasury to purchase, manage, modify, sell and insure the troubled mortgage related assets that triggered the current economic crisis as well as other “troubled assets.” EESA includes additional provisions directed at bolstering the economy, including: • Authority for the Federal Reserve to pay interest on depository institution balances; 36 Table of Contents • Mortgage loss mitigation and homeowner protection; • Temporary increase in Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance coverage from $100,000 to $250,000 through December 31, 2009; and • Authority to the Securities and Exchange Commission to suspend mark-to-market accounting requirements for any issuer or class of category of transactions. Pursuant to the TARP, the Treasury has the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. Under the TARP, the Treasury has created the Capital Purchase Program, pursuant to which it is providing access to capital to financial institutions through a standardized program to acquire preferred stock (accompanied by warrants) from eligible financial institutions that will serve as Tier 1 capital. EESA also contains a number of significant employee benefit and executive compensation provisions, some of which apply to employee benefit plans generally, and others which impose on financial institutions that participate in the TARP program restrictions on executive compensation. On February 17, 2009, President Obama signed into law the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”) which, among other things, amended the executive compensation restrictions of EESA. See “Regulation and Supervision – Capital Purchase Program” for a discussion of the additional restrictions imposed on executive compensation from EESA and ARRA. Numerous actions, in addition to the EESA, have been taken by the Federal Reserve, Congress, Treasury, the SEC and others to address the liquidity and credit crisis that has followed the sub-prime meltdown that commenced in 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourage loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. In addition, the Internal Revenue Service has issued an unprecedented wave of guidance in response to the credit crisis, including a relaxation of limits on the ability of financial institutions that undergo an “ownership change” to utilize their pre-change net operating losses and net unrealized built-in losses. The relaxation of these limits may make it significantly more attractive to acquire financial institutions whose tax basis in their loan portfolios significantly exceeds the fair market value of those portfolios. On October 14, 2008, the FDIC announced the establishment of a Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program to provide insurance for all non-interest bearing transaction accounts and guarantees of certain newly issued senior unsecured debt issued by financial institutions (such as the Bank), bank holding companies and savings and loan holding companies (such as the Company). Financial institutions were automatically covered by this program for the 30-day period commencing October 14, 2008 and continue to be covered as long as they did not affirmatively opt out of the program. Under the program, senior unsecured debt issued on or before June 30, 2009 will be insured in the event the issuing institution subsequently fails, or its holding company files for bankruptcy. The debt includes all newly issued unsecured senior debt (e.g., promissory notes, commercial paper and inter-bank funding). The aggregate coverage for an institution may not exceed 125% of its debt outstanding on December 31, 2008 that was scheduled to mature before June 30, 2009. The guarantee will extend to June 30, 2012 even if the maturity of the debt is after that date. The Company did not opt out of the program and therefore is covered by these provisions. 37 Table of Contents The actual impact that EESA, ARRA and the President’s Homeowner Affordability and Stability Plan, undertaken to alleviate the credit crisis, will have generally on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced, is unknown. The failure of such measures to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of the Company’s common stock. Because of participation in the Troubled Asset Relief Program, the Company is subject to several restrictions including restrictions on the ability to declare or pay dividends and repurchase shares as well as restrictions on compensation paid to executives. On January 16, 2009, the Company issued to the U.S. Department of the Treasury, as the initial selling securityholder, series A preferred stock. Pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Agreement, the Company’s ability to declare or pay dividends on any of its shares is limited. Specifically, the Company is unable to declare dividend payments on common, junior preferred or pari passu preferred shares if the Company is in arrears on the dividends on the series A preferred stock. Further, the Company is not permitted to increase dividends on common stock above the amount of the last quarterly cash dividend per share declared prior to October 14, 2008 without the initial selling security holder’s approval until the third anniversary of the investment unless all of the series A preferred stock has been redeemed or transferred. In addition, the ability to repurchase shares is restricted. The initial selling security holder’s consent generally is required to make any stock repurchase until the third anniversary of the investment by the initial selling security holder unless all of the series A preferred stock has been redeemed or transferred. Further, common, junior preferred or pari passu preferred shares may not be repurchased if the Company is in arrears on the series A preferred stock dividends. In addition, pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Agreement, the Company adopted the initial selling security holder’s standards for executive compensation and corporate governance for the period during which the initial selling security holder holds the equity issued pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, including the common stock which may be issued pursuant to the warrant. These standards generally apply to the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the three next most highly compensated senior executive officers. The standards include (1) ensuring that incentive compensation for senior executives does not encourage unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the value of the financial institution; (2) required clawback of any bonus or incentive compensation paid to a senior executive based on statements of earnings, gains or other criteria that are later proven to be materially inaccurate; (3) prohibition on making golden parachute payments to senior executives; and (4) agreement not to deduct for tax purposes executive compensation in excess of $500,000 for each senior executive. In particular, the change to the deductibility limit on executive compensation will likely increase the overall cost of compensation programs in future periods in which the TARP preferred stock remains outstanding. Under ARRA, the Secretary of the Treasury is to adopt regulations which amend the executive compensation limitations set forth above. These regulations must include the following restrictions that apply during the period in which any obligation arising from financial assistance provided under TARP remains outstanding: (i) limits on compensation that exclude incentives for senior executive officers of TARP recipients to take unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the value of such recipient; (ii) a provision for recovery of any bonus, retention award or incentive compensation paid to a senior executive officer and any of the next 20 most highly-compensated employees of the TARP recipient based on statements of earnings, revenues, gains or other criteria later found to be materially inaccurate; (iii) a prohibition on such TARP recipient from paying any golden parachute payment to a senior executive officer and any of the next 5 most highly-compensated employees of the TARP recipient; (iv) a prohibition on such TARP recipient paying or accruing any bonus, retention award or incentive compensation, except for the payment of long-term restricted stock that does not fully vest during the period in which any financial assistance provided to the TARP recipient remains outstanding, has a value that is not greater than 1/3 the total annual compensation of the employee receiving the stock, and is subject to such other terms as determined by the Secretary; (v) a prohibition on any compensation that would encourage the manipulation of the reported earnings of the TARP recipient to enhance compensation of any employee and (vi) a requirement for the establishment of a Board Compensation 38 Table of Contents Committee that meets the requirements set forth below. The restrictions in (iv) above apply to the 5 most highly compensated employees of the Company. This restriction does not apply to any bonus payment required to be paid pursuant to a written employment contract executed on or before February 11, 2009. The chief executive officer and chief financial officer of the Company must provide a written certification of compliance by the TARP recipient with the requirements described above, which must be filed with the SEC. The Bank operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. The Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OTS and by the FDIC, as insurer of deposits. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and depositors. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on operations, the classification of assets and determination of the level of the allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 