ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS Readers and prospective investors in our securities should carefully consider the following risk factors as well as the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair our business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of the Company’s securities could decline significantly, and shareholders could lose all or part of their investment. Market and Interest Rate Risk Changes in interest rates could reduce income and cash flow The discussion in this report under “Market and Interest Rate Risk Management” and “Earnings Sensitivity” is incorporated by reference in this paragraph. The Company’s income and cash flow depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest earned on loans and investment securities, and the interest paid on deposits and other borrowings. We cannot control or prevent changes in the level of interest rates. They fluctuate in response to general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the FRB. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits and other liabilities. Risks related to the nature and geographical location of Capital Corp of the West’s business Capital Corp of the West invests in loans that contain inherent credit risks that may cause us to incur losses The Company closely monitors the markets in which it conducts its lending operations and adjusts its strategy to control exposure to loans with higher credit risk. Asset reviews are performed using grading standards and criteria similar to those employed by bank regulatory agencies. We can provide no assurance that the credit quality of our loans will not deteriorate in the future and that such deterioration will not adversely affect Capital Corp of the West. Deterioration of local economic conditions could hurt our profitability. Our operations are primarily located in the Central Valley of California. As a result of this geographic concentration, our financial results depend largely upon economic conditions in these areas. The local economy relies heavily on real estate, agriculture and ranching. A significant downturn in any or all of these industries could result in a decline in the local economy in general, which could in turn negatively impact us. Poor economic conditions could cause us to incur losses associated with higher default rates and decreased collateral values in our loan portfolio. Also, if there were significant recessionary conditions in our market area, our financial condition would be negatively impacted. -21- Table of Contents The markets in which Capital Corp of the West operates are subject to the risk of earthquakes and other natural disasters Most of the properties of Capital Corp of the West are located in California. Also, most of the real and personal properties which currently secure the Company's loans are located in California. California is a state which is prone to earthquakes, brush fires, flooding and other natural disasters. In addition to possibly sustaining damage to its own properties, if there is a major earthquake, flood or other natural disaster, Capital Corp of the West faces the risk that many of its borrowers may experience uninsured property losses, or sustained job interruption and/or loss which may materially impair their ability to meet the terms of their loan obligations. A major earthquake, flood or other natural disaster in California could have a material adverse effect on Capital Corp of the West's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Substantial competition in the California banking market could adversely affect us Banking is a highly competitive business. We compete actively for loan, deposit, and other financial services business in California. Our competitors include a large number of state and national banks, thrift institutions and credit unions, as well as many financial and non-financial firms that offer services similar to those offered by us. Other competitors include large financial institutions that have substantial capital, technology and marketing resources. Such large financial institutions may have greater access to capital at a lower cost than us, which may adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. Risks associated with potential acquisitions or divestitures or restructuring may adversely affect us We may seek to acquire or invest in financial and non-financial companies, technologies, services or products that complement our business. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in completing any such acquisition or investment as this will depend on the availability of prospective target opportunities at valuation levels which we find attractive and the competition for such opportunities from other bidders. In addition, we continue to evaluate the performance of all of our subsidiaries, businesses and business lines and may sell, liquidate or otherwise divest a subsidiary, business or business line. Any acquisitions, divestitures or restructuring may result in the issuance of potentially dilutive equity securities, significant write-offs, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, and/or the incurrence of debt, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Acquisitions, divestitures or restructuring could involve numerous additional risks including difficulties in obtaining any required regulatory approvals and in the assimilation or separation of operations, services, products and personnel, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, higher than expected deposit attrition (run-off), divestitures required by regulatory authorities, the disruption of our business, and the potential loss of key employees. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in addressing these or any other significant risks encountered. Regulatory Risks Restrictions on dividends and other distributions could limit amounts payable to us As a holding Company, a substantial portion of our cash flow typically comes from dividends of our Bank. Various statutory provisions restrict the amount of dividends our Bank can pay to us without regulatory approval. Adverse effects of, or changes in, banking or other laws and regulations or governmental fiscal or monetary policies could adversely affect us We are subject to significant federal and state regulation and supervision, which is primarily for the benefit and protection of our customers and not for the benefit of investors. In the past, our business has been materially affected by these regulations. This trend is likely to continue in the future. Laws, regulations or policies, including accounting standards and interpretations currently affecting us and our subsidiaries, may change at any time. Regulatory authorities may also change their interpretation of these statutes and regulations. Therefore, our business may be adversely affected by any future changes in laws, regulations, policies or interpretations or regulatory approaches to compliance and enforcement, including legislative and regulatory reactions to acts of terrorism, and major U.S. corporate bankruptcies and reports of accounting irregularities at U.S. public companies. -22- Table of Contents Additionally, our business is affected significantly by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. We are particularly affected by the policies of the FRB, which regulates the supply of money and credit in the U.S. Under long-standing policy of the FRB, the Company is expected to act as a source of financial strength for its subsidiary banks. As a result of that policy, we may be required to commit financial and other resources to our subsidiary bank in circumstances where we might not otherwise do so. Among the instruments of monetary policy available to the FRB are (a) conducting open market operations in U.S. government securities, (b) changing the discount rates of borrowings by depository institutions, and (c) imposing or changing reserve requirements against certain borrowings by banks and their affiliates. These methods are used in varying degrees and combinations to directly affect the availability of bank loans and deposits, as well as the interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits. The policies of the FRB may have a material effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Systems, Accounting and Internal Control Risks The accuracy of the Company’s judgments and estimates about financial and accounting matters will impact operating results and financial condition The discussion under “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in this report and the information referred to in that discussion is incorporated by reference in this paragraph. The Company’s makes certain estimates and judgments in preparing its financial statements. The quality and accuracy of those estimates and judgments will have an impact on the Company’s operating results and financial condition. The Company’s information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Company’s customer relationship management and systems. There can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately corrected by the Company. The occurrence of any such failures, interruptions or security breaches could damage the Company’s reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Company to litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented Management regularly reviews and updates the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls and procedures, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the Company’s controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None -23- Table of Contents ITEM 