ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company is subject to a variety of risks, including the risks described below as well as adverse business conditions. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties, not known or described below, which have not been determined to be material may also impair the Company’s business operations. You should carefully consider the risks described below together with all other information in this report, including information contained in the “Forward-Looking Statements,” “Business”, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk& #8221; sections. If any of the following risks occur, the Company’s financial condition and results of 7 operations could be adversely affected. Such events may cause actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results, and the trading price of the Company’s stock could decline. The economic downturn, specifically in the New York City metropolitan area, has resulted in a decrease in construction spending in the private and public sectors in the market the Company serves. In the past, the Company has experienced several projects placed on hold or terminated. Current or future projects could be delayed or cancelled, which would reduce the Company’s future revenues. The Company has a written employment agreement with Floyd Warkol, its Chairman and CEO, which expires on December 31, 2011. The Company maintains a $3,000,000 insurance policy on the life of the CEO, with proceeds payable to the Company. The Company has no other current employment or non-competition agreements with senior management. Because the Company relies on senior management’s relationships with its customers and in the construction industry in New York City, the failure to retain senior management would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company’s continued ability to obtain bonding is critical to its ability to bid on most public work and on certain private projects. The surety’s provision of bonding pursuant to its arrangement with the Company is solely at the surety’s discretion, and the arrangement with the surety is an at-will arrangement subject to termination. The Company’s inability to obtain surety bonds as needed could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company has in the past experienced erosion in gross profit margins due to lower than anticipated labor productivity and higher labor costs related to shortages of skilled labor and unforeseen jobsite conditions. There can be no assurance that these factors will not affect productivity and profitability in the future. The Company has in the past experienced significant increases in the cost of steel piping materials, which is the primary material used by the Company on projects. Future increases may impact the Company’s profit margins to the extent the Company is not able to pass such increased costs on to its customers or lock-in prices under long-term purchase agreements. The Company relies on a relatively small number of customers for a significant share of its revenues. The loss of business from any of these significant customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and its operating results. The Company faces intense competition due to the highly competitive nature of the mechanical contracting market that could limit its ability to increase its market share and its revenues. During the construction period, owners or general contractors may require the Company to perform certain work which is a change to or in addition to the original contract. Such work often requires months to obtain formal change orders (including dollar amounts). Change orders are often the subject of dispute and sometimes litigation. The failure of an owner or general contractor to issue change orders or make payments could delay receipt of receivables and require litigation to collect sums due the Company. 8 Slow receipt of collections may also result from financial difficulties of a general contractor or an owner. The Company’s inability to collect its contract balance on a project could have a material adverse effect on its operating results. Although the Company’s operations are not directly affected by inflation, both New York City and New York State have large debt service burdens. Inflationary pressures historically have tended to result in a reduction in capital spending by both state and local agencies; such capital expenditure reductions in turn could have a negative impact on the Company’s revenues. Failure of the Company’s subcontractors or providers of equipment to perform as anticipated could have a negative impact on the Company’s results. The Company subcontracts a portion of its contracts to specialty subcontractors, and the Company is ultimately responsible for the successful completion of their work. The Company also utilizes equipment manufacturers and suppliers which are responsible for delivering specified products on a timely basis. Although the Company utilizes highly respected companies and sometime requires performance bonds, there is no guarantee that the Company will not incur a material loss due to performance issues related to these arrangements. During the third quarter of 2009, a Joint Venture in which the Company and Five Star Electric Corporation each have a 50 percent ownership interest was awarded a $46 million contract for the construction of a chiller plant at the World Trade Center site. The work covered by the Joint Venture is made up of three components, (1) a mechanical segment performed by the Company, (2) an electrical segment performed by the Company’s joint venture partner and (3) a general construction segment. The Joint Venture has issued three contracts, (1) to the Company to perform the mechanical work, (2) to the Company’s partner to perform the electrical work and (3) to a construction manager to perform the general construction work as an agent for the Joint Venture, on a reimbursable cost plus fee basis. The Company has provided a guaranteed maximum price for the mechanical segment of the contract, and its joint venture partner has provided a guaranteed maximum price for the electrical segment of the contract. The Company shares joint venture profits/losses derived from the general construction segment equally with its joint venture partner. If the other partner is unable to complete its contractual obligations, the Company would be fully liable to do so under the Joint Venture’s contract with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. The Company and its partner are also jointly and severally liable to the bonding company that issued the payment and performance bond for the Joint Venture. Circumstances that could lead to a loss under the joint venture agreement beyond the Company’s stated ownership interest include the other partner’s inability to contribute additional funds to the venture in the event the project incurs a loss, additional costs that the Company could incur should the partner fail to provide the services and resources toward project completion that it committed to provide in the joint venture agreement, and the partner’s failure to pay its subcontractors and suppliers. Accounting for contract related revenues and costs as well as other cost items requires management to make a variety of significant estimates and assumptions. Although the Company 9 believes it has sufficient experience and processes to enable it to formulate appropriate assumptions and produce reliable estimates, these assumptions and estimates may change significantly in the future, and these changes could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and results of operations. The Company’s success depends on attracting and retaining qualified personnel in a competitive environment. The single largest factor in the Company’s ability to profitably execute its work is its ability to attract, develop and retain qualified personnel. The Company’s success in attracting qualified personnel is dependent on the resources available, the impact of general economic conditions on the labor supply, and the ability to provide competitive compensation. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 