D. Risk factors. The Company, and thus the securities of the Company, should be considered a highly speculative investment and investors should carefully consider all of the information disclosed in this Annual Report prior to making an investment in the Company. In addition to the other information presented in this Annual Report, the following risk factors should be given special consideration when evaluating an investment in any of the Company's securities. Any or all of these risks could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and on the market price of its common stock. 2 (a) The Company's limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate the Company's current business and forecast future results. The Company has only a limited operating history on which to base an evaluation of the Company's current business and prospects, each of which should be considered in light of the risks, expenses and problems frequently encountered in the early stages of growth of all companies, and in mining companies in particular. The Company has not commenced mining operations and is still in the exploratory and permitting stage. The Company may not be able to obtain all of the permits which are necessary for it to commence operations. The Company’s mining operations may not be successful. As a result of this limited operating history, period-to-period comparisons of the Company’s operating results may not be meaningful and the results for any particular period should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. (b) The diamond mining business is speculative and the Company may not be successful in implementing its plans to establish a successful and profitable diamond mining business Resource exploration and possible development is a speculative business, characterized by a number of significant risks including, among other things, unprofitable efforts resulting not only from the failure to discover mineral deposits but from finding mineral deposits which, though present, are insufficient in quantity and quality to return a profit from production. Diamonds acquired or discovered by the Company may be required to be sold at a price which is reflective of the market at that time. (c) The Company has no significant source of operating cash flow and failure to generate revenues in the future could cause the Company to go out business. The Company currently has no significant source of operating cash flow. The Company has limited financial resources. The Company's ability to achieve and maintain profitability and positive cash flow is dependent upon the Company's ability to generate revenues. The Company’s current operations do not generate any cash flow. The Company’s annual operating costs, excluding its share of costs of the Gahcho Kué project, are approximately $1.7 million. (d) The Company is in the exploration and development stage and may never become profitable. The Company's properties are primarily in the feasibility study and permitting stage. Company mining operations may never become profitable. Drilling of the 5034, Hearne and Tuzo kimberlite pipes has been extensive and has now been completed. There are no estimates of reserves. Estimates of mineral deposits, development plans and production costs, when made, can be affected by such factors as environmental permit regulations and requirements, weather, environmental factors, unforeseen technical difficulties, unusual or unexpected geological formations and work interruptions. In addition, the grade of diamonds ultimately discovered may differ from that indicated by bulk sampling results. Mine plans and processing concepts that have been developed are preliminary in nature. (e) The preliminary process testing may not be accurate in predicting the actual presence and recoverability of diamonds on Company properties. Process testing is limited to small scale testing based on a number of laboratory test programs, trade-off studies and design evaluations. There can be no assurance that diamonds recovered in small scale tests will be duplicated in large scale tests under on-site conditions or in production scale. Difficulties may be experienced in obtaining the expected diamond recoveries when scaling up to a production scale process plant. (f) The Company currently does not have adequate funds to explore properties other than the Gahcho Kué Project. The Company does not have the ability to pay for exploration or development costs on its other properties. If such funds were available, there is no assurance that expending such funds would result in discovery of any diamondiferous kimberlite. 3 (g) The Company has a history of losses and is likely to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. The Company has a history of losses and is likely to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. During the fiscal nine month period ended December 31, 2009, and the fiscal years ended March 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company incurred net losses or earnings during each of the following periods: • $1.458 million loss for the nine months ended December 31, 2009. • $1.538 million net loss for the year ended March 31, 2009; and, • $0.166 million net earnings for the year ended March 31, 2008. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had an accumulated deficit of $28.9 million. There can be no assurance that the Company will ever be profitable. None of the Company's properties have advanced to the commercial production stage, and the Company has no history of earnings or cash flow from operations and, as an exploration and development company, has only a history of losses. (h) The Company may never recover the amounts it has capitalized for mineral property costs. The recoverability of the amounts capitalized for mineral properties in the Company's consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance with Canadian generally accepted accounting principles, is dependent upon the ability of the Company to complete exploration and development, the discovery of economically recoverable reserves, and, if warranted, upon future profitable production or proceeds from disposition of some or all of the Company's mineral properties. (i) The Company’s failure to generate revenues in the future could cause the Company to go out of business. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had cash and short-term investments of approximately $9.9 million and working capital of approximately $8.3 million. During the past three fiscal years ended December 31, 2009 (nine months), and March 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company used approximately $3.760 million in cash flows in operating activities including approximately $1.388 million during the nine months ended December 31, 2009, $1.142 million during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009, and $1.230 million during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008. The Company's administrative and other expenses are expected to be approximately $1.7 million for the next year, in addition to an estimated $7 million for expenses for the Gahcho Kué joint venture for 2010, and possible repayments of historic sunk costs. The Company will be required to raise additional capital through equity and/or debt financings in the very near future on terms that may be dilutive to its shareholders' interests in the Company and to the value of their common shares. The Company may consider debt financing, joint ventures, production sharing arrangements, disposing of properties or other arrangements to meet its capital requirements in the future. Such arrangements may have a material adverse affect on the Company's business or results of operations. As well, there is no guarantee that the Company will be able to raise additional capital, or to raise additional capital on terms and conditions which it finds acceptable. If the Company is not able to raise sufficient capital, it may not be able to grow the Company, or it may be forced to cease doing business. (j) The Company’s properties have no proven reserves. The properties in which the Company has an interest are all in the advanced feasibility study and permitting stage and at this point, there are only indicated and inferred resources in four kimberlite bodies in Kennady Lake. See “Item 4D - Property, plants and equipment - Principal Properties”. The Company has not yet determined whether its mineral properties contain mineral reserves that are economically recoverable. Failure to discover economically recoverable reserves will require the Company to write-off costs capitalized in its financial statements. 4 (k) If the Company does not hold good title to properties, its ability to explore and eventually mine them could be prevented or restricted. The Company’s business depends upon having clear title to its properties and its ability to develop and mine its properties without undue restriction. If any of its properties are subject to prior unregistered agreements that restrict the use of the properties, or if it does not hold title to the properties as it believes it does, its ability to develop and mine on those properties could be limited or prevented completely. This would have a material adverse effect on the business and its results of operation. (l) Diamond prices can fluctuate significantly, and as a result, the Company’s results of operation may fluctuate significantly. The market for rough diamonds is subject to strong influence from demand in the United States, which is the largest market for polished diamonds, and supply from major producers such as Alrosa of Russia and Debswana of Botswana. The price of diamonds has historically fluctuated. The price of diamonds dropped sharply after September 11, 2001. Between 2003 and 2006 diamond prices increased on average by approximately 15%. In 2007, rough diamond prices increased by an average of 25%, and in the first five months of 2008, by a further 11%. From about mid-2008 to mid-April 2009, rough diamond prices fell sharply with concerns of the global economic environment of the time. Starting in mid-April 2009, rough diamond prices have started to rebound, tempered by concerns of consumer buying confidence and behaviour. Such fluctuations make it difficult to predict future diamond prices and, the Company’s future results of operation may fluctuate significantly with rough diamond prices. (m) The Company may incur significant costs to comply with Environmental and Government Regulation The current and anticipated future operations of the Company, including development activities and commencement of production on its properties, require permits from various federal, territorial and local governmental authorities and such operations are and will be governed by laws and regulations governing prospecting, development, mining, production, exports, taxes, labour standards, occupational health, waste disposal, toxic substances, land use, environmental protection, mine safety and other matters. Companies engaged in the development and operation of mines and related facilities generally experience increased costs, and delays in development, production and other schedules as a result of the need to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permits. The Company's development activities and its potential mining and processing operations in Canada are subject to various Canadian Federal and Territorial laws governing land use, the protection of the environment, prospecting, development, production, exports, taxes, labour standards, occupational health, waste disposal, toxic substances, mine safety and other matters. Such exploration, development and operation activities are also subject to substantial regulation under these laws by governmental agencies and may require that the Company obtain permits from various governmental agencies. The Company believes it is in substantial compliance with all material laws and regulations which currently apply to its activities. There can be no assurance, however, that all permits which the Company may require for construction of mining facilities and conduct of mining operations will be obtainable on reasonable terms or that such laws and regulations, or that new legislation or modifications to existing legislation, would not have an adverse effect on any development or mining activities which the Company might undertake. Further detail on governmental regulation may be found in “Item 4 - Business Review - Government Regulation”, below. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permit requirements may result in enforcement actions thereunder, including orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities causing operations to cease or be curtailed, and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment or remedial actions. Parties engaged in mining operations may be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage by reason of the mining activities and may have civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed for violation of applicable laws or regulations. The amount of funds required to comply with all environmental regulations and to pay for compensation in the event of a breach of such laws may exceed the Company's ability to pay such amounts. 5 Amendments to current laws, regulations and permits governing operations and activities of mining companies, or more stringent implementation of existing or new laws, could have a material adverse impact on the Company and cause increases in capital expenditures or production costs or reduction in levels of production at producing properties or require abandonment or delays in development of new mining facilities. (n) Climate and transportation costs may increase and have a negative effect on the Company’s results of operation. The Gahcho Kué Project is subject to climate and transportation risks because of its remote northern location. Such factors can add to the cost of exploration, development and operation, thereby increasing costs and negatively affecting profitability. (o) The Company is dependent upon its joint venture partner for the success of the Gahcho Kué Project. The Company, and the success of the Gahcho Kué Project, are dependent on the efforts, expertise and capital resources of our joint venture partner, De Beers Canada, and its parent De Beers. De Beers Canada is the project operator and is responsible for exploring, permitting, developing and operating the Gahcho Kué Project. In addition, De Beers Canada is providing its share of financing for the project. The Company is dependent on De Beers Canada for accurate information about the Gahcho Kué Project, and the proper and timely progress of exploration, permitting and development. (p) Operating Hazards and Risks Diamond mining involves many risks. Operations in which the Company has a direct or indirect interest will be subject to all the hazards and risks (such as accidents, injuries, and hazardous waste) normally incidental to exploration, development and production of resources, any of which could result in work stoppages, damage to property and possible environmental damage. (q) There are numerous factors beyond the control of the Company that may affect the marketability of any diamonds discovered. Factors beyond the control of the Company may affect the marketability of any diamonds produced. Significant price movements over short periods of time may be affected by numerous factors beyond the control of the Company, including international economic and political trends, expectations of inflation, currency exchange fluctuations (specifically, the U.S. dollar relative to the Canadian dollar and other currencies), interest rates and global and/or regional consumption patterns. The effect of these factors on the prices of diamonds and therefore the economic viability of any of the Company's projects cannot accurately be predicted. (r) The Company's expectations reflected in forward looking statements may prove to be incorrect. This Form 20-F includes "forward looking statements". A shareholder or prospective shareholder should bear this in mind when assessing the Company's business. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, included in this annual report, including, without limitation, the statements under and located elsewhere herein regarding industry prospects and the Company's financial position are forward-looking statements. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in such forward looking statements are reasonable, such expectations may prove to be incorrect. (s) The Mineral Resources Industry is intensely competitive and the Company competes with many companies with greater financial means and technical facilities. The resource industry is intensely competitive in all of its phases, and the Company competes with many companies possessing greater financial resources and technical facilities. Competition could adversely affect the Company's ability to acquire suitable producing properties or prospects for exploration in the future. 6 (t) Future equity financings which the Company may undertake would cause shareholders’ interests in the Company to be diluted. The Company's current operations do not generate any cash flow. As the Company seeks additional equity financing, the issuance of additional shares will dilute the interests of the Company's current shareholders. The amount of the dilution would depend on the number of new shares issued and the price at which they are issued. The Company has raised funds in recent years through share, option and warrant issuances. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had cash and short-term investment of approximately $9.9 million and working capital of approximately $8.3 million. The Company is currently investigating various sources of additional liquidity to increase the cash balances required for ongoing operations over the foreseeable future. These additional sources include, but are not limited to, share offerings, private placements, credit facilities, and debt, as well as further possible exercises of outstanding options by directors and officers. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to raise additional funds as needed, or that funds raised, if any, would be on terms and conditions acceptable to the Company. The Company’s annual cash administrative operating costs, excluding the costs directly associated with the Gahcho Kué Project, are approximately $1.7 million. (u) If outstanding options to buy Company stock are exercised, existing shareholders’ interests in the Company will be diluted. As at March 29, 2010, there were 1,234,635 options outstanding with exercise prices ranging from $1.26 to $4.50 (expiring at various dates). There were 3,217,000 warrants outstanding with exercise prices ranging from $2.00 to $3.20, expiring between February 4, 2011, and June 8, 2011. The stock options and warrants, if fully exercised, would increase the number of shares outstanding by 4,451,635. Such options, if fully exercised, would constitute about 6.3% (out of 71,083,381 shares (66,631,746 issued and outstanding, plus total outstanding options and warrants)) of the Company's resulting share capital as at March 29, 2010. It is unlikely that outstanding options and warrants would be exercised unless the market price of the Company's common shares exceeds the exercise price at the date of exercise. The exercise of such options and the subsequent resale of such Common shares in the public market could adversely affect the prevailing market price and the Company's ability to raise equity capital in the future at a time and price which it deems appropriate. The Company may also enter into commitments in the future which would require the issuance of additional common shares and the Company may grant new share purchase warrants and stock options. Any share issuances from the Company's treasury will result in dilution to existing shareholders. (v) Members of our Board of Directors may have outside interests which conflict with the Company or its shareholders. Patrick Evans and Jennifer Dawson have Consulting Agreements with the Company (see “Item 6C - Board Practices”). In addition, certain officers and directors of the Company are associated with other natural resource companies that acquire interests in mineral properties. Such associations may give rise to conflicts of interest from time to time. (w) If the Company is not able to attract and maintain qualified key management personnel, it may not be able to successfully implement its planned business activities and growth. The nature of the Company's business, its ability to continue its development and permitting activities and to thereby develop a competitive edge in its marketplace depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and maintain qualified key management personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to attract and retain such personnel. The Company's development to date has depended, and in the future will continue to depend, on the efforts of Patrick Evans. See “Item 7B -Related party transactions” and “Item 6C - Board Practices”. Loss of the key person could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company does not maintain key-man life insurance on Patrick Evans. 7 (x) The Company’s stock price is subject to significant fluctuations. Prices for the Company's shares on the TSX and on the NYSE Amex, have been extremely volatile. The price for the Company's common shares on the TSX ranged from $0.86 (low) and $3.07 (high) during the nine-month fiscal period ended December 31, 2009, and from $0.75 (low) to $5.05 (high) during the nine-month fiscal period ended March 31, 2009. The price on the NYSE Amex ranged from $0.69 US (low) and $2.90 US (high) during the nine-month fiscal period ended December 31, 2009, and from $0.58 US (low) to $4.95 US (high) during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009. Any investment in the Company's securities is therefore subject to considerable fluctuations in value. (y) The Company has not paid dividends in the past and does not anticipate paying them in the foreseeable future. Since its inception, the Company has not paid any cash dividends on its common stock and does not anticipate paying any cash dividends on its common stock in the foreseeable future. Without dividends on its common stock, shareholders will be able to profit from an investment only if the price of the stock appreciates before the shareholder sells it. (z) Currency rate fluctuations may have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, and timing of the development of the Company’s properties. Feasibility and other studies conducted to evaluate the Company's properties are denominated in U.S. dollars, and the Company conducts a significant portion of its operations and incurs a significant portion of its administrative and operating costs in Canadian dollars. The exchange rate for converting U.S. dollars into Canadian dollars has fluctuated in recent years. Accordingly, the Company is subject to fluctuations in the rates of currency exchange between the U.S. dollar and the Canadian dollar, and these fluctuations in the rates of currency exchange may materially affect the Company's financial position, results of operations and timing of the development of its properties. In particular, the recent strong increase in the value of the Canadian dollar compared to the U.S. dollar should be expected to have a material impact on projected future capital and operating costs, which could impact on the economic viability of the Gahcho Kué Project. (aa) Histocially, the Company has been dependent on the support of De Beers and there is no assurance that their support will continue in the future. The exploration of the Gahcho Kué Project has historically been funded by De Beers, De Beers is the operator of the Project, and De Beers Canada has made an equity investment in the Company. With the execution of the 2009 Joint Venture Agreement, De Beers and the Company share funding responsibility for the Gahcho Kué Project. Under the 2009 Joint Venture Agreement, the Company and De Beers are required to fund their share of costs for future operations. As well, the Company is required to make certain repayments of agreed historic costs of the Project, funded by De Beers, if and when certain events occur. If either party is unable to fund their share of costs, or, if the Company defaults on its required payments of historic costs if and when they are due, in addition to interest on late or defaulted payments, marketing rights can be diluted for the defaulting party. As well, there is no assurance that the Company will have the required funds on hand when the payments are required to be made. However, there is no assurance that the level of support provided by De Beers will continue in the future. (bb) It will be difficult for any shareholder of the Company to commence legal activation against the Company’s executives. Enforcing judgments won against them or the Company will be difficult. As the Company is a Canadian company, it may be difficult for U.S. shareholders of the Company to effect service of process on the Company or to realize on judgments obtained against the Company in the United States. Some of the Company’s directors and officers are residents of Canada and a significant part of the Company’s assets are, or will be, located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for shareholders resident in the United States to effect service of process within the United States upon the Company, directors, officers or experts who are not residents of the United States, or to realize in the United States judgments of courts of the United States predicated upon civil liability of any of the Company directors or officers under the United States federal securities laws. If a judgment is obtained in the U.S. courts based on civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against the Company or its directors or officers it will be difficult to enforce the judgment in the Canadian courts against the Company and any of the Company's non-U.S. resident executive officers or directors. Accordingly, United States shareholders may be forced to bring actions against the Company and its respective directors and officers under Canadian law and in Canadian courts in order to enforce any claims that they may have against the Company or the Company’s directors and officers. Subject to necessary registration, as an extra provincial company, under applicable provincial corporate statutes in the case of a corporate shareholder, Canadian courts do not restrict the ability of non-resident persons to sue in their courts. Nevertheless it may be difficult for United States shareholders to bring an original action in the Canadian courts to enforce liabilities based on the U.S. federal securities laws against the Company and any of the Company's Canadian executive officers or directors. 8 (cc) The Company’s common stock may be delisted from NYSE Amex, and if this occurs, shareholders may have difficulty converting their investment into cash efficiently. NYSE Amex has established certain standards for the continued listing of a security on this exchange. If our common stock were to be excluded from NYSE Amex, the prices of our common stock and the ability of shareholders to sell such stock would be adversely affected. If the Company were to be delisted, the Company would be required to comply with the initial listing requirements to be relisted on NYSE Amex. 