Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, operations and financial condition. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. This section does not describe all risks applicable to our business, and we intend it only as a summary of certain material factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock and our Series A Preferred Stock could decline. Health care reform may affect our profitability and may require us to change the way our business is conducted. Health care is an area of extensive and frequent regulatory change. The manner and the extent to which health care is regulated at the federal and state level is evolving. Changes in the laws or new interpretations of existing laws may have a significant effect on our methods and costs of doing business. Our success will depend partially on our ability to satisfy the applicable regulations and requirements and to procure and maintain required licenses. Our operations could also be adversely affected by, among other things, regulatory developments such as mandatory increases in the scope and quality of care given to the residents and revisions in licensing and certification standards. We are and will continue to be subject to varying degrees of regulation and licensing by health or social service agencies. We believe that our operations do not presently violate any existing federal or state laws, but we make no assurances that federal, state, or local laws or regulatory procedures which might adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects will not be expanded or imposed. A failure to comply with applicable requirements could cause us to be fined or could cause the cessation of our business, which would have a material adverse effect on our Company. 17 Table of Contents In March 2010, the PPACA and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 were signed into law. Together, these two measures make the most sweeping changes to the U.S. health care system since the creation of Medicare and Medicaid. These new laws include a large number of health care related provisions scheduled to take effect over the next four years, including expanding Medicaid eligibility, requiring most individuals to have health insurance, establishing new regulations on health plans, establishing health insurance exchanges and modifying certain payment systems to encourage more cost-effective care and a reduction of inefficiencies and waste, including new tools to address fraud and abuse. As the implementation of, and rulemaking with respect to, these measures is ongoing, we are unable to accurately predict the effect these laws or any future legislation or regulation will have on us or our operations, including future reimbursement rates and occupancy in our inpatient facilities. Our business depends on reimbursement under federal and state programs, and federal and state legislation or other changes to reimbursement and other aspects of Medicaid and Medicare may reduce or otherwise adversely affect reimbursement amounts. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from third-party payors, including Medicare and Medicaid programs. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects would be adversely affected in the event that reimbursement rates under these programs are reduced or rise more slowly than the rate at which our costs increase or if there are changes in the way these programs pay for services. For example, services for which we are currently reimbursed by Medicaid and Medicare may not continue to be reimbursed at adequate levels or at all, or further limits on the scope of services being reimbursed, delays or reductions in reimbursement or changes in other aspects of reimbursement could occur, each of which could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The Medicaid and Medicare programs are subject to statutory and regulatory changes affecting, among other things, base rates or basis of payment, retroactive rate adjustments, annual caps that limit the amount that can be paid (including deductible and coinsurance amounts) for rehabilitation therapy services rendered to Medicare beneficiaries, administrative or executive orders and government funding restrictions, all of which may materially adversely affect the rates and frequency at which these programs reimburse us for our services. For example, on July 29, 2011, CMS announced a final rule reducing Medicare skilled nursing facility PPS payments in fiscal year 2012 by $3.87 billion, or 11.1% lower than payments for fiscal year 2011. Moreover, CMS effectively reduced our Medicare reimbursement rates by nearly 11.7% by reducing rates as well as implementing changes to the RUG classification system. Similarly, in July 2011, Ohio Medicaid implemented reductions to the reimbursement rates of 6%. On August 2, 2011, President Obama signed into law the Budget Control Act of 2011, which requires the federal budget to include automatic spending reductions beginning in 2012, including reduction of not more than 2% to Medicare providers, but exempting reductions to certain Medicaid and Medicare benefits. With respect to Medicare, these automatic reductions went into effect on April 1, 2013. Also, on March 15, 2013, the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission recommended that Congress eliminate the market basket update and revise the prospective payment system to result in 2014 in a 4% reduction in Medicare payments to skilled nursing facilities, with subsequent reductions to follow. We are unable to accurately predict the impact these automatic and potential reductions will have on our business, and those reductions could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Recent federal governmental proposals could limit the states' use of provider tax programs to generate revenue for their Medicaid expenditures, which could result in a reduction in our reimbursement rates under Medicaid. To generate funds to pay for the increasing costs of the Medicaid 18 Table of Contents program, many states utilize financial arrangements commonly referred to as "provider taxes." Under provider tax arrangements, states collect taxes from healthcare providers and then use the revenue to pay the providers as a Medicaid expenditure, which allows the states to then claim additional federal matching funds on the additional reimbursements. Current federal law provides for a cap on the maximum allowable provider tax as a percentage of the provider's total revenue. There is no assurance that federal law will continue to provide matching federal funds on state Medicaid expenditures funded through provider taxes, or that the current caps on provider taxes will not be reduced. Any discontinuance or reduction in federal matching of provider tax-related Medicaid expenditures could have a significant and adverse effect on states' Medicaid expenditures and, as a result, could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We cannot currently estimate the magnitude of the potential Medicare and Medicaid rate or payment reductions, the impact of the failure of these programs to increase rates to match increasing expenses or the impact on us of potential Medicare and Medicaid policy changes, but they may be material to our operations and affect our future results of operations. We are unable to accurately predict whether future Medicare and Medicaid rates and payments will be sufficient to cover our costs. Future Medicare and Medicaid rate declines or a failure of these rates or payments to cover our costs could result in our experiencing materially lower earnings or losses. We conduct business in a heavily regulated industry, and changes in, or violations of, regulations may result in increased costs or sanctions that reduce our revenue and profitability. As a result of our participation in the Medicaid and Medicare programs, we are subject to, in the ordinary course of business, various governmental reviews, inquiries, investigations and audits by federal and state agencies to verify our compliance with these programs and laws and regulations applicable to the operation of, and reimbursement for, skilled nursing and assisted living facilities and our other operating areas. These regulations include those relating to licensure, conduct of operations, ownership of facilities, construction of new facilities and additions to existing facilities, allowable costs, services and prices for services. Recently, the federal government has imposed extensive enforcement policies resulting in a significant increase in the number of inspections, citations of regulatory deficiencies and other regulatory sanctions, including terminations from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, denials of payment for new Medicare and Medicaid admissions and civil monetary penalties. If we fail to comply, or are perceived as failing to comply, with the extensive laws and regulations applicable to our industry, then we may become ineligible to receive government program reimbursement, be required to refund amounts received from Medicare, Medicaid or private payors, suffer civil or criminal penalties, suffer damage to our reputation or be required to significantly change the way we operate our business. We operate in multiple states and the applicable regulatory provisions in each state are subject to changes over time. We continue to monitor state regulatory provisions applicable to our business to facilitate compliance with any revised or newly issued rules and policies. Federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws regulate both the provision of services to government program beneficiaries and the methods and requirements for submitting claims for services rendered to such beneficiaries. Under these laws, individuals and organizations can be penalized for submitting claims for services that are not provided, that have been inadequately provided, billed in an incorrect manner or other than as actually provided, not medically necessary, provided by an improper person, accompanied by an illegal inducement to utilize or refrain from utilizing a service or product, or billed or coded in a manner that does not otherwise comply with applicable governmental requirements. Penalties also may be imposed for violation of anti-kickback and patient referral laws. Federal and state governments have a range of criminal, civil and administrative sanctions available to penalize and remediate healthcare fraud and abuse, including exclusion of the provider from 19 Table of Contents participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, fines, criminal and civil monetary penalties and suspension of payments and, in the case of individuals, imprisonment. We also are subject to potential lawsuits under a federal whistleblower statute designed to combat fraud and abuse in the health care industry. These lawsuits can involve significant monetary awards to private plaintiffs who successfully bring these suits. We believe that we maintain and follow policies and procedures that are sufficient to ensure that our facilities will operate in substantial compliance with these anti-fraud and abuse requirements and other Medicare and Medicaid program criteria. While we believe that our business practices are consistent with Medicare and Medicaid criteria, those criteria are often vague and subject to change and interpretation. We are unable to accurately predict the future course of federal, state and local regulation or legislation, including Medicare and Medicaid statutes and regulations, or the intensity of federal and state enforcement actions. An adverse review, inquiry, investigation or audit could result in: •an obligation to refund amounts previously paid to us pursuant to the Medicare or Medicaid programs or from private payors, in amounts that could be material to our business; •state or federal agencies imposing fines, penalties and other sanctions on us; •loss of our right to participate in the Medicare or Medicaid programs or one or more private payor networks; •an increase in private litigation against us; and •harm to our reputation in various markets. An expanded federal program is underway to recover Medicare overpayments. The Medicare Modernization Act of 2003 established a three year demonstration project to recover overpayments and identify underpayments on Medicare claims from hospitals, skilled nursing facilities and home health agencies through a review of claims previously paid by Medicare beginning in October, 2007. Medicare contracted nationwide with third parties known as Recovery Audit Contractors ("RAC") to conduct these reviews commonly referred to as RAC Audits. Due to the success of the program, the Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006 made the program permanent and mandated its expansion to all 50 states in 2010. We are also subject to other audits under various government programs, including Zone Program Integrity Contractors, Program Safeguard Contractors and Medicaid Integrity Contractors, in which third-party firms engaged by CMS conduct extensive reviews of claims data and medical and other records to identify potential improper government payments. We make no assurances that our claims will not be selected for any such audits in the future and, if they are selected for any such audit, the extent to which these audits may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We are subject to claims under the self-referral and anti-kickback legislation. In the United States, various state and federal laws regulate the relationships between providers of health care services, physicians and other clinicians. In particular, various laws, including federal and state anti-kickback and anti-fraud statutes, prohibit certain business practices and relationships that might affect the provision and cost of health care services reimbursable under Medicare and Medicaid programs, including the payment or receipt of compensation for the referral of patients whose care will be paid by federal governmental programs. Sanctions for violating the anti-kickback and anti-fraud statutes include criminal penalties and civil sanctions, including fines and possible exclusion from governmental programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. 20 Table of Contents These laws and regulations are complex, and limited judicial or regulatory interpretation exists. While we make every effort to ensure compliance, we make no assurances that governmental officials charged with responsibility for enforcing the provisions of these laws and regulations will not assert that one or more of our arrangements are in violation of the provisions of such laws and regulations. Violations of these laws may result in substantial civil or criminal penalties for individuals or entities, including large civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in the Medicare or Medicaid programs. Such exclusion or penalties, if applied to us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We are required to comply with laws governing the transmission and privacy of health information. HIPAA requires us to comply with standards for the exchange of health information within our Company and with third parties, such as payors, business associates and patients. These include standards for common health care transactions, such as claims information, plan eligibility, payment information and the use of electronic signatures, unique identifiers for providers, employers, health plans and individuals, and security, privacy and enforcement. If we are found to be in violation of the privacy or security rules under HIPAA or other federal or state laws protecting the confidentiality of patient health information, we could be subject to criminal penalties and civil sanctions, which could increase our liabilities, harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We rely on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and manage or support a variety of business processes, including medical records, financial transactions and records, personal identifying information, payroll data and workforce scheduling information. We purchase some of our information technology from vendors, on whom our systems depend. We rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential patient, resident and other customer information, such as individually identifiable information, including information relating to health protected by HIPAA. Although we have taken steps to protect the security of our information systems and the data maintained in those systems, it is possible that our safety and security measures will not prevent the systems' improper functioning or damage or the improper access or disclosure of personally identifiable information such as in the event of cyber-attacks. Security breaches, including physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers and similar breaches can create system disruptions or shutdowns or the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. If personal or otherwise protected information of our patients is improperly accessed, tampered with or distributed, we may incur significant costs to remediate possible injury to the affected patients and we may be subject to sanctions and civil or criminal penalties if we are found to be in violation of the privacy or security rules under HIPAA or other similar federal or state laws protecting confidential patient health information. Any failure to maintain proper functionality and security of our information systems could interrupt our operations, damage our reputation, subject us to liability claims or regulatory penalties and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We intend to continue to expand our business through acquisitions. Our business model calls for seeking to acquire existing cash flowing operations and to expand our operations by pursuing an acquisition growth strategy to acquire and lease long-term care facilities, primarily skilled nursing facilities. Our success will largely depend on our ability to finance the new 21 Table of Contents acquisitions and implement and integrate the new acquisitions into our management systems. As a result, we expect to experience all of the risks that generally occur with rapid expansion such as: •adapting our management systems and personnel into the new acquisition; •integrating the new acquisition and businesses into our structure; •acquiring and operating new acquisitions and businesses in geographic regions in which we have not historically operated; •obtaining adequate financing under reasonable and acceptable terms; •retaining key personnel, customers and vendors of the acquired business and the hiring of new personnel; •obtaining all necessary state and federal regulatory approvals to authorize acquisitions; •impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets; and •contingent and latent risks associated with the past operations of, and other unanticipated costs and problems arising in, an acquired business. If we are unable to successfully integrate the operations of an acquired property or business into our operations, we could be required to undertake unanticipated changes. These changes could increase our operating costs and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We continue to seek acquisitions and other strategic opportunities that may require a significant amount of management resources and costs. We continue to seek acquisitions and other strategic opportunities. Accordingly, we are often engaged in evaluating potential transactions and other strategic alternatives. In addition, from time to time, we engage in preliminary discussions that may result in one or more transactions. Although there is uncertainty that any of these discussions will result in definitive agreements or the completion of any transaction, we may devote a significant amount of our management resources to such transactions, which could negatively impact our existing and continuing operations. In addition, we may incur significant costs in connection with exploring and targeting acquisitions, regardless of whether these acquisitions are completed. In the event that we consummate an acquisition or strategic alternative in the future, there is no assurance that we would complete the acquisition or fully realize the potential benefit of such a transaction even if it is completed. We will require additional financing in order to fund future acquisitions. The pursuit of our growth strategy and the acquisition of new skilled nursing facilities may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, capital expenditures, additional operating losses, amortization of the intangible assets of acquired companies, dilutive issuances of equity securities and other expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. During 2013, we will need to obtain additional financing to implement our expansion strategy and fund our acquisitions. We are currently exploring several financing alternatives and may seek to raise additional capital through the sale of additional debt or equity securities. As of December 31, 2012, we had an accumulated deficit of $25.8 million and a working capital deficit of approximately $5.9 million. Our cumulative losses have, in the past, made it difficult for us to borrow adequate funds on what management believed to be commercially reasonable terms. There is no assurance that we will succeed in obtaining financing or will be able to raise additional capital through the issuance of debt or equity securities on terms acceptable to us, or at all, or that any financing obtained will not contain restrictive 22 Table of Contents covenants that limit our operating flexibility. If we are unable to secure such additional financing, then we may be required to delay or modify our expansion plans. If we raise capital for new acquisitions through the sale of equity securities, then our shareholders may experience dilution. We may be unable to complete future facility or business acquisitions at attractive prices or at all, which may adversely affect our revenue and financial condition. The profitability of our operations relies on acquiring existing cash flowing operations and expanding our operations by acquiring and leasing long-term care facilities, primarily skilled nursing facilities. We face competition for the acquisition of these facilities and related businesses and expect this competition to increase. Based upon factors such as our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, the purchase price of the facilities, prevailing market conditions, the availability of leadership to manage new facilities and our willingness to take on new operations, the rate at which we have historically acquired facilities has fluctuated significantly. In the future, we anticipate the rate at which we may acquire facilities will continue to fluctuate, which may affect our revenue and financial condition. In undertaking acquisitions, we may be adversely impacted by costs, liabilities and regulatory issues that may adversely affect our operations. In acquiring new facilities, we may be adversely impacted by unforeseen liabilities attributable to prior providers who operated those facilities, against whom we may have little or no recourse. Even if we improve operations and patient care at facilities that we have acquired, we still may face post-acquisition regulatory issues related to pre-acquisition events. These may include, without limitation, payment recoupment related to our predecessors' prior noncompliance, the imposition of fines, penalties, operational restrictions or special regulatory status. Further, we may incur post-acquisition compliance risk due to the difficulty or impossibility of immediately or quickly bringing non-compliant facilities into full compliance. Diligence materials pertaining to acquisition targets, especially the underperforming facilities that often represent the greatest opportunity for return, are often inadequate, inaccurate or impossible to obtain, sometimes requiring us to make acquisition decisions with incomplete information. Despite our due diligence procedures, facilities that we have acquired or may acquire in the future may generate unexpectedly low returns, may cause us to incur substantial losses, may require unexpected levels of management time, expenditures or other resources or may otherwise not meet a risk profile that our investors find acceptable. In addition, we might encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to any of the acquired facilities, including contingent liabilities. For example, when we acquire a facility, we may assume the facility's existing Medicare provider number for purposes of billing Medicare for services. If CMS later determined that the prior owner of the facility had received overpayments from Medicare for the period of time during which it operated the facility, or had incurred fines in connection with the operation of the facility, CMS could hold us liable for repayment of the overpayments or fines. If the prior operator is defunct or otherwise unable to reimburse us, we may be unable to recover these funds. We may be unable to improve every facility that we acquire. In addition, operation of these facilities may divert management time and attention from other operations and priorities, negatively impact cash flows, result in adverse or unanticipated accounting charges or otherwise damage other areas of our Company if they are not timely and adequately improved. 23 Table of Contents We may not be able to successfully integrate acquired facilities and businesses into our operations, and we may not achieve the benefits we expect from any of our facility acquisitions. We may not be able to efficiently or effectively integrate newly acquired facilities with our existing operations, culture and systems. The process of integrating acquired facilities into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties, divert management's attention from existing operations or require an unexpected commitment of staff, financial or other resources, and the integration process may ultimately be unsuccessful. We recognize the importance of maintaining adequate staffing and supervision in our facilities at all times to ensure a high quality of care for our patients and residents. The financial benefits we expect to realize from many of our acquisitions rely largely upon our ability to improve performance, overcome regulatory deficiencies, increase and maintain occupancy and control costs. If we are unable to accomplish any of these objectives at facilities we acquire, we may not realize the expected benefits, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. State efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of health care providers could impair our ability to expand our operations or make acquisitions. Some states require health care providers (including skilled nursing facilities, hospices and assisted living facilities) to obtain prior approval, in the form of a Certificate of Need ("CON"), for the purchase, construction or expansion of health care facilities, capital expenditures exceeding a prescribed amount or changes in services or bed capacity. To the extent that we are unable to obtain any required CON or other similar approvals, our expansion could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, failure to obtain the necessary state approvals can also result in sanctions or adverse action on the facility's license and adverse reimbursement action. No assurances are given that we will be able to obtain a CON or other similar approval for any future projects requiring this approval or that such approvals will be timely. Circumstances that adversely affect the ability of seniors, or their families, to pay for our services could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Approximately 6% of our skilled nursing occupants and nearly all of the occupants of our assisted living facilities rely on their personal investments and wealth to pay for their stay in our facilities. We expect to continue to rely on the ability of our residents to pay for our services from their own financial resources. Inflation, continued high levels of unemployment, declines in market values of investments and home prices, or other circumstances that may adversely affect the ability of the elderly or their families to pay for our services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We depend largely upon reimbursement from third-party payors, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected by any changes in the mix of patients in our facilities as well as payor mix and payment methodologies. Our revenue is affected by the percentage of our patients who require a high level of skilled nursing and rehabilitative care, whom we refer to as high acuity patients, and by our mix of payment sources. Changes in our patient mix, as well as our payor mix among Medicaid, Medicare, private payors and managed care companies, may significantly affect our profitability because we generally receive higher reimbursement rates for certain patients, such as rehabilitation patients, and because the payors reimburse us at different rates. As a result, changes in the case mix of patients as well as the payor mix may significantly affect our profitability. Particularly, a significant increase in Medicaid patients will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, especially if states operating Medicaid programs continue to limit, or more aggressively seek limits on, reimbursement rates. 24 Table of Contents We operate in an industry that is highly competitive. The long-term care industry is highly competitive and we believe that it will become even more competitive in the future. We face direct competition for the acquisition of facilities, and in turn, we face competition for employees and patients. Our assisted living facilities and nursing homes face competition from skilled nursing, assisted living, independent living facilities, homecare services, community-based service programs, retirement communities and other operations that provide services comparable to those offered by us. We compete with national companies with respect to both our skilled nursing and assisted living facilities. Additionally, we also compete with local and regional based entities. Many of these competing companies have greater financial and other resources than we have. Failure to effectively compete with these companies may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our ability to compete is based on several factors, including, without limitation, building age, appearance, reputation, availability of patients, survey history and CMS rankings. We make no assurances that increases in competition in the future will not adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The cost to replace or retain qualified personnel may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, and we may not be able to comply with the staffing requirements of certain states. We could experience significant increases in our costs due to shortages in qualified nurses, health care professionals and other key personnel. We compete with other providers of home health care, nursing home care, and assisted living with respect to attracting and retaining qualified personnel, and the market is competitive. Because of the small markets in which we operate, shortages of nurses and trained personnel may require us to enhance our wage and benefit package in order to compete and attract qualified employees from more metropolitan areas. Further, acquisitions of new facilities may require us to pay increased compensation or offer other incentives to retain key personnel and other employees in any newly acquired facilities. Increased competition in the future with respect to attracting and maintaining key personnel could limit our ability to attract and retain residents or to expand our business. Certain states in which we currently operate, or may operate in the future, may have adopted minimum staffing standards, and additional states may also establish similar requirements in the future. Our ability to satisfy these requirements will depend upon our ability to attract and retain qualified, nurses, certified nurses' assistants and other personnel. Failure to comply with these requirements may result in the imposition of fines or other sanctions. If states do not appropriate sufficient additional funding, through Medicaid appropriations or otherwise, to pay for any additional operating costs resulting from minimum staffing requirements, then our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be adversely affected. To date, we have been able to adequately staff all of our operations and future operations following an acquisition. However, we make no assurances that the ability to adequately staff all of our operations will continue in the future. Additionally, increasing employee health and workers' compensation insurance costs may materially and negatively affect our profitability. We provide no assurances that our labor costs will not increase or that any increase will be matched by corresponding increases in rates we charge to facility residents. Our ability to control labor costs will significantly effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation in the future. 25 Table of Contents Successful union organization of our employees may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Periodically, labor unions attempt to organize our employees. Although we currently have no collective bargaining agreements with unions with respect to our employees or our facilities, there is no assurance that this will continue to be the case in the future. If future federal legislation makes it easier for employee groups to unionize, then groups of our employees may seek union representation. If more of our employees unionize, we could experience business interruptions, work stoppages, declines in service levels due to union specific rules or increased operating expenses that may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. If we lose our key management personnel, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our objectives, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We are dependent on our management team, and our future success depends largely upon the management experience, skill, and contacts of our management, and the loss of any of our key management team could harm our business. If we lose the services of any or all of our management team, we may not be able to replace them with similarly qualified personnel, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Termination of assisted living resident agreements and resident attrition could adversely affect our revenues and earnings. State regulations governing assisted living facilities typically require a written resident agreement with each resident. Most of these regulations also require that each resident have the right to terminate our assisted living resident agreement for any reason on reasonable notice. Consistent with these regulations, most resident agreements allow residents to terminate their agreements on 30 days' notice. Unlike typical leasing relationships which require a commitment of one year or more, we cannot contract with our residents for longer periods of time. In event that a substantial number of residents elect to terminate their resident agreements at or around the same time, our revenues and earnings could be materially and adversely affected. Environmental compliance costs and liabilities associated with our facilities may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental and health and safety laws and regulations with respect to our facilities. These laws and regulations address various matters, including asbestos, fuel oil management, wastewater discharges, air emissions, medical wastes and hazardous wastes. The costs of complying with these laws and regulations and the penalties for non-compliance can be substantial. For example, with respect to our owned and leased property, we may be held liable for costs relating to the investigation and cleanup of any of our owned or leased properties from which there has been a release or threatened release of a regulated material as well as other properties affected by the release. In addition to these costs, which are typically not limited by law or regulation and could exceed the property's value, we could be liable for certain other costs, including, without limitation, governmental fines and injuries to persons, property or natural resources. Further, some environmental laws create a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and the costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. While we are not aware of any potential environmental problems, no assurances are made that such problems and the costs associated with them will not arise in the future. If any of our properties were found to violate environmental laws, we may be required to expend significant amounts of time and money to rehabilitate the property, and we may be subject to significant liability. Any environmental compliance costs and liabilities incurred may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 26 Table of Contents Disasters and other adverse events may seriously harm our business. Our facilities and residents may suffer harm as a result of natural or man-made disasters such as storms, earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, fires, terrorist attacks and other conditions. Such events may disrupt our operations, harm our patients and employees, severely damage or destroy one more of our facilities, harm our business, reputation and financial performance, or otherwise cause our business to suffer in ways that cannot currently be predicted. The nature of business exposes us to certain litigation risks. The provision of health care services entails an inherent risk of liability. In recent years, participants in the long-term care industry have become subject to an increasing number of lawsuits alleging malpractice, negligence, product liability or other related legal theories. In several well publicized instances, private litigation by residents of senior living facilities for alleged abuses has resulted in large damage awards against other operating companies. Certain lawyers and firms specialize in bringing litigation against companies such as ours. As a result of this litigation, our cost of liability insurance has increased during the past few years. We currently maintain liability insurance. This insurance is intended to cover malpractice and other lawsuits. Although we believe that it is in keeping with industry standards, no assurances are made that claims in excess of our limits will not arise. Any such successful claims could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Claims against us, regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, may also have a material adverse effect upon our ability to attract and retain patients and key personnel. In addition, our insurance policies must be renewed annually, and no assurances are made that we will be able to retain coverage in the future or, if coverage is available, that it will be available on acceptable terms. We are subject to possible conflicts of interest; we have engaged in, and expect to continue to engage in, transactions with parties that may be considered related parties. From time to time, we have engaged in various transactions with Christopher Brogdon, Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, owner of greater than 10% of our outstanding common stock and former Chief Acquisition Officer of the Company. These transactions, along with other related party transactions, are described in Note 22 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8., "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." We believe that our affiliations with Mr. Brogdon, and other related parties have been, and will be, beneficial to us. Although we do not believe the potential conflicts have adversely affected, or will adversely affect, our business, others may disagree with this position. In the past, in particular following periods of financial instability, shareholder litigation and dissident shareholder director nominations and shareholder proposals have often been instituted against companies alleging conflicts of interest in business dealings with officers, directors and other affiliates. Our relationships with Mr. Brogdon and other related parties may give rise to such litigation, nominations or proposals which could result in substantial costs to us and a diversion of our resources and our management's attention, whether or not any allegations made are substantiated. The costs of being publicly owned may strain our resources and impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ("Sarbanes-Oxley Act"). The Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls for financial reporting. We are required to document and test our internal control procedures in order to 27 Table of Contents satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. These requirements may place a strain on our systems and resources and have required us, and may in the future require us, to hire additional accounting and financial resources with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge. In addition, failure to maintain such internal controls could result in us being unable to provide timely and reliable financial information which could potentially subject us to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities or cause us to be late in the filing of required reports or financial results. Any of the foregoing events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We have a history of operating losses and may incur losses in the future. For the year ended December 31, 2012, for amounts attributable to the Company, we had a net loss of $6.9 million compared to a net loss of $6.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. We make no assurances that we will be able to operate profitably. As of December 31, 2012, we have a working capital deficit of approximately $5.9 million. We intend to seek to improve our liquidity and profitability in future years by: •refinancing debt where possible to obtain more favorable terms; •increasing facility occupancy and the proportion of sub-acute patients within our skilled nursing facilities; •continuing our cost optimization and efficiency strategies; •acquiring additional long-term care facilities with existing cash flowing operations to expand our operations; and •adding additional management contracts. We believe the foregoing actions, if taken, will provide the opportunity for the Company to improve liquidity and achieve profitability. No assurances are made that such improvements or achievements will occur. Our business requires us to make capital expenditures to maintain and improve our facilities. Our facilities sometimes require capital expenditures to address ongoing required maintenance and to make them attractive to residents. Physical characteristics of senior living facilities and rehabilitation centers are mandated by various governmental authorities; and changes in these regulations may require us to make significant expenditures. In addition, we often are required to make significant capital expenditures when we acquire new facilities in pursuit of our growth strategy. Our available financial resources may be insufficient to fund these expenditures. Our substantial debt could adversely affect our cash flow and impair our ability to raise additional capital. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $171.9 million in indebtedness, including current maturities and discontinued operations. We may also obtain additional short-term and long-term debt to meet future capital needs, including to fund acquisitions, subject to certain restrictions under our existing indebtedness, which would increase our total debt. Our substantial amount of debt could have negative consequences to our business. For example, it could: •increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; 28 Table of Contents •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of cash flows from operations to interest and principal payments on outstanding debt, thereby limiting the availability of cash flow to fund acquisitions, capital expenditures, working capital and other general corporate requirements; •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; •place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors that have less debt; and •limit our ability to borrow additional funds, even when necessary to maintain adequate liquidity. In addition, our ability to borrow funds in the future will depend in part on the satisfaction of the covenants in our credit facilities and other debt agreements. If we are unable to satisfy the financial covenants contained in those agreements, or are unable to generate cash sufficient to make required debt payments, the lenders and other parties to those arrangements could accelerate the maturity of some or all of our outstanding indebtedness. We may not have sufficient liquidity to meet our capital needs. For the year ended and as of December 31, 2012, we had a net loss of $7.5 million and negative working capital of $5.9 million. At December 31, 2012, we had $15.9 million in cash and cash equivalents and $171.9 million in indebtedness, including current maturities and discontinued operations, of which $23.0 million is current debt (including the Company's outstanding convertible promissory notes with a principal amount in the aggregate of $11.7 million which mature in October 2013 and approximately $3.7 million of mortgage notes included in liabilities of disposal group). Based on existing cash balances, anticipated cash flows for the year ending December 31, 2013, and new sources of capital, we believe there will be sufficient funds for our operations, scheduled debt service, and capital expenditures at least through the next 12 months. On a longer term basis, we have approximately $80.4 million of debt payments and maturities due between 2014 and 2016, excluding convertible promissory notes which are convertible into shares of common stock. We believe our long-term liquidity needs will be satisfied by these same sources, as well as borrowings as required to refinance indebtedness. In order to satisfy these capital needs, we intend to: (i) improve our operating results by increasing facility occupancy, optimizing our payor mix by increasing the proportion of sub-acute patients within our skilled nursing facilities, continuing our cost optimization and efficiency strategies and acquiring additional long-term care facilities with existing operating cash flow; (ii) expand our borrowing arrangements with certain existing lenders; (iii) refinance current debt where possible to obtain more favorable terms; and (iv) raise capital through the issuance of debt or equity securities. We anticipate that these actions, if successful, will provide the opportunity for us to maintain liquidity on a short and long term basis, thereby permitting us to meet our operating and financing obligations for the next 12 months and provide for the continuance of our acquisition strategy. However, there is no guarantee that such actions will be successful or that anticipated operating results will be achieved. We currently have limited borrowing availability under our existing revolving credit facilities. If the Company is unable to improve operating results, expand existing borrowing agreements, refinance current debt, or raise capital through the issuance of securities, or the convertible promissory notes due October 2013 are not converted into common stock and are required to be repaid by us in cash, then the Company may be required to restructure its outstanding indebtedness, implement further cost reduction initiatives, sell assets, or delay, modify, or abandon its expansion plans. An increase in market interest rates could increase our interest costs on existing and future debt. We have incurred and expect in the future to incur floating rate indebtedness in connection with our acquisition of new facilities, as well as for other purposes. Accordingly, increases in interest rates 29 Table of Contents would increase the Company's interest costs. These increased costs could make the financing of any acquisition more costly and could limit our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures. We do not currently pay cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate doing so in the future. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We intend to retain any future earnings after payment of dividends on our Series A Preferred Stock to fund our operations and, therefore, we currently do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. In addition, no cash dividends may be declared or paid on our common stock unless full cumulative dividends on our Series A Preferred Stock have been, or contemporaneously are, declared and paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof is set apart for payment, for all past dividend periods. We could be prevented from paying dividends on our Series A Preferred Stock and our common stock. We are a holding company, and we have no significant operations. We rely primarily on dividends and other distributions from our subsidiaries to us so we may, among other things, pay dividends on our stock, if and to the extent declared by the Board of Directors. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends and other distributions to us depends on their earnings and is restricted by the terms of certain agreements governing their indebtedness. If our subsidiaries are in default under such agreements, then they may not pay dividends or other distributions to us. In addition, we may only pay dividends on our stock if we have funds legally available for the payment of dividends and such payment is not restricted or prohibited by law, the terms of any shares with higher priority with respect to dividends or any documents governing our indebtedness. Our loan agreement with KeyBank National Association ("KeyBank") prohibits the payment of dividends on our stock if we fail to comply with certain financial covenants or if a default or event of default under the loan agreement has occurred. As such, we could become unable, on a temporary or permanent basis, to pay dividends on our stock, including our Series A Preferred Stock. In addition, future debt, contractual covenants or arrangements we or our subsidiaries enter into may restrict or prevent future dividend payments. The payment of any future dividends on our stock will be at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend, among other things, the earnings and results of operations of our subsidiaries, their ability to pay dividends and other distributions to AdCare under agreements governing their indebtedness, our financial condition and capital requirements, any debt service requirements and any other factors the Board of Directors deems relevant. The price of our stock, in particular our common stock, has fluctuated, and a number of factors may cause the price of our stock to decline. The market price of our stock has fluctuated and could fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of various factors and events, many of which are beyond our control. These factors may include: •variations in our operating results; •changes in our financial condition, performance and prospects; •changes in general economic and market conditions; •the departure of any of our key executive officers and directors; •announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, or transactions; 30 Table of Contents •press releases or negative publicity relating to us or our competitors or relating to trends in health care; •government action or regulation, including changes in federal, state, and local health-care regulations to which we are subject; •the level and quality of securities analysts' coverage for our stock; •changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts with respect to us or our competitors; and •with respect to our common stock, future sales of our common stock. In addition, the market price of our Series A Preferred Stock will also depend upon: •prevailing interest rates, increases in which may have an adverse effect on the market price of our Series A Preferred Stock; •trading prices of preferred equity securities issued by other companies in the industry; •the annual yield from distributions on our Series A Preferred Stock as compared to yields on other financial instruments; and •our issuance of additional preferred equity or debt securities. Furthermore, the stock market in recent years has experienced sweeping price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies. These market fluctuations may also cause the price of our stock to decline. In the event of fluctuations in the price of our stock, shareholders may be unable to resell shares of our stock at or above the price at which they purchased such shares. Additionally, due to fluctuations in the price of our stock, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on past results as an indication of future performance. Our directors and officers substantially control all major decisions. Our directors and officers beneficially own approximately 22.4% of our outstanding common stock. Therefore, our directors and officers will be able to influence major corporate actions required to be voted on by shareholders, such as the election of directors, the amendment of our charter documents and the approval of significant corporate transactions such as mergers, reorganizations, sales of substantially all of our assets and liquidation. Furthermore, our directors will be able to make decisions affecting our capital structure, including decisions to issue additional capital stock, implement stock repurchase programs and incur indebtedness. This control may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers, delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in management, or limiting the ability of our other shareholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interest. No assurance is made that Brogdon Family, LLC will commence a tender offer for the common stock or that, if commenced, such tender offer will be completed on terms acceptable to our shareholders or at all. On April 17, 2013, Brogdon Family, LLC ("Brogdon Family"), an affiliate of Christopher Brogdon, our Vice Chairman and beneficial owner of greater than 10% of the common stock, informed the Board of Directors of Brogdon Family's interest in commencing an unsolicited tender offer to acquire, at a price of $8.00 per share, such number of shares of common stock that would result in Mr. Brogdon beneficially owning at least 55%, but no more than 75%, of the outstanding shares of common stock (the "Tender Offer"). Brogdon Family also informed the Board of Directors, or otherwise disclosed, that the Tender Offer will be subject to certain conditions, including, but not limited to: (i) the valid tender of shares of common stock totaling at least 55% of the issued and 31 Table of Contents outstanding common stock when added to the shares of common stock held by Brogdon Family and its affiliates; (ii) the absence of litigation regarding the Tender Offer; (iii) the absence of any governmental order being entered enjoining the Tender Offer (and that such order is not anticipated being entered); (iv) the receipt of any required governmental approvals; and (v) Brogdon Family obtaining appropriate financing. We do not control if or when Brogdon Family commences the Tender Offer or, if commenced, the ultimate terms of the Tender Offer, including the price offered for the common stock. No assurance is made that Brogdon Family will commence the Tender Offer or that, if commenced, it will be completed on terms acceptable to our shareholders or at all. If and when the Tender Offer is commenced, then, consistent with its fiduciary duties and as required by applicable law, the Board of Directors, in consultation with our independent financial and legal advisors (a) will review the Tender Offer to determine the course of action that it believes is in the best interests of us and our shareholders and (b) will advise shareholders of its formal position regarding the Tender Offer within ten business days after its commencement by making available to our shareholders and filing with the SEC a solicitation/recommendation statement on Schedule 14D-9. If the Tender Offer is commenced, then we will file a solicitation/recommendation statement with the SEC. INVESTORS AND ALL OF OUR SECURITY HOLDERS ARE URGED TO READ SUCH STATEMENT AND ANY OTHER DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC CAREFULLY IN THEIR ENTIRETY WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION. INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS WILL BE ABLE TO OBTAIN FREE COPIES OF THESE DOCUMENTS (WHEN AVAILABLE) AND OTHER DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC BY US THROUGH THE WEBSITE MAINTAINED BY THE SEC AT http://www.sec.gov. Takeover defense provisions in Ohio law and our charter documents may delay or prevent takeover attempts thereby preventing our shareholders from realizing a premium on their common stock. Various provisions of Ohio corporation law and of our charter documents may inhibit changes in control not approved by our Board of Directors and may have the effect of depriving our investors of an opportunity to receive a premium over the prevailing market price of our common stock in the event of an attempted hostile takeover. In addition, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. These provisions include: •a requirement that special meetings of shareholders be called by our Board of Directors, the Chairman, the President, or the holders of shares with voting power of at least 25%; •staggered terms among our directors with three classes of directors and only one class to be elected each year; •advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals and nominations; and •availability of "blank check" preferred stock. Our Board of Directors can use these and other provisions to prevent, delay or discourage a change in control of the Company or a change in our management. Any such delay or prevention of a change in control or management could deter potential acquirers or prevent the completion of a takeover transaction pursuant to which our shareholders could receive a substantial premium over the current market price of our common stock, which in turn may limit the price investors might be willing to pay for our common stock. 32 Table of Contents Provisions in our charter documents provide for indemnification of officers and directors, which could require us to direct funds away from our business and future operations. Our charter documents provide for the indemnification of our officers and directors. We may be required to advance costs incurred by an officer or director and to pay judgments, fines and expenses incurred by an officer or director, including reasonable attorneys' fees, as a result of actions or proceedings in which our officers and directors are involved by reason of being or having been an officer or director of our Company. Funds paid in satisfaction of judgments, fines and expenses may be funds we need for the operation and growth of our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Disclosure pursuant to Item 1B of Form 10-K is not required to be provided by smaller reporting companies. 