Item 1A. Risk Factors The nationwide recession and difficult market conditions have adversely affected the industry. The Bank is exposed to general economic conditions and downturns in the U.S. housing market. Dramatic declines in the national housing market in recent years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities, major commercial and investment banks, and regional and community financial institutions such as the Company. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of 31 Table of Contents commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The continuing economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on the Company and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, the Company may face the following risks in connection with these events: • The Company’s stock price could be negatively impacted by these events and could remain under pressure until a market recovery is under way. • Increased regulation of the industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase costs and limit the Company’s ability to pursue business opportunities. • The process used to estimate losses inherent in the Company’s credit exposure requires subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might impair the ability of borrowers to repay their loans. A continued deterioration in economic conditions may adversely affect future earnings. • Increased levels of nonperforming loans and loan losses may negatively impact earnings. • The Company may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC deposit insurance premiums because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. • A further deterioration in consumer confidence in financial institutions which could lead to declines in deposit totals and impact liquidity. A continuation or worsening of current financial market or economic conditions could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of the Company’s common stock. A continued downturn in the local economy or in local real estate values could hurt profits. Most of the Bank’s loans are secured by real estate or are made to businesses in Ocean and Monmouth Counties, New Jersey and the surrounding area. As a result of this concentration, a downturn in the local economy could cause significant increases in nonperforming loans, which could hurt profits. Prior to 2007 there was a significant increase in real estate values in the Bank’s market area. Since that time, there has been a weakening in the local economy with rising unemployment coupled with declining real estate values and increases in non-performing mortgage loans, particularly residential loans. Based upon sales data for 2011 from the Ocean and Monmouth Counties Multiple Listing Service, home values in the Company’s primary market area have declined by approximately 19% from the peak of the market in 2006. A further decline in real estate values could cause additional residential and commercial mortgage loans to become inadequately collateralized, which could expose the Bank to a greater risk of loss. Changes in interest rates or a prolonged period of low interest rates could adversely affect results of operations and financial condition. The Bank’s ability to make a profit largely depends on net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. The interest income earned on interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities are generally fixed for a contractual period of time. Interest-bearing liabilities generally have shorter contractual maturities than interest-earning assets. This imbalance can create significant earnings volatility, because market interest rates change over time. In a period of rising interest rates, the interest income earned on interest-earning assets may not increase as rapidly as the interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. In addition, changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and mortgage-backed securities. A reduction in interest rates causes increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed securities as borrowers refinance their debt to reduce their borrowing costs. This creates reinvestment risk, which is the risk that the Bank may not be able to reinvest the funds from faster prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates earned on the prepaid loans or securities. Conversely, an increase in interest rates generally reduces prepayments. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable-rate loans. Changes in interest rates also affect the current market value of the interest-earning securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. Unrealized net losses on securities available for sale are reported as a separate component of equity. To the extent interest rates increase and the value of the available for sale portfolio decreases, stockholders’ equity will be adversely affected. 32 Table of Contents In January 2012 the Federal Reserve Open Market Committee announced their expectation to maintain short-term interest rates at low levels through mid 2014. The continuation of the current low interest rate environment will likely adversely affect the Company’s net interest margin and net interest income for 2012. The Company and the Bank operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. The Company is subject to examination and regulation by the FRB. The Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC, its primary federal regulator, and by the FDIC, as insurer of deposits. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on operations, the classification of assets and determination of the level of the allowance for loan losses. The purpose of the laws and regulations that govern the Company and the Bank’s operations are designed for the protection of depositors and the public, but not the Company’s stockholders. In July of 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was enacted. The Dodd-Frank Act is a broad legislative initiative that will significantly change the current bank regulatory structure and affect the operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. Under the Dodd-Frank Act the OTS, which had been the primary federal regulator for the Company and the Bank, ceased to exist in July of 2011. At that time the OCC, which is the primary federal regulator for national banks, became the primary federal regulator for federal thrifts such as the Bank. The FRB now supervises and regulates all savings and loan holding companies that were formerly regulated by the OTS, including the Company. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act creates the CFPB with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The CFPB has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Dodd-Frank Act also directed the FRB to issue rules to limit debit-card interchange fees, (the fees that issuing banks charge merchants each time a consumer uses a debit card) collected by banks with assets of $10 billion or more. On June 29, 2011, the FRB issued a final rule which would cap an issuer’s debit-card interchange base fee at twenty-one cents ($0.21) per transaction and allow an additional 5 basis point charge per transaction to cover fraud losses. The FRB also issued an interim final rule that allows a fraud-prevention adjustment of one cent ($0.01) per transaction conditioned upon an issuer adopting effective fraud prevention policies and procedures. The Bank’s average interchange fee per transaction is forty cents ($0.40). The Dodd-Frank Act exempts from the FRB’s rule banks with assets less than $10 billion, such as the Bank. Although exempt from this rule, market forces may result in reduced fees charged by all issuers, regardless of asset size, which may result in reduced revenues for the Bank. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the Bank’s revenues from interchange fees were $2.0 million, as compared to $1.8 million in 2010. The rules were effective October 1, 2011. Also, effective July 21, 2011 is a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act that eliminates the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest-bearing checking accounts. It is difficult to predict at this time what specific impact the Dodd-Frank Act, the yet to be adopted implementing rules and regulations, the change in the Company’s and the Bank’s regulators, or any other changes or law or regulation, will have on the Company and the Bank. However, it is expected that at a minimum they will increase the Company’s operating and compliance costs and could also increase interest expense and decrease revenue. The recently publicized foreclosure issues affecting the nation’s largest mortgage loan servicers could impact the Bank’s foreclosure process. Several of the nation’s largest mortgage loan servicers have experienced highly publicized issues with respect to their foreclosure processes. As a result, some of these servicers have experienced moratoriums on their foreclosures and have been the subject of state attorney general scrutiny and consumer lawsuits, although the largest mortgage loan servicers have recently reached a settlement with the states. In light of these issues, the Bank has reviewed its foreclosure policies and procedures and has not found it necessary to interrupt any foreclosures. Over the past few years, foreclosure timelines have increased significantly due to, among other reasons, delays associated with the significant increase in the number of foreclosure cases. These delays were the result of the economic crisis, additional consumer protection initiatives related to the foreclosure process, increased documentary requirements and judicial scrutiny, and, both voluntary and mandatory programs under which lenders may consider loan modifications or other alternatives to foreclosure. These issues and the potential legal and regulatory responses could impact the foreclosure process and timing to completion of foreclosures for residential mortgage lenders, including the Bank, which might result in a material adverse effect on collateral values and the Bank’s ability to minimize its losses. 33 Table of Contents Continued capital and credit market volatility may adversely affect the Company’s ability to access capital and may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption in recent years. The markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that the Company will not experience an adverse effect on its ability to access capital, which might result in a material adverse effect upon the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in the fair value of securities may reduce stockholder’s equity and net income. At December 31, 2011, the Company maintained a securities portfolio of $530.2 million all of which was classified as available for sale. The estimated fair value of the available for sale securities portfolio may increase or decrease depending on the credit quality of the underlying issuer, market liquidity, changes in interest rates and other factors. Stockholder’s equity is increased or decreased by the amount of the change in the unrealized gain or loss (difference between the estimated fair value and the amortized cost) of the available for sale securities portfolio, net of the related tax expense or benefit, under the category of accumulated other comprehensive income/loss. Therefore, a decline in the estimated fair value of this portfolio will result in a decline in reported stockholder’s equity, as well as book value per common share. The decrease will occur even though the securities are not sold. The Company conducts a periodic review and evaluation of the securities portfolio to determine if the decline in the fair value of any security below its cost basis is other-than-temporary. Factors which are considered in the analysis include, but are not limited to, the severity and duration of the decline in fair value of the security, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, whether the decline appears to be related to issuer conditions or general market or industry conditions, the intent and ability to retain the security for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value and the likelihood of any near-term fair value recovery. If such decline is deemed to be other-than-temporary, the security is written down to a new cost basis and the resulting loss is charged to earnings as a component of non-interest income. At December 31, 2011, the securities available for sale portfolio included corporate debt securities issued by national and regional banks. The portfolio consisted of eleven $5.0 million issues spread among eight issuers. At December 31, 2011, the securities had a book value of $55.0 million and an estimated fair value of $39.4 million. The Company may be required to recognize an other-than-temporary impairment charge related to these securities if circumstances change. Increased emphasis on commercial lending, or the Bank’s offering of alternative credit products, may expose the Bank to increased lending risks. At December 31, 2011, $506.6 million, or 31.9%, of the Bank’s total loans consisted of commercial real estate, multi-family and land loans, and commercial business loans. This portfolio has grown in recent years and the Bank intends to continue to emphasize these types of lending. These types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one-to-four family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the borrowers. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one-to-four family residential mortgage loans. Also, many of the Bank’s commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose the Bank to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one-to-four family residential mortgage loan. In addition, even within its residential loan portfolio, the Bank offers several alternative credit products, including one-to-four family loans with interest-only payment requirements for the first five, seven or ten years of the mortgage loan term. As a result, borrowers will face substantial increases in loan payment amounts as these loans begin to amortize. These loans expose the Bank to greater risk than traditional, fully amortizing one-to-four family residential mortgage loans. The Company’s allowance for loan losses may be inadequate, which could hurt the Company’s earnings. The Company’s allowance for loan losses may prove to be inadequate to cover actual loan losses and if the Company is required to increase its allowance, current earnings may be reduced. When borrowers default and do not repay the loans that the Bank makes to them, the Company may lose money. The Company’s experience shows that some borrowers either will not pay on time or will not pay at all, which will require the Company to cancel or “charge-off” the defaulted loan or loans. The Company provides for losses by reserving what it believes to be an adequate amount to absorb any probable incurred losses. A “charge-off” reduces the Company’s reserve for possible loan losses. If the Company’s reserves were insufficient, it would be required to record a larger reserve, which would reduce earnings for that period. The Bank or Columbia may be required to repurchase mortgage loans for a breach of representations and warranties, which could harm the Company’s earnings. The Bank and Columbia each entered into loan sale agreements with investors in the normal course of business. The loan sale agreements generally required the repurchase of certain loans previously sold in the 34 Table of Contents event of a violation of various representations and warranties customary to the mortgage banking industry. Repurchase demands accelerated industry-wide in recent years. Additionally, FNMA, FHLMC and investors carefully examine loan documentation with the goal of increasing the amount of repurchases by the loan originator. The repurchased mortgage loans could typically only be resold at a significant discount to the unpaid principal balance. The Company maintains a reserve for repurchased loans, however, if repurchase activity is significant, the reserve may need to be increased to cover actual losses which could harm future earnings. The Company’s mortgage servicing rights may become impaired which could hurt profits. Mortgage servicing rights are carried at the lower of cost or fair value. Any impairment is recognized as a reduction to servicing fee income. In the event that loan prepayments continue to increase due to increased loan refinancing, the fair value of mortgage servicing rights would likely decline. The Company’s inability to achieve profitability on new branches may negatively affect earnings. The Bank has expanded its presence within the market area through de novo branching and continually evaluates opportunities for new branches. The profitability of this expansion strategy will depend on whether the income from the new branches will offset the increased expenses resulting from operating these branches. It is expected to take a period of time before these branches or any branches to open can become profitable. During this period, the expense of operating these branches may negatively affect net income. Competition from other banks and financial institutions in originating loans, attracting deposits and providing various financial services may adversely affect profitability and liquidity. The Company has substantial competition in originating loans, both commercial and consumer, in its market area. This competition comes principally from other banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking companies and other lenders. Many of these competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources and access to capital, stronger regulatory ratios and higher lending limits, a wider geographic presence, more accessible branch office locations, the ability to offer a wider array of services or more favorable pricing alternatives, as well as lower origination and operating costs. This competition could reduce the Company’s net income by decreasing the number and size of loans that the Bank originates and the interest rates charged on these loans. In attracting business and consumer deposits, the Company faces substantial competition from other insured depository institutions such as banks, savings institutions and credit unions, as well as institutions offering uninsured investment alternatives, including money market funds. Many of its competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources and access to capital, stronger regulatory ratios, stronger asset quality and performance, more aggressive marketing campaigns, better brand recognition and more branch locations. These competitors may offer higher interest rates than the Company, which could decrease the deposits that the Company attracts or require the Company to increase its rates to retain existing deposits or attract new deposits. Increased deposit competition could materially adversely affect the Company’s ability to generate the funds necessary for lending operations. As a result, the Company may need to seek other sources of funds that may be more expensive to obtain which could increase the cost of funds. The Company must continue to attract and retain qualified personnel and maintain cost controls and asset quality. The Company’s ability to manage growth successfully will depend on its ability to continue to attract and retain management experienced in banking and financial services and familiar with the communities in its market area. As the Company grows, the Company must be able to attract and retain qualified additional management and loan officers with the appropriate level of experience and knowledge about local market areas to implement the Company’s operating strategy. The unexpected loss of service of any key management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could adversely affect the Company. If the Company grows too quickly and is not able to attract qualified personnel and maintain cost controls and asset quality, this continued growth could adversely affect the Company. 35 Table of Contents The Bank’s ability to originate mortgage loans for portfolio has been adversely affected by the increased competition resulting from the unprecedented involvement of the U.S. government and GSEs in the residential mortgage market. Over the past few years, the Bank has faced increased competition for mortgage loans due to the unprecedented involvement of the GSEs in the mortgage market as a result of the recent economic crisis, which has caused the interest rate for thirty-year fixed-rate mortgage loans that conform to GSE guidelines to remain artificially low The Bank expects that one-to-four family mortgage loan prepayments will remain at elevated levels and will continue to outpace the production of loans to be held for portfolio. As a result of these factors, it may be difficult for the Bank to grow the residential mortgage loan portfolio, which could have a materially adverse impact on the Bank’s earnings. On February 11, 2011, the Administration released its report on restructuring FNMA and FHLMC and on further reforming the mortgage and securitization markets. The report details the Administration’s intent to “wind down FNMA and FHLMC and shrink the government’s current footprint in housing finance.” Specifically, the proposal will increase GSE pricing, reduce conforming loan limits by allowing temporary higher limits to reset downward as of October 1, 2011, phase in a minimum 10% down payment requirement for borrowers, and shrink the GSE’s investment portfolio at a rate of not less than 10% per year. It is unsure at this time whether the Administration’s proposal, or any other proposed reform, affecting the GSEs will be enacted, and if so, the final form and impact on the Bank. There is no guaranty that the Company will be able to continue to pay a dividend or, if continued, will be able to pay a dividend at the current rate. The Board of Directors of the Company determines at its discretion if, when and the amount of dividends that may be paid on the common stock. In making such determination, the Board of Directors takes into account various factors including economic conditions, earnings, liquidity needs, the financial condition of the Company, applicable state law, regulatory requirements and other factors deemed relevant by the Board of Directors. Although the Company has a history of paying a quarterly dividend on its common stock, there is no guaranty that such dividends will continue to be paid in the future, particularly in the event of changes in those factors which may affect the Board of Directors’ determination to pay a dividend. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 