Item 1A. Risk Factors Difficult market conditions have adversely affected the industry. The Bank is exposed to downturns in the U.S. housing market. Dramatic declines in the national housing market over the past two years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities, major commercial and investment banks, and regional and community financial institutions such as the Company. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The continuing economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The difficult conditions in the financial markets are not likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on the Company and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, the Company may face the following risks in connection with these events: • The Company’s stock price could be negatively impacted by these events and could remain under pressure until a market recovery is under way. 34 Table of Contents • Increased regulation of the industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase costs and limit the Company’s ability to pursue business opportunities. • The process used to estimate losses inherent in the Company’s credit exposure requires subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might impair the ability of borrowers to repay their loans. The level of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect the accuracy of estimates which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the financial statements. • Increased levels of nonperforming loans and loan losses may negatively impact earnings. • The Company may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC deposit premiums because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. • Consumer confidence in financial institutions is deteriorating, which could lead to declines in deposit totals and impact liquidity. A continued downturn in the local economy or in real estate values could hurt profits. Most of the Bank’s loans are secured by real estate or are made to businesses in Ocean and Monmouth Counties, New Jersey and the surrounding area. As a result of this concentration, a downturn in the local economy could cause significant increases in nonperforming loans, which would hurt profits. Prior to 2008 there was a significant increase in real estate values in the Bank’s market area. During 2008 and 2009, there has been a weakening in the local economy coupled with declining real estate values. A further decline in real estate values could cause some residential and commercial mortgage loans to become inadequately collateralized, which would expose the Bank to a greater risk of loss. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect results of operations and financial condition. The Bank’s ability to make a profit largely depends on net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. The interest income earned on interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities are generally fixed for a contractual period of time. Interest-bearing liabilities generally have shorter contractual maturities than interest-earning assets. This imbalance can create significant earnings volatility, because market interest rates change over time. In a period of rising interest rates, the interest income earned on interest-earning assets may not increase as rapidly as the interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. In addition, changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and mortgage-backed securities. A reduction in interest rates causes increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed securities as borrowers refinance their debt to reduce their borrowing costs. This creates reinvestment risk, which is the risk that the Bank may not be able to reinvest the funds from faster prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates earned on the prepaid loans or securities. Conversely, an increase in interest rates generally reduces prepayments. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable-rate loans. Changes in interest rates also affect the current market value of the interest-earning securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. Unrealized net losses on securities available for sale are reported as a separate component of equity. To the extent interest rates increase and the value of the available for sale portfolio decreases, stockholders’ equity will be adversely affected. Continued capital and credit market volatility may adversely affect the Company’s ability to access capital and may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than two years. The markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of 35 Table of Contents market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that the Company will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on the Company’s continued ability to access capital. Additionally, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Changes in the fair value of securities may reduce stockholder’s equity and net income. At December 31, 2009, the Company maintained a securities portfolio of $250.9 million all of which was classified as available for sale. The estimated fair value of the available for sale securities portfolio may increase or decrease depending on the credit quality of the underlying issuer, market liquidity, changes in interest rates and other factors. Stockholder’s equity is increased or decreased by the amount of the change in the unrealized gain or loss (difference between the estimated fair value and the amortized cost) of the available for sale securities portfolio, net of the related tax expense or benefit, under the category of accumulated other comprehensive income/loss. Therefore, a decline in the estimated fair value of this portfolio will result in a decline in reported stockholder’s equity, as well as book value per common share. The decrease will occur even though the securities are not sold. The Company conducts a periodic review and evaluation of the securities portfolio to determine if the decline in the fair value of any security below its cost basis is other-than-temporary. Factors which are considered in the analysis include, but are not limited to, the severity and duration of the decline in fair value of the security, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, whether the decline appears to be related to issuer conditions or general market or industry conditions, the intent and ability to retain the security for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value and the likelihood of any near-term fair value recovery. If such decline is deemed to be other-than-temporary, the security is written down to a new cost basis and the resulting loss is charged to earnings as a component of non-interest income. At December 31, 2009, the securities available for sale portfolio included corporate debt securities issued by national and regional banks. The portfolio consisted of eleven $5,000,000 issues spread among eight issuers. At December 31, 2009, the securities had a book value of $55.0 million and an estimated fair value of $36.4 million. The Company may be required to recognize an other-than-temporary impairment charge related to these securities if circumstances change. The Company owns stock of the FHLB-NY. The aggregate cost and fair value of the FHLB-NY common stock as of December 31, 2009 was $19.4 million based on its par value. There is no market for the FHLB-NY common stock. The banks within the Federal Home Bank System may be subject to accounting rules and asset quality risks that could result in materially lower regulatory capital levels. In an extreme situation, it is possible that the capitalization of a Federal Home Loan Bank, including the FHLB-NY, could be substantially diminished or reduced to zero. Consequently, there is a risk that the Company’s investment in FHLB-NY common stock could be deemed other-than-temporarily impaired at some time in the future, and if this occurs, it would cause earnings and stockholders’ equity to decrease by the after-tax amount of the impairment charge. Increased emphasis on commercial lending may expose the Bank to increased lending risks. At December 31, 2009, $467.1 million, or 28.3%, of the Bank’s total loans consisted of commercial, multi-family and land real estate loans, and commercial business loans. This portfolio has grown in recent years and the Bank intends to continue to emphasize these types of lending. These types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one-to-four family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the borrowers. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one-to-four family residential mortgage loans. Also, many of the Bank’s commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose the Bank to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one-to-four family residential mortgage loan. 36 Table of Contents The Company’s allowance for loan losses may be inadequate, which could hurt the Company’s earnings. The Company’s allowance for loan losses may prove to be inadequate to cover actual loan losses and if the Company is required to increase its allowance, current earnings may be reduced. When borrowers default and do not repay the loans that the Bank makes to them, the Company may lose money. The Company’s experience shows that some borrowers either will not pay on time or will not pay at all, which will require the Company to cancel or “charge-off” the defaulted loan or loans. The Company provides for losses by reserving what it believes to be an adequate amount to absorb any probable inherent losses. A “charge-off” reduces the Company’s reserve for possible loan losses. If the Company’s reserves were insufficient, it would be required to record a larger reserve, which would reduce earnings for that period. The Bank or Columbia may be required to repurchase mortgage loans for a breach of representations and warranties, which could harm the Company’s earnings. The Bank and Columbia each entered into loan sale agreements with investors in the normal course of business. The loan sale agreements generally required the repurchase of certain loans previously sold in the event of a violation of various representations and warranties customary to the mortgage banking industry. Recently, repurchase demands have accelerated industry wide. Additionally, both FNMA and FHLMC have begun to carefully examine loan documentation with a goal of increasing the amount of repurchases by the loan originator. The repurchased mortgage loans could typically only be resold at a significant discount to the unpaid principal balance. The Company maintains a reserve for repurchased loans, however, if repurchase activity is significant, the reserve may prove to be inadequate to cover actual losses which could harm future earnings. In September 2007, all loan origination activity at Columbia was discontinued. A portion of Columbia’s loan production consisted of “subprime” loans, which are loans made to individuals whose borrowing needs are generally not fulfilled by traditional loan products because they do not satisfy the credit documentation or other underwriting standards prescribed by conventional mortgage lenders and loan buyers. In March 2007, Columbia discontinued the origination of sub-prime loans. In the event a significant amount of subprime loans originated by Columbia are required to be repurchased, the Company may be required to hold such loans in portfolio for an extended period of time or to maturity, if such loans cannot be later resold. Subprime loans generally have a higher incidence of delinquency, foreclosure and bankruptcy, which may be substantially higher than that experienced by mortgage loans underwritten in a more traditional manner. Such risk associated with subprime loans may be increased during periods of economic slow-downs, increasing interest rates, and events that affect specifically the geographic areas in which the loans are made. Moreover, as many of the subprime loans made by Columbia have loan-to-value ratios of 100%, there would be little, if any, equity to fully recover the net carrying value of the loan in the event of default and foreclosure. In such event, the Company may be required to substantially increase its allowance for loan losses which would reduce earnings for that period. Settlement agreements on loans originated by Columbia have been entered into with some investors which may limit the obligation to repurchase mortgage loans for a breach of a representation or warranty. The Company’s mortgage servicing rights may become impaired which could hurt profits. Mortgage servicing rights are carried at the lower of cost or fair value. Any impairment is recognized as a reduction to servicing fee income. In the event that loan prepayments increase due to increased loan refinancing, the fair value of mortgage servicing rights would likely decline. The Company’s inability to achieve profitability on new branches may negatively affect earnings. The Bank has continued to expand its presence within the market area through de novo branching. The profitability of this expansion strategy will depend on whether the income from the new branches will offset the increased expenses resulting from operating these branches. It is expected to take a period of time before these branches can become profitable. During this period, the expense of operating these branches may negatively affect net income. 37 Table of Contents Legislation and other measures undertaken by the Treasury, the Federal Reserve and other governmental agencies may not help stabilize the U.S. financial system or improve the housing market. On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (“EESA”), which, among other measures, authorized the Treasury Secretary to establish the TARP. EESA gives broad authority to Treasury to purchase, manage, modify, sell and insure the troubled mortgage related assets that triggered the current economic crisis as well as other “troubled assets.” EESA includes additional provisions directed at bolstering the economy, including: • Authority for the Federal Reserve to pay interest on depository institution balances; • Mortgage loss mitigation and homeowner protection; • Temporary increase in Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance coverage from $100,000 to $250,000 through December 31, 2009 (subsequently extended to December 31, 2013); and • Authority to the Securities and Exchange Commission to suspend mark-to-market accounting requirements for any issuer or class of category of transactions. Pursuant to the TARP, the Treasury has the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. Under the TARP, the Treasury has created the Capital Purchase Program, pursuant to which it is providing access to capital to financial institutions through a standardized program to acquire preferred stock (accompanied by warrants) from eligible financial institutions that will serve as Tier 1 capital. EESA also contains a number of significant employee benefit and executive compensation provisions, some of which apply to employee benefit plans generally, and others which impose on financial institutions that participate in the TARP program restrictions on executive compensation. On February 17, 2009, President Obama signed into law the ARRA which, among other things, amended the executive compensation restrictions of EESA. See “Regulation and Supervision – Capital Purchase Program” for a discussion of the additional restrictions imposed on executive compensation from EESA and ARRA. Numerous actions, in addition to the EESA, have been taken by the Federal Reserve, Congress, Treasury, the SEC and others to address the liquidity and credit crisis that has followed the sub-prime meltdown that commenced in 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourage loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. In addition, the Internal Revenue Service has issued an unprecedented wave of guidance in response to the credit crisis, including a relaxation of limits on the ability of financial institutions that undergo an “ownership change” to utilize their pre-change net operating losses and net unrealized built-in losses. The relaxation of these limits may make it significantly more attractive to acquire financial institutions whose tax basis in their loan portfolios significantly exceeds the fair market value of those portfolios. On October 14, 2008, the FDIC announced the establishment of a Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program to provide insurance for all non-interest bearing transaction accounts and guarantees of certain newly issued senior unsecured debt issued by financial institutions (such as the Bank), bank holding companies and savings and loan holding companies (such as the Company). Financial institutions were automatically covered by this program for the 30-day period commencing October 14, 2008 and continue to be covered as long as they did not affirmatively opt out of the program. Under the program, senior unsecured debt issued on or before October 31, 2009 (with an extension to April 30, 2010 for certain companies with the approval of the FDIC) will be insured until December 31, 2012 in the event the issuing institution subsequently fails, or its holding company files for bankruptcy. The debt includes all newly issued unsecured senior debt (e.g., promissory notes, commercial paper and inter-bank 38 Table of Contents funding). The aggregate coverage for an institution may not exceed 125% of its debt outstanding on December 31, 2008 that was scheduled to mature before June 30, 2009. The guarantee will extend to June 30, 2012 even if the maturity of the debt is after that date. The Company did not opt out of the program and therefore is covered by these provisions. The actual impact that EESA, ARRA and the President’s Homeowner Affordability and Stability Plan, undertaken to alleviate the credit crisis, will have generally on the financial markets is unknown. The failure of such measures to help stabilize the financial markets and a worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of the Company’s common stock. The Bank operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. The Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OTS and by the FDIC, as insurer of deposits. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and depositors. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on operations, the classification of assets and determination of the level of the allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on operations. Competition from other banks and financial institutions in originating loans, attracting deposits and providing various financial services may adversely affect profitability and liquidity. The Company has substantial competition in originating loans, both commercial and consumer in its market area. This competition comes principally from other banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking companies and other lenders. Many of these competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources and access to capital, stronger regulatory ratios and higher lending limits, a wider geographic presence, more accessible branch office locations, the ability to offer a wider array of services or more favorable pricing alternatives, as well as lower origination and operating costs. This competition could reduce the Company’s net income by decreasing the number and size of loans that the Bank originates and the interest rates charged on these loans. In attracting business and consumer deposits, the Company faces substantial competition from other insured depository institutions such as banks, savings institutions and credit unions, as well as institutions offering uninsured investment alternatives, including money market funds. Many of its competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources and access to capital, stronger regulatory ratios, stronger asset quality and performance, more aggressive marketing campaigns, better branch recognition and more branch locations. These competitors may offer higher interest rates than the Company, which could decrease the deposits that the Company attracts or require the Company to increase its rates to retain existing deposits or attract new deposits. Increased deposit competition could materially adversely affect the Company’s ability to generate the funds necessary for lending operations. As a result, the Company may need to seek other sources of funds that may be more expensive to obtain which could increase the cost of funds. The Company must continue to attract and retain qualified personnel and maintain cost controls and asset quality. The Company’s ability to manage growth successfully will depend on its ability to continue to attract and retain management experienced in banking and financial services and familiar with the communities in its market area. As the Company grows, the Company must be able to attract and retain qualified additional management and loan officers with the appropriate level of experience and knowledge about local market areas to implement the Company’s operating strategy. The unexpected loss of service of any key management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could adversely affect the Company. If the Company grows too quickly and is not able to attract qualified personnel and maintain cost controls and asset quality, this continued growth could adversely affect the Company. 39 Table of Contents The Bank’s Federal thrift charter may be eliminated under the Administration’s Financial Regulatory Reform Plan. The administration has proposed the creation of a new Federal government agency, the National Bank Supervisor (“NBS”) that would charter and supervise all federally chartered depository institutions, and all Federal branches and agencies of foreign banks. It is proposed that the NBS take over the responsibilities of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which currently charters and supervises nationally chartered banks, and the responsibility for the institutions currently supervised by the OTS, which supervises Federally chartered thrift and thrift holding companies, such as the Bank and the Company. In addition, under the administration’s proposal, the thrift charter, under which the Bank is organized, would be eliminated. If the administration’s proposal is finalized, the Bank may be subject to a new charter mandated by the NBS. There is no assurance as to how this new charter, or the supervision by the NBS, will affect the Bank’s operations going forward. The elimination of the OTS, as proposed by the administration, also would result in a new regulatory authority for the Company. Such authority may impose restrictions which are the same as, or similar to, those made applicable to bank holding companies by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, including a holding company consolidated capital requirement and holding company capital maintenance requirement, as well as the Federal Reserve’s requirement that the holding company serve as a “source of strength” for the subsidiary bank. Currently, as a savings and loan holding company supervised by the OTS, the Company is not subject to a holding company consolidated capital requirement. The Company expects that if it were to become subject to a consolidated capital requirement, it would meet the current requirement to be categorized as “well-capitalized” on a pro forma basis. The administration’s proposal also includes the creation of a new Federal agency designed to enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Agency (“CFPA”) would have authority to protect consumers of financial products and services and to regulate all providers (bank and non-bank) of such services. The CFPA would be authorized to adopt rules for all providers of consumer financial services, supervise and examine such institutions for compliance and enforce compliance through orders, fines and penalties. The rules of the CFPA would serve as a “floor” and individual states would be permitted to adopt and enforce stronger consumer protection laws. A recent amendment to the legislation adopted by House Financial Services Committee would exempt all banks with less than $10 billion in total assets from enforcement of consumer protection laws by the CFPA. Instead such laws would continue to be enforced by the appropriate Federal banking regulator. If adopted as proposed, the Company could become subject to multiple laws affecting its provision of home loans and other credit services to consumers, which may substantially increase the cost of providing such services. It is unknown at this time whether the administration’s proposal for regulatory reform will be adopted and, if so, the final form of such proposal, and what the full impact on the Company may be. There is no guaranty that the Company will be able to continue to pay a dividend or, if continued, will be able to pay a dividend at the current rate. The Board of Directors of the Company determines at its discretion if, when and the amount of dividends that may be paid on the common stock. In making such determination, the Board of Directors take into account various factors including economic conditions, earnings, liquidity needs, the financial condition of the Company, applicable state law, regulatory requirements and other factors deemed relevant by the Board of Directors. Although the Company has a history of paying a quarterly dividend on its common stock, there is no guaranty that such dividends will continue to be paid in the future, particularly in the event of changes in those factors which may affect the Board of Directors’ determination to pay a dividend. Deposit insurance assessments have increased substantially, which will adversely affect profits. Federal law requires that the designated reserve ratio for the deposit insurance fund be established by the FDIC at 1.15% to 1.50% of estimated insured deposits. If this reserve ratio drops below 1.15% or the FDIC expects that it will do so within six months, the FDIC must, within 90 days, establish and implement a plan to restore the designated reserve ratio to 1.15% of estimated insured deposits within eight years (absent extraordinary circumstances). 40 Table of Contents Continued bank failures coupled with unsettled economic conditions have significantly reduced the deposit insurance fund’s reserve ratio. As a result of this reduced reserve ratio, on December 22, 2008, the FDIC published a final rule raising the current deposit insurance assessment rates uniformly for all institutions by seven basis points (a range from 12 to 50 basis points) for the first quarter of 2009. On February 27, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule under which banks in the best risk category will pay initial base rates ranging from 12 to 16 cents per $100 on an annual basis, beginning April 1, 2009. The FDIC also adopted an interim rule imposing a 10 basis point emergency special assessment on the industry on June 30, 2009. The assessment was collected on September 30, 2009. The Company recorded an expense of $869,000 for the year ended December 31, 2009 to reflect the special assessment. The interim rule would also permit the FDIC to impose an emergency special assessment after June 30, 2009, of up to 10 basis points if necessary to maintain public confidence in federal deposit insurance. These actions significantly increased the Company’s non-interest expense in 2009. On September 29, 2009 the FDIC announced that it had adopted a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“NPR”) that would require insured institutions to prepay their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. The prepayment of assessments would ensure that the deposit insurance system remains directly funded by depository institutions and preserves the FDIC’s ability to borrow from the Treasury for emergency situations. The prepayment of $7.4 million was collected on December 30, 2009 and was recorded as a prepaid expense on the Company’s statement of financial condition. There can be no assurance that the actions of the FDIC will restore the insurance fund balance to the required reserve ratio of 1.15%, or that the FDIC will not be required to take further actions that may have a negative affect on the Company’s earnings or financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 