Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the following risks, along with the other information contained in this Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that may affect us. Additional risks and uncertainties also may adversely affect our business and operations including those discussed in Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis. If any of the following events actually occur, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. Economic conditions and instability in the financial markets could negatively impact our business. Our operations are affected by local, national, and worldwide economic conditions. The consequences of a slow recovery from recession or a new recession may include a lower level of economic activity and uncertainty regarding energy prices and the capital and commodity markets. A lower level of economic activity may continue to result in a decline in energy consumption, an increase in customers' inability to pay their accounts, and lower commodity prices. These impacts may adversely affect our financial results and future growth. Instability in the financial markets, as a result of recession or otherwise, may affect the cost of capital and our ability to raise capital. We rely on the capital and banking markets, as well as the periodic use of commercial paper to the extent available, to meet our financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs if internal funds are not available from our operations. We also use letters of credit issued under our credit facilities to support our operations. Instability or volatility in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, 16 Table of Contents reduced alternatives, or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed for our businesses, including our ability to secure credit facilities and refinance debt that comes due, and our ability to complete other alternatives we may be exploring. In addition, such instability or volatility could adversely affect our ability to draw on our credit facilities. Our access to funds under those credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the banks that are parties to the facilities to meet their funding commitments. Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments to us if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from borrowers within a short period of time. The instability or volatility in capital and credit markets may also result in higher interest rates on publicly issued debt securities and increased costs associated with commercial paper borrowing and under bank credit facilities. Any disruptions could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures, further changing our strategies to reduce collateral- posting requirements, and reducing or eliminating future dividend payments or other discretionary uses of cash. The inability to obtain the liquidity needed to meet our business requirements, or to obtain such liquidity on terms that are favorable to us, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If entities with which we do business are unable to raise capital or access the credit markets, they may be unable to perform their obligations or make payments under agreements we have with them. Defaults by these entities may have an adverse effect on our financial results. As a result of participation in wholesale and retail energy markets, our NewEnergy business may incur substantial costs and liabilities through exposure to price volatility, counterparty performance risk, and competition that could negatively impact margins. We purchase and sell power and fuel in markets exposed to significant risks, including price volatility for electricity and fuel and the credit risks of counterparties with which we enter into contracts. We use various hedging strategies in an effort to mitigate many of these risks. However, hedging transactions do not guard against all risks and are not always effective, as they are based upon predictions about future market conditions. The inability or failure to effectively hedge assets or fuel or power positions against changes in commodity prices, interest rates, counterparty credit risk or other risk measures could significantly impair our future financial results. Exposure to electricity price volatility. We buy and sell electricity in both the wholesale bilateral markets and spot markets, which expose us to the risks of rising and falling prices in those markets, and our cash flows may vary accordingly. At any given time, the wholesale spot market price of electricity for each hour is generally determined by the cost of supplying the next unit of electricity to the market during that hour. This is highly dependent on the regional generation market. In many cases, the next unit of electricity supplied would be supplied from generating stations fueled by fossil fuels, primarily coal, natural gas and oil. Consequently, the open market wholesale price of electricity may reflect the cost of coal, natural gas or oil plus the cost to convert the fuel to electricity and an appropriate return on capital. Therefore, changes in the supply and cost of coal, natural gas and oil may impact the open market wholesale price of electricity. A portion of our power generation facilities operates wholly or partially without long-term power purchase agreements. As a result, power from these facilities is sold on the spot market or on a short-term contractual basis, which if not fully hedged may affect the volatility of our financial results. Exposure to fuel cost volatility. Currently, our power generation facilities purchase a portion of their fuel through short-term contracts or on the spot market. Fuel prices can be volatile, and the price that can be obtained for power produced from such fuel may not change at the same rate as fuel costs. In addition, new sources of natural gas supplies from domestic shale production, as well as rising liquid natural gas (LNG) exports, could increase the long-term supply of natural gas and create a fundamental and long-lasting decline in natural gas prices. Lower natural gas prices could contribute to a decline in power generation prices that could have an adverse effect on our financial results and cash flows. As a result, fuel price changes may adversely affect our financial results. Exposure to counterparty performance. Our NewEnergy business enters into transactions with numerous third parties (commonly referred to as "counterparties"). In these arrangements, we are exposed to the credit risks of our counterparties and the risk that one or more counterparties may fail to perform under their obligations to make payments or deliver fuel or power. In addition, we enter into various wholesale transactions through Independent System Operators (ISOs). These ISOs are exposed to counterparty credit risks. Any losses relating to counterparty defaults impacting the ISOs are allocated to and borne by all other market participants in the ISO. These risks are exacerbated during periods of commodity price fluctuations. If a counterparty were to default and we were to liquidate all contracts with that entity, our credit loss would include the loss in value of derivative contracts recorded at fair value, the amount owed for settled transactions, and additional payments, if any, 17 Table of Contents that we would have to make to settle unrealized losses on accrual contracts. Defaults by suppliers and other counterparties may adversely affect our financial results. Exposure to margin and volume competition. With sustained low forward natural gas and power prices and low market volatility, overall margins have tightened as retail competitors have aggressively pursued market share and wholesale generators have used the retail channel to hedge generation output. Tightened margins could adversely affect our financial results by decreasing our overall gross margins and profitability. Changes in the prices of commodities, initial margin requirements, collateral posting asymmetries and types of collateral impact our liquidity requirements. Our businesses are exposed to market fluctuations in the price and transportation costs of electricity, natural gas, coal, and other commodities. We seek to mitigate the effect of these fluctuations through various hedging strategies, which may require the posting of collateral by both us and our counterparties. Changes in the prices of commodities and initial margin requirements for exchange-traded contracts can affect the amount of collateral that must be posted, depending on the particular position we hold. There are certain asymmetries relating to the use of collateral that create liquidity requirements for our Generation and NewEnergy businesses. These asymmetries arise as a result of our actions to be economically hedged as well as market conditions or conventions for conducting business that result in some transactions being collateralized while others are not, including: •In our NewEnergy business, we generally do not receive collateral under contractual obligations to supply our customers, but we may hedge these transactions through purchases that generally require us to post collateral. •In our Generation operation, we may have to post collateral on our power sale or fuel purchase contracts. As a result, significant changes in the prices of commodities and margin requirements for exchange-traded contracts could require us to post additional collateral from time to time without our counterparties having to post cash collateral to us, which could adversely affect our overall liquidity and ability to finance our operations, and, in turn, could adversely affect our credit ratings. Additionally, posting letters of credit to counterparties to meet collateral requirements adversely impacts our liquidity, while the receipt of letters of credit as collateral does not improve our liquidity. Reduced liquidity in the markets in which we operate could impair our ability to appropriately manage the risks of our operations. We are an active participant in energy markets through our competitive energy businesses. The liquidity of regional energy markets is an important factor in our ability to manage risks in our operations. Over the past several years, market participants in the merchant energy business have ended or significantly reduced their activities as a result of several factors, including government investigations, changes in market design, and deteriorating credit quality. As a result, several regional energy markets experienced a significant decline in liquidity, which, in turn, has impacted our ability to enter into certain types of transactions to manage our risks for settlement periods beyond 18 to 24 months. Liquidity in the energy markets also can be adversely affected by various factors, including price volatility and the availability of credit. Future reductions in liquidity may restrict our ability to manage our risks and this could impact our financial results. We often rely on single suppliers and at times on single customers, exposing us to significant financial risks if either should fail to perform their obligations. We often rely on a single supplier for the provision of fuel, water, and other services required for operation of a facility, and at times, we rely on a single customer or a few customers to purchase all or a significant portion of a facility's output, in some cases under long-term agreements that provide the support for any project debt used to finance the facility. The failure of any one customer or supplier to fulfill its contractual obligations could negatively impact our financial results. We may not fully hedge our Generation and NewEnergy businesses, or other market positions against changes in commodity prices, and our hedging procedures may not work as planned. To lower our financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations, we routinely enter into contracts to hedge a portion of our purchase and sale commitments, weather positions, fuel requirements, inventories of natural gas, coal and other commodities, and competitive supply obligations. As part of this strategy, we routinely utilize fixed-price forward physical purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps, and option contracts traded in the over-the-counter markets or on exchanges. However, we may not cover the entire exposure of our assets or positions to market price volatility, and the coverage will vary over time. Fluctuating commodity prices may negatively impact our financial results to the extent we have unhedged positions. 18 Table of Contents In addition, risk management tools and metrics such as economic value at risk, daily value at risk, and stress testing are based on historical price movements. If price movements significantly or persistently deviate from historical behavior, risk limits may not fully protect us from significant losses. Our risk management policies and procedures may not always work as planned. As a result of these and other factors, we cannot predict with precision the impact that risk management decisions may have on our financial results. The use of derivative and nonderivative contracts in the normal course of business could result in financial losses that negatively impact our financial results. We use derivative instruments such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, as well as nonderivative contracts, to manage our commodity and financial market risks and to engage in trading activities. We could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of derivative instruments involves management's judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these contracts. Additionally, the settlement of derivative instruments could reflect a realized value that differs from our reported estimates of fair value. Inaccurate assumptions and estimates in the models we use could adversely impact our financial results. We deploy many models to value merchant contracts, derivatives and assets, to dispatch power from our generation plants, and to measure the risks and costs of various transactions and businesses. Also, a significant portion of our business relies on the assumptions underlying the forecasting of customer load, correlations between prices of energy commodities and weather and the creditworthiness of our customers and other third parties. Inaccurate estimates of various business assumptions used in those models could create the mispricing of customer contracts and assets or the incorrect measurement of key risks relating to our portfolios and businesses that could adversely impact our financial results. Poor market performance will affect our pension plan investments, which may adversely affect our liquidity and financial results. At December 31, 2011, our qualified pension obligation was approximately $225 million greater than the fair value of our plan assets. The performance of the capital markets will affect the value of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy our future obligations under our qualified pension plans. A decline in the market value of those assets or the failure of those assets to earn an adequate return may increase our funding requirements for these obligations, which may adversely affect our liquidity and financial results. The operation of power generation facilities involves significant risks that could adversely affect our financial results. We own, operate and have ownership interests in a number of power generation facilities. The operation of power generation facilities involves many risks, including start-up risks, breakdown or failure of equipment, transmission lines, substations or pipelines, use of new technology, the dependence on a specific fuel source, including the transportation of fuel, or the impact of unusual or adverse weather conditions (including natural disasters such as hurricanes) or environmental compliance, as well as the risk of performance below expected or contracted levels of output or efficiency. This could result in lost revenues and/or increased expenses. Insurance, warranties, or performance guarantees may not cover any or all of the lost revenues or increased expenses, including the cost of replacement power. A portion of our generation facilities were constructed many years ago. Older generating equipment may require significant capital expenditures to keep it operating at peak efficiency. This equipment is also likely to require periodic upgrading and improvement. Breakdown or failure of one of our operating facilities may prevent the facility from performing under applicable power sales agreements which, in certain situations, could result in termination of the agreement or incurring a liability for liquidated damages. Our Generation business may incur substantial costs and liabilities due to our ownership interest in nuclear generating facilities. Through our nuclear joint venture, we indirectly own substantial interests in nuclear power plants. Operation of these plants exposes us to risks in addition to those that result from owning and operating non-nuclear power generation facilities. These risks include normal operating risks for a nuclear facility and the risks of a nuclear accident. Nuclear Operating Risks. The operation of nuclear generating facilities involves routine operating risks, including: •mechanical or structural problems; •inadequacy or lapses in maintenance protocols; •impairment of reactor operation and safety systems due to human or mechanical error; 19 Table of Contents •costs of storage, handling and disposal of nuclear materials, including the availability or unavailability of a permanent repository for spent nuclear fuel; •regulatory actions, including shut down of units because of public safety concerns, whether at our plants or other nuclear operators; •limitations on the amounts and types of insurance coverage commercially available; •uncertainties regarding both technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear generating facilities; and •environmental risks, including risks associated with changes in environmental legal requirements. Nuclear Accident Risks. In the event of a nuclear accident, the cost of property damage and other expenses incurred may exceed the insurance coverage available from both private sources and an industry retrospective payment plan. In addition, in the event of an accident at our nuclear joint venture or another participating insured party's nuclear plants, we or CENG could be assessed retrospective insurance premiums (because all nuclear plant operators contribute to a nationwide catastrophic insurance fund). In instances where CENG is the member insured, we have guaranteed our share of CENG's performance. Uninsured losses or the payment of retrospective insurance premiums could each have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that require capital expenditures, increase our cost of operations and may expose us to environmental liabilities. We are subject to extensive federal, state, and local environmental statutes, rules, and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, waste management, wildlife protection, the management of natural resources, and the protection of human health and safety that could, among other things, require additional pollution control equipment, limit the use of certain fuels, restrict the output of certain facilities, or otherwise increase costs. Significant capital expenditures, operating and other costs are associated with compliance with environmental requirements, and these expenditures and costs could become even more significant in the future as a result of regulatory changes. Examples of potential future regulatory changes include additional regulation of greenhouse gas emissions at the federal, regional, and/or state level, heightened enforcement of new source review requirements, increased regulation of coal combustion by-products, and mandated investment in maximum achievable control technology or renewable energy resources. One or more of these changes could increase our compliance and operating costs or require significant commitments of capital. We are subject to liability under environmental laws for the costs of remediating environmental contamination. Remediation activities include the cleanup of current facilities and former properties, including manufactured gas plant operations and offsite waste disposal facilities. The remediation costs could be significantly higher than the liabilities recorded by us. Also, our subsidiaries are currently involved in proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been released and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. We are subject to legal proceedings by individuals alleging injury from exposure to hazardous substances and could incur liabilities that may be material to our financial results. Additional proceedings could be filed against us in the future. We may also be required to assume environmental liabilities in connection with future acquisitions. As a result, we may be liable for significant environmental remediation costs and other liabilities arising from the operation of acquired facilities, which may adversely affect our financial results. We, and BGE in particular, are subject to extensive local, state and federal regulation that could affect our operations and costs. We are subject to regulation by federal and state governmental entities, including the FERC, the NRC, the Maryland PSC and the utility commissions of other states in which we have operations. In addition, changing governmental policies and regulatory actions can have a significant impact on us. Regulations can affect, for example, allowed rates of return, requirements for plant operations, recovery of costs, limitations on dividend payments, and the regulation or re-regulation of wholesale and retail competition. BGE's distribution rates are subject to regulation by the Maryland PSC, and such rates are effective until new rates are approved. If the Maryland PSC does not approve adequate new rates, BGE might not be able to recover certain costs it incurs or earn an adequate rate of return. In addition, limited categories of costs are recovered through adjustment charges that are periodically reset to reflect current and projected costs. Inability to recover material costs not included in rates or adjustment clauses could have an adverse effect on our, or BGE's, cash flow and financial position. Energy legislation enacted in Maryland in June 2006 and April 2007 mandated that the Maryland PSC review Maryland's competitive electricity market. Although the settlement agreement reached with the State of Maryland in March 2008 terminated certain studies relating to the 1999 deregulation settlement, the State of Maryland is still undertaking a review of the Maryland electric industry and market structure to consider various options for providing standard offer service to residential customers, including re-regulation. We cannot at this time predict the final outcome of this 20 Table of Contents review or how such outcome may affect our, or BGE's financial results, but it could be material. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act provides for a new regulatory regime for derivatives. Final regulations may address collateral requirements, exchange margin cash postings, and other aspects of derivative transactions, which if applicable to us despite being an end user of derivatives, could require us to post additional cash collateral or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business. We are also subject to mandatory reliability standards enacted by the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) and enforced by the FERC. Compliance with the mandatory reliability standards may subject us to higher operating costs and may result in increased capital expenditures. If we are found to be in noncompliance with the mandatory reliability standards, we could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties. Additionally, in 2011, the State of Maryland enacted legislation that imposed reliability and quality of service standards on electric companies and requires the Maryland PSC to enact regulations by July 1, 2012 to implement these standards. Further, federal and/or state regulatory approval may be necessary for us to complete transactions. As part of the regulatory approval process, governmental entities may impose terms and conditions on the transaction or our business that are unfavorable or add significant additional costs to our future operations. The regulatory and legislative process may restrict our ability to grow earnings in certain parts of our business, cause delays in or affect business planning and transactions and increase our, or BGE's, costs. We operate in competitive segments of the electric and gas industries created by federal and state restructuring initiatives. If competitive restructuring of the electric or gas industries is amended, reversed, discontinued, restricted, or delayed, our business prospects and financial results could be materially adversely affected. The regulatory environment applicable to the electric and natural gas industries has undergone substantial changes as a result of restructuring initiatives at both the state and federal levels. These initiatives have had a significant impact on the nature of the electric and natural gas industries and the manner in which their participants conduct their businesses. We have targeted the competitive segments of the electric and natural gas industries created by these initiatives. Energy companies have been under increased scrutiny by state legislatures, regulatory bodies, capital markets, and credit rating agencies. This increased scrutiny could lead to substantial changes in laws and regulations affecting us, including modifications to the auction processes in competitive markets and new accounting standards that could change the way we are required to record revenues, expenses, assets, and liabilities. Proposals in the State of Maryland from time to time relating to the structure of the electric industry in Maryland and various options for re-regulation of the industry are examples of how these laws and regulations can change. In addition, other states are seeking more direct ways to affect the results of wholesale capacity markets, including through legislative or regulatory action that provides subsidies to or guaranteed cost recovery for the development of new generation in exchange for the new generation clearing in the PJM capacity market. We cannot predict the future development of regulation or legislation in these markets or the ultimate effect that this changing regulatory environment will have on our business. If competitive restructuring of the electric and natural gas markets is amended, reversed, discontinued, restricted, or delayed, or if legislative or regulatory proposals are implemented in a manner adverse to us, our business prospects and financial results could be negatively impacted. Our financial results may be harmed if transportation and transmission availability is limited or unreliable. We have business operations throughout the United States and in Canada. As a result, we depend on transportation and transmission facilities owned and operated by utilities and other energy companies to deliver the electricity, natural gas and other related products we sell to the wholesale and retail markets, as well as the natural gas and coal we purchase to supply some of our generating facilities. If transportation or transmission is disrupted or capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver products may be hindered. Such disruptions could also hinder our ability to provide electricity, coal, or natural gas to our customers or power plants and may materially adversely affect our financial results. BGE's electric and gas infrastructure may require significant expenditures to maintain and is subject to operational failure, which could result in potential liability. Much of BGE's electric and gas operational systems and infrastructure, such as gas mains and pipelines and electric transmission and distribution equipment, has been in service for many years. Older equipment, even if maintained in accordance with good utility practices, is subject to operational failure, including due to events that are beyond BGE's control, and may require significant expenditures to operate efficiently. Operational failure could result in potential liability if such failure results in damage to property or injury to individuals. As a result, electric and gas infrastructure expenditures and operational failure of equipment could have an adverse effect on our, or BGE's, financial results. 21 Table of Contents Our NewEnergy business has contractual obligations to certain customers to provide full requirements service, which makes it difficult to predict and plan for load requirements and may result in reduced revenues and increased operating costs to our business. Our NewEnergy business has contractual obligations to certain customers to supply full requirements service to such customers to satisfy all or a portion of their energy requirements. The uncertainty regarding the amount of load that our NewEnergy business must be prepared to supply to customers may increase our operating costs. The process of estimating the load requirements of our customers is complicated by potential variability in demand resulting from extreme changes in weather and economic factors affecting our customers. A significant under- or over-estimation of load requirements could result in our NewEnergy business not having enough power or having too much power to cover its load obligation, in which case it would be required to buy or sell power from or to third parties at prevailing market prices. Those prices may not be favorable and thus could reduce our revenues and/or increase our operating costs and result in the possibility of reduced earnings or incurring losses. Our financial results may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis or as a result of severe weather. Our business is affected by weather conditions. Our overall operating results may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis, and the pattern of this fluctuation may change depending on the nature and location of any facility we acquire and the terms of any contract to which we become a party. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas and affect the price of energy commodities. Generally, demand for electricity peaks in winter and summer and demand for gas peaks in the winter. Typically, when winters are warmer than expected and summers are cooler than expected, demand for energy is lower, resulting in less electric and gas consumption than forecasted. Depending on prevailing market prices for electricity and gas, these and other unexpected conditions may reduce our revenues and results of operations. First and third quarter financial results, in particular, are substantially dependent on weather conditions, and may make period comparisons less relevant. Severe weather can be destructive, causing outages and/or property damage. This could require us to incur additional costs. Catastrophic weather, such as hurricanes, could impact our or our customers' operating facilities, communication systems and technology. Unfavorable weather conditions may have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Investment in new business initiatives and markets may not be successful. Our NewEnergy business has sought to invest in new business initiatives and actively participate in new markets. These include, but are not limited to, unconventional oil and gas exploration and production, residential retail power and gas sales, solar and wind generation, and managed load response. Such initiatives may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management from current operations, inadequate return on capital, and unidentified issues not discovered in the diligence performed prior to launching an initiative or entering a market. Additionally, as these markets mature, there may be new market entrants or expansion by established competitors that increase competition for customers and resources, which could result in us not achieving our plans and could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. In addition to our NewEnergy business, BGE faces risks associated with its Smart Grid initiative. These risks include, but are not limited to, cost recovery, regulatory concerns, cyber security and obsolescence of technology. Due to these risks, no assurance can be given that such initiatives will be successful and will not have a material adverse effect on our financial results. A failure in our operational systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, may adversely affect our financial results. Our businesses are dependent upon our operational systems to process a large amount of data and complex transactions. If any of our financial, accounting, or other data processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, our financial results could be adversely affected. Our financial results could also be adversely affected if an employee causes our operational systems to fail, either as a result of inadvertent error or by deliberately tampering with or manipulating our operational systems. In addition, dependence upon automated systems may further increase the risk that operational system flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. We may also be subject to disruptions of our operational systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control (for example, natural disasters, acts of terrorism, epidemics, computer viruses and telecommunications outages). Third party systems on which we rely could also suffer operational system failure. Any of these occurrences could disrupt one or more of our businesses, result in potential liability or reputational damage or otherwise have an adverse affect on our financial results. 22 Table of Contents Our ability to successfully identify, complete and integrate acquisitions is subject to significant risks, including the effect of increased competition. We are likely to encounter significant competition for acquisition opportunities that may become available. In addition, we may be unable to identify attractive acquisition opportunities at favorable prices, to secure the financing necessary to undertake them, or to successfully and timely complete and integrate them. Specifically, we intend to continue to pursue the acquisition of new generating plants in regions where we have significant retail and wholesale customer supply operations. Acquired plants may not generate the projected rates of return or sufficiently match generation capacity with retail and wholesale customer supply operations volumes causing an increase in collateral requirements. If we cannot identify, complete and integrate acquisitions successfully, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. War, threats of terrorism and catastrophic events may impact the results of our operations in unpredictable ways. We cannot predict the impact that any future act of war, terrorist attack, or catastrophic event might have on the energy industry in general and on our business in particular. In addition, any retaliatory military strikes or sustained military campaign may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, such as changes in insurance markets and disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil. The possibility alone that infrastructure facilities, such as electric generation, electric and gas transmission and distribution facilities would be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror, war, or a catastrophic event may affect our operations. Furthermore, these catastrophic events could compromise the physical or cyber security of our facilities, which could adversely affect our ability to manage our business effectively. Such activity may have an adverse effect on the United States economy in general. A lower level of economic activity might result in a decline in energy consumption, which may adversely affect our financial results or restrict our future growth. Instability in the financial markets as a result of war, threats of terrorism, and catastrophic events may affect our stock price and our ability to raise capital. In addition, we maintain a level of insurance coverage consistent with industry practices against property and casualty losses subject to unforeseen occurrences or catastrophic events that may damage or destroy assets or interrupt operations. Furthermore, in the event of a severe disruption resulting from war, threats of terrorism, and catastrophic events, we have contingency plans and employ crisis management to respond and recover operations. Despite these measures, there may be events beyond our control that may severely impact operations and affect financial performance. A downgrade in our credit ratings could negatively affect our ability to access capital and/or operate our wholesale and retail NewEnergy business. We rely on access to capital markets as a source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by operating cash flows. If any of our credit ratings were to be downgraded, especially below investment grade, our ability to raise capital on favorable terms, including in the commercial paper markets, if available, could be hindered, and our borrowing costs would increase. Additionally, the business prospects of our wholesale and retail NewEnergy business, which in many cases rely on the creditworthiness of Constellation Energy, would be negatively impacted. In this regard, we have certain agreements that contain provisions that would require us to post additional collateral upon a credit rating downgrade. Based on market conditions and contractual obligations at the time of a downgrade, we could be required to post collateral in an amount that exceeds our available liquidity. Some of the factors that affect credit ratings are cash flows, liquidity, the amount of debt as a component of total capitalization, and political, legislative, and regulatory events. We are subject to employee workforce factors that could affect our businesses and financial results. We are subject to employee workforce factors, including loss or retirement of key executives or other employees, availability of qualified personnel, collective bargaining agreements with union employees, and work stoppage that could affect our financial results. In particular, our competitive energy businesses are dependent, in part, on recruiting and retaining personnel with experience in sophisticated energy transactions and the functioning of complex wholesale markets. Our employees, contractors, customers, and the general public may be exposed to a risk of injury due to the nature of the energy industry. Employees and contractors throughout the organization work in, and customers and the general public may be exposed to, potentially dangerous conditions near our operations. As a result, employees, contractors, customers, and the general public may be at risk for serious injury, including loss of life. Significant risks include nuclear accidents, gas explosions, and electric contact cases. 23 Table of Contents Because the market price of shares of Exelon common stock will fluctuate and the exchange ratio will not be adjusted to reflect such fluctuations, the merger consideration at the date of the closing may vary significantly from the date the merger agreement was executed. Upon completion of the merger, each outstanding share of Constellation Energy common stock will be converted into the right to receive 0.93 of a share of Exelon common stock. The number of shares of Exelon common stock to be issued pursuant to the merger agreement for each share of Constellation Energy common stock will not change to reflect changes in the market price of Exelon or Constellation Energy common stock. The market price of Exelon common stock at the time of completion of the merger may vary significantly from the market prices of Exelon common stock on the date the merger agreement was executed. In addition, we might not complete the merger until a significant period of time has passed after the respective special shareholder meetings. Because Exelon will not adjust the exchange ratio to reflect any changes in the market value of Exelon common stock or Constellation Energy common stock, the market value of the Exelon common stock issued in connection with the merger and the Constellation Energy common stock surrendered in connection with the merger may be higher or lower than the values of those shares on earlier dates. Stock price changes may result from market reaction to the announcement of the merger and market assessment of the likelihood that the merger will be completed, changes in the business, operations or prospects of Exelon or Constellation Energy prior to or following the merger, litigation or regulatory considerations, general business, market, industry or economic conditions and other factors both within and beyond the control of Exelon and Constellation Energy. Neither we nor Exelon is permitted to terminate the merger agreement solely because of changes in the market price of either company's common stock. The merger agreement contains provisions that limit each of Exelon's and Constellation Energy's ability to pursue alternatives to the merger, which could discourage a potential acquirer of either Constellation Energy or Exelon from making an alternative transaction proposal and, in certain circumstances, could require Exelon or Constellation Energy to pay to the other a significant termination fee. Under the merger agreement, we and Exelon are restricted, subject to limited exceptions, from entering into alternative transactions in lieu of the merger. In general, unless and until the merger agreement is terminated, both we and Exelon are restricted from, among other things, soliciting, initiating, knowingly encouraging or facilitating a competing acquisition proposal from any person. Each of the Exelon board of directors and the Constellation Energy board of directors is limited in its ability to change its recommendation with respect to the merger-related proposals. We or Exelon may terminate the merger agreement and enter into an agreement with respect to a superior proposal only if specified conditions have been satisfied, including compliance with the non-solicitation provisions of the merger agreement. These provisions could discourage a third party that may have an interest in acquiring all or a significant part of Exelon or Constellation Energy from considering or proposing such an acquisition, even if such third party were prepared to pay consideration with a higher per share cash or market value than the consideration proposed to be received or realized in the merger, or might result in a potential competing acquirer proposing to pay a lower price than it would otherwise have proposed to pay because of the added expense of the termination fee that may become payable in certain circumstances. Under the merger agreement, if the merger agreement is terminated and another acquisition proposal is accepted, we or Exelon, as applicable, may be required to pay a termination fee of $800 million in the case of a termination fee payable by Exelon to us and a termination fee of $200 million in the case of a termination fee payable by us to Exelon. Exelon and Constellation Energy are subject to various uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the merger is pending that may cause disruption and could adversely affect their financial results. Uncertainty about the effect of the merger on employees, suppliers and customers may have an adverse effect on us and/or Exelon. These uncertainties may impair our and/or Exelon's ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the merger is completed and for a period of time thereafter, as employees and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company, and could cause customers, suppliers and others who deal with us or Exelon to seek to change existing business relationships with us or Exelon. The pursuit of the merger and the preparation for the integration may also place a burden on management and internal resources. Any significant diversion of management attention away from ongoing business concerns and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could affect our and/or Exelon's financial results. In addition, the merger agreement restricts each of Exelon and Constellation Energy, without the other's consent, from making certain acquisitions and taking other specified actions while the merger is pending. These restrictions may prevent Exelon and/or Constellation Energy from pursuing otherwise attractive business opportunities and making other changes to their respective businesses prior to completion of the merger or termination of the merger agreement. 24 Table of Contents If completed, the merger may not achieve its anticipated results, and Exelon and Constellation Energy may be unable to integrate their operations in the manner expected. We entered into the merger agreement with the expectation that the merger will result in various benefits, including, among other things, cost savings and operating efficiencies. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the merger is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether the businesses of Exelon and Constellation Energy can be integrated in an efficient, effective and timely manner. It is possible that the integration process could take longer than anticipated and could result in the loss of valuable employees, the disruption of each company's ongoing businesses, processes and systems or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, practices, policies and compensation arrangements, any of which could adversely affect the combined company's ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger as and when expected. The combined company's results of operations could also be adversely affected by any issues attributable to either company's operations that arise or are based on events or actions that occur prior to the closing of the merger. The companies may have difficulty addressing possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs or decreases in the amount of expected revenues and could adversely affect the combined company's future business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. Pending litigation against Exelon and Constellation Energy could result in an injunction preventing the completion of the merger or a judgment resulting in the payment of damages in the event the merger is completed and may adversely affect the combined company's business, financial condition or results of operations and cash flows following the merger. Twelve purported class action lawsuits were filed against us, each member of our board of directors, Exelon and Bolt Acquisition Corporation, a Maryland corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Exelon, in connection with the merger. Among other things, the lawsuits sought injunctive relief that would have prevented completion of the merger in accordance with the terms of the merger agreement. The parties to the litigation have reached a settlement that remains subject to court approval. If the settlement is not approved by the court, these lawsuits could prevent or delay completion of the merger and result in substantial costs to us and Exelon, including any costs associated with the indemnification of directors and officers. Plaintiffs may file additional lawsuits against us, Exelon and/or the directors and officers of either company in connection with the merger. The defense or settlement of any lawsuit or claim that remains unresolved at the time the merger is completed may adversely affect the combined company's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The merger is subject to the receipt of consent or approval from governmental entities that could delay the completion of the merger or impose conditions that could have a material adverse effect on the combined company or that could cause abandonment of the merger. Completion of the merger remains conditioned upon the receipt of consents, orders, approvals or clearances from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC), and the Maryland PSC. The special meetings of the shareholders of Exelon and Constellation Energy at which the proposals required to complete the merger were considered took place before all of the required regulatory approvals had been obtained and before all conditions to such approvals, if any, were known. We and Exelon may subsequently agree to conditions without seeking further shareholder approval, such as the settlement agreements reached in December 2011 and January 2012, even if such conditions could have an adverse effect on us, Exelon, or the combined company. We cannot provide assurance that we and Exelon will obtain all required regulatory consents or approvals or that these consents or approvals will not contain terms, conditions or restrictions that would be detrimental to the combined company after the completion of the merger. The merger agreement generally permits each party to terminate the merger agreement if the final terms of any of the required regulatory consents or approvals require (1) any action that involves divesting, holding separate or otherwise transferring control over any nuclear or hydroelectric or pumped-storage generation assets of the parties or any of their respective subsidiaries or affiliates; or (2) any action (including any action that involves divesting, holding separate or otherwise transferring control over base-load capacity), without including those actions proposed by the parties' mutually agreed-upon analysis of mitigation to address the increased market concentration resulting from the merger and the concessions announced by the parties in the press release announcing the merger agreement, which would, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on either party. Any substantial delay in obtaining satisfactory approvals, receipt of proceeds from required divestitures in an amount substantially lower than anticipated or the imposition of any terms or conditions in connection with such approvals could cause a material reduction in the expected benefits of the merger. If any such delays or conditions are serious enough, the parties may decide to abandon the merger. 25 Table of Contents If completed, the merger may adversely affect the combined company's ability to attract and retain key employees. Current and prospective Exelon and Constellation Energy employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles at the combined company following the completion of the proposed merger. In addition, current and prospective Exelon and Constellation Energy employees may determine that they do not desire to work for the combined company for a variety of possible reasons. These factors may adversely affect the combined company's ability to attract and retain key management and other personnel. Failure to complete the merger could negatively affect our share price and our future business and financial results. Completion of the merger is not assured and is subject to risks, including the risks that approval of the transaction by shareholders of Exelon and Constellation Energy or by governmental agencies will not be obtained or that certain other closing conditions will not be satisfied. If the merger is not completed, our ongoing business may be adversely affected and we will be subject to several risks, including: •having to pay certain significant costs relating to the merger without receiving the benefits of the merger, including, in certain circumstances, a termination fee of $200 million to Exelon; •the potential loss of key personnel during the pendency of the merger as employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company; •we will have been subject to certain restrictions on the conduct of our business, which may have prevented us from making certain acquisitions or dispositions or pursuing certain business opportunities while the merger is pending; and •our share price may decline to the extent that the current market prices reflect an assumption by the market that the merger will be completed. Exelon and Constellation Energy may incur unexpected transaction fees and merger-related costs in connection with the merger. We and Exelon expect to incur a number of non-recurring expenses, totaling approximately $150 million, associated with completing the merger, as well as expenses related to combining the operations of the two companies. The combined company may incur additional unanticipated costs in the integration of the businesses of Exelon and Constellation Energy. Although we expect that the elimination of certain duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the two businesses, will offset the incremental transaction and merger-related costs over time, the combined company may not achieve this net benefit in the near term, or at all. Current Constellation Energy stockholders will have a reduced ownership and voting interest after the merger. Exelon will issue or reserve for issuance approximately 201.9 million shares of Exelon common stock to Constellation Energy stockholders in the merger (including shares of Exelon common stock issuable pursuant to Constellation Energy stock options and other equity-based awards). Based on the number of shares of common stock of Exelon and Constellation Energy outstanding on October 7, 2011, the record date for the two companies' special meetings of shareholders to approve the merger, upon the completion of the merger, former Constellation Energy stockholders would own approximately 22% of the outstanding shares of Exelon common stock immediately following the consummation of the merger. Constellation Energy stockholders currently have the right to vote for our directors and on other matters affecting us. When the merger occurs, each Constellation Energy stockholder who receives shares of Exelon common stock will become a shareholder of Exelon with a percentage ownership of the combined company that will be smaller than the shareholder's percentage ownership of Constellation Energy. As a result, former Constellation Energy stockholders will have less voting power in the combined company than they now have with respect to Constellation Energy. Following the merger, Constellation Energy stockholders will own equity interests in a company that owns and operates a relatively higher proportion of nuclear generating facilities, which can present unique risks. Exelon's ownership interest in and operation of a relatively higher proportion of nuclear facilities than Constellation Energy subjects Exelon to increased associated risks, including the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from the operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with nuclear operations; uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear plants at the end of their licensed lives; and costs associated with regulatory oversight by the NRC, including NRC imposed fines, lost revenues as a result of any NRC ordered shutdown of Exelon nuclear facilities, or increased capital costs as a result of increased NRC safety and security regulations, including any new requirements as a result of the NRC's review of the accident at the Fukushima 26 Table of Contents nuclear power plant in Japan. As shareholders of Exelon following the merger, Constellation Energy stockholders may be adversely affected by these risks to a greater extent than they were prior to the merger. 