Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent in our business. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included in this report. In addition to the risks and uncertainties described below, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these identified or other risks, and you could lose all of your investment. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability and affect the value of our assets. We are subject to interest rate risk. Our primary source of earnings is net interest income, which is affected by yield on interest-earning assets, cost of interest-bearing liabilities and the absolute and relative volume of each. We expect that we will periodically experience imbalances in the interest rate sensitivity of our assets and liabilities and the relationships of various interest rates to each other. Over any defined period of time, our interest-earning assets may be more sensitive to changes in market rates than our interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa. In addition, loan volume and quality and deposit volume and mix can be affected by market interest rates. Changes in levels of market interest rates could materially affect our net interest spread and margin, asset quality, origination volume and overall profitability. We manage interest rate risk by managing the volume and mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively. If we are unable to manage interest rate risk effectively, our business model, financial condition and results of operations could be materially affected. See Item 7- “Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations- Asset/Liability Management”. Our allowance for loan and leases may not be adequate to cover actual losses. A significant source of risk arises from the possibility that we could sustain losses because borrowers, guarantors, and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. The underlying and credit monitoring polices and procedures that we have adopted to address this risk may not prevent unexpected losses that could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. Unexpected losses may arise from a variety of specific systematic factors, many of which are beyond our ability to predict, influence or control. As with most lending institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses to provide for defaults and non-performance. Our allowance for loan and lease losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses, and future provisions for losses could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The allowance for loan and lease losses reflects our estimate of the probable losses in our portfolio of loans and leases at the relevant balance sheet date. Our allowance for loan and lease losses is based on prior experience as well as an evaluation of the known risks in the current portfolio, composition and growth of the portfolio and economic factors. The determination of an appropriate level of loss allowance is an inherently difficult process and is based on numerous assumptions. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, that may be beyond our control and these losses may exceed current estimates. Federal and state regulatory agencies, as an integral part of the examination process, review our loans, leases, loan related commitments and allowance for loan and lease losses. While we believe that our allowance for loan and lease losses is adequate to cover current losses, we cannot assure you that we will not increase the allowance for loan and lease losses further or that regulators will not require us to increase this allowance. Either of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 48 Table of Contents An increase in loan prepayments may adversely affect our profitability. Prepayment rates are affected by consumer behavior, conditions in the real estate and other financial markets, general economic conditions and the relative interest rates on fixed-rate and adjustable-rate mortgage loans. Changes in prepayment rates are therefore difficult for us to predict. We recognize our deferred loan origination costs and premiums paid in originating loans by adjusting our interest income over the life of the individual loans. As prepayments occur, the rate at which net deferred loan origination costs and premiums are expensed accelerates. The effect of the acceleration of deferred costs and premium amortization may be mitigated by prepayment penalties paid by borrowers when loans are paid in full within a certain period of time which varies among loans. We may not be able to reinvest prepayments on loans at rates comparable to the rates on the prepaid instrument particularly during periods of declining interest rates. Our construction loans are based upon estimates of costs and value associated with the completed project. These construction estimates could be inaccurate. We originate construction loans for single family home construction as well as for income producing properties. At March 31, 2007, construction loans totaled $1.78 billion, or 38% of gross loans receivable. Construction lending involves risks associated with the timely completion of the construction activities for their allotted costs and the time needed to stabilize income producing properties, sell residential tract developments or refinance the indebtedness. Our real estate lending also exposes us to the risk of environmental liabilities. In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate, subjecting us to substantial environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third persons for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. This could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Negative events or changes in economic conditions in certain geographic areas, particularly Southern California, could adversely affect us. Our banking operations are concentrated primarily in Southern California’s Inland Empire. Adverse economic and governmental conditions or natural disasters in this region could have an impact on borrowers’ ability to make payments on their loans, decrease the level and duration of deposits by customers and erode the value of loan collateral. The demand for our products and services may decline. These events could increase the amount of non-performing assets and have an adverse effect on our efforts to collect on non-performing loans or otherwise liquidate our non-performing assets on terms favorable to us. At March 31, 2007, approximately 84% of our mortgage loans were secured by real estate in Southern California. 49 Table of Contents We operate in a competitive environment with other financial institutions which could adversely affect our profitability. The banking and financial services industry is very competitive in Southern California, where the housing market is especially robust. A number of financial service companies located in Orange County and the Inland Empire of Southern California have announced mergers with intrastate or out of state financial institutions. Consolidation among financial service providers has resulted in fewer very large national and regional banking and financial institutions holding increasingly large accumulations of assets and deposits. These institutions generally have significantly greater resources, a wider geographic presence and savings branch network than us. Our competitors sometimes are also able to offer more services, more favorable pricing or greater customer convenience than we do, since they are larger than us and have more resources available to them. In addition, our competition has grown from new banks and other financial services providers that target our existing or potential customers. We rely heavily on the proper functioning of our technology. As of March 31, 2007, our deposit portfolio totals $3.29 billion and gross loans totals $4.71 billion. We rely on outside servicers to provide technology for much of our business, including recording our loans and deposits. We also maintain a general ledger system for accounting and financial reporting purposes. While we have invested and continue to invest substantial resources in contingency and business resumption planning, if our computer systems or outside technology sources fail, are not reliable or there is a breach of security, our ability to maintain profitable operations may be impaired. We are dependent upon the services of our management team. We are dependent upon the ability and experience of a number of our key management personnel who have substantial experience with our operations, the financial services industry and the markets in which we offer our services. Despite significant attention to succession planning, it is possible that the loss of the services of one or more of our senior executives or key managers would have an adverse effect on our operations. Our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, manage and retain other qualified personnel as we grow. Terrorist activities could cause reductions in investor confidence and substantial volatility in real estate and securities markets. It is impossible to predict the extent to which terrorist activities may occur in the United States or other regions, or their effect on a particular security issue. It is also uncertain what effects any past or future terrorist activities will have on local, regional and national economies; and real estate markets. Among other things, reduced investor confidence could result in substantial volatility in securities markets, which may also affect interest rates. We are subject to extensive regulation that could restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business. We are a unitary savings and loan holding company, and the Bank is a federal savings bank, which is subject to extensive regulation. The cost of compliance with regulatory requirements may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Federal and state laws and regulations govern numerous matters including: changes in the ownership or control of banks and bank holding companies; maintenance of adequate capital and the financial condition of a financial institution; permissible types, amounts and terms of extensions of credit and investments; permissible non-banking activities; the level of reserves against deposits; and restrictions on dividend payments. The laws, rules and regulations applicable to us are subject to regular modification and change. I tem 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 50 Table of Contents 