risk factors described herein and general economic conditions. In the past, following decreases or volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our future results may also be affected by our ability to continue to develop, introduce and deliver enhanced and new products in a timely manner, to offer new products at competitive prices, to offer existing products at lower prices, to compete with competitors that are larger than us and to anticipate and meet customer demands. There can be no assurance that sales in any particular quarter will not be lower than those of the preceding quarters, including comparable quarters. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. The volatility in our operating results may also result in significant volatility in our share price. Furthermore, as described above, our share price is also subject to the price volatility experienced by many companies in the telecommunications sector, VoIP industry and related sectors. It is also possible that our quarterly results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. If this happens, the price of our ordinary shares is likely to decrease. 10 THERE IS NO ASSURANCE THAT WE WILL BE SUCCESSFUL IN OBTAINING AND MAINTAINING A SUFFICIENT MARKET SHARE FOR OUR PRODUCTS. IN ADDITION, WE HAVE BEEN ENCOUNTERING VARIOUS CHALLENGES AFFECTING THE SALE OF OUR PRODUCTS. Since the consummation of the business combination, we have encountered various challenges inherent to entering into a new business, including learning and understanding new target markets, positioning our products in an already competitive market, creating and maintaining relationships with new suppliers, customers and other third parties and subjecting the products to testing and training of sales and marketing employees to enable them to successfully promote the sale of the Essentra products. This requires the allocation of substantial resources. In addition, since the consummation of the business combination the Company has been focusing its development efforts on the Essentra line of products. The Essentra product solutions were already deployed by several customers and are carrying live traffic; however, certain elements of the products are still subject to additional development, testing and modifications and have not yet been used extensively by customers, which prevents us from demonstrating a proven track record and wide deployment references, which are crucial for our growth and expansion to larger carriers. Furthermore, unlike the companies first generation of products, which were unique and the first of their kind to be introduced to the telecommunications market, the Essentra products compete with existing, comparable products of various companies, some of which have certain advantages over us, including larger financial resources, access to prospective customers and an established market for their products. Our products must comply with various international and domestic regulations and standards defined by regulatory agencies. If we do not comply with existing or evolving industry standards and other regulatory requirements or if we fail to obtain in a timely manner any required domestic or foreign regulatory approvals or certificates, we will not be able to sell our products where these standards or regulations apply, which may harm our business. Maintaining and increasing our revenues are dependent, among other things, upon the ability of our products to meet market and customer requirements. To this end, we are involved in a continuous process to evaluate changing market demands and customer requirements, and to develop and introduce new products, features and applications to meet such changing demands and requirements. In addition, prospective customers may require product features and capabilities that are not included in our current product offerings. The introduction of new or enhanced products also requires that we carefully manage the transition from our older products as we ensure the continued provision of maintenance and other services for our older products. A number of risks are inherent in this process, including the fact that we may not successfully anticipate market requirements or complete the development or introduction of these products and that the development of new technologies and products is increasingly complex and uncertain. This can result in delays in the introduction of new technologies and products, and requires close collaboration and continued technological advancement involving multiple software design teams and outside suppliers of key components. The failure of any one of these elements could cause new products to fail to meet specifications, market requirements or customer demands, or to miss delivery schedules. If we fail to develop products and offer services that satisfy customer requirements, or if we fail to effectively manage the transition from our older products to our new or enhanced products, our ability to create or increase demand for our products would be seriously harmed and we may lose current and prospective customers, thereby harming our business. 11 Deployment, sale and marketing of products in certain states and countries may subject us to environmental and other regulations including, in some instances, the requirement to provide to customers the ability to return products at the end of their useful life. Further, our results could be adversely affected by factors such as lack of market acceptance of our products, delays in product development, and delays in customer purchases of products in anticipation of the introduction of new products and the rapidly changing landscape of emerging standards. In addition, telecommunications carriers increasingly require that VoIP products be designed to meet local homologation and regulatory requirements, such as lawful interception and other requirements to demonstrate interoperability with existing networks of incumbent telecommunications carriers, each of which may have different specifications. Failure to obtain such homologation certifications or other industry standard certifications for our products may result in decreased revenues and significant warranty, support and repair costs, which may divert the attention of our engineering personnel and may cause significant customer relations problems. Due to the fact that we have been developing and offering new products, some of which are targeted at new customers in new markets, we have encountered and expect to continue to encounter various challenges. In addition, while seeking midsize carriers, we offer solutions to alternative small carriers as well, raising the need for flexibility and competitiveness within a wide range of solutions. Also, our solutions have to be inter-operable with offerings of various third parties, which results in a more complex and expensive development and upgrading of the products. Furthermore, in recent years we have witnessed an increasing competition in the VoIP market, resulting in declining prices, as VoIP has become more of a mainstream technology. One of the main challenges in penetrating the market with the products offered by VocalTec relates to the ability to provide a broad, and to a certain extent complete, solution, which includes third party elements. Therefore, there is no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining and maintaining a sufficient market share for the existing Essentra products and our future products. OUR BUSINESS DEPENDS TO A CERTAIN EXTENT ON THE ABILITY OF OUR CHANNELS AND BUSINESS PARTNERS WHO PURCHASE OUR PRODUCTS TO ACHIEVE BROAD MARKET ACCEPTANCE FOR THEIR PRODUCTS. IF THESE CHANNELS AND BUSINESS PARTNERS DO NOT SUCCEED IN SELLING THEIR PRODUCTS, THIS WILL REDUCE DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS AND OUR REVENUES WILL BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. In many cases our products are sold through channels, i.e., vendors, systems integrators and business partners, who repackage or resell our products, under varying types of OEM or reseller arrangements, to communications service providers (rather than us selling our products directly to these service providers). 12 To continue this method of sales, we will have to allocate resources to train vendors, systems integrators and business partners as to the use of our products, resulting in additional costs and additional time until sales by such vendors, systems integrators and business partners are made feasible. Our business depends to a certain extent upon the success of such channels and the broad market acceptance of their products. To the extent that our channels are unsuccessful in selling our products, our revenues and operating results will be adversely affected. Many factors out of our control could interfere with our ability to market, license, implement or support our products with any of our channels, which in turn could harm our business. These factors include, but are not limited to, a change in the business strategy of our channels, the introduction of competitive product offerings by other companies that are sold through one or more of our channels, potential contract defaults by one or more of our channels or changes in ownership or management of one or more of our channels. Some of our competitors may have stronger relationships with our channels than we do, and we have limited control, if any, as to whether those channels implement our products rather than our competitors' products or whether they devote resources to market and support our competitors' products rather than our offerings. Also, the loss of or reduction in sales by these channels could reduce our revenues. If we fail to maintain relationships with these channels, fail to develop new channels, fail to effectively manage, train, or provide incentives to existing channels or if these channels are not successful in their sales efforts, sales of our products may decrease and our operating results would suffer. OUR ESSENTRA PRODUCTS GENERALLY HAVE A LONG SALES CYCLE, WHICH INCREASES OUR COSTS IN OBTAINING ORDERS, REDUCES THE PREDICTABILITY OF OUR EARNINGS AND REQUIRES SIGNIFICANT WORKING CAPITAL. Our Essentra products are technologically complex and are typically intended for use in solutions that may be critical to the business of our customers. Prospective customers for such products generally must make a significant commitment of resources to test and evaluate products and to integrate them into their solutions. As a result, the sales process for such products is long and often subject to delays associated with lengthy approval processes that typically accompany the design and testing of our solutions. The sales cycles of our products to new customers currently average 6 to 12 months from the time we make a proposal to a customer until the time the customer begins using the relevant product in production mode. This requires us to invest significant resources to make sales, which increases our costs in obtaining orders and reduces the predictability of our sales. In addition, in some cases we need to finance the equipment that we install in our customers' premises during the period of installment, testing and approval of the equipment, which requires us to allocate working capital for the period of such financing. Furthermore, in many cases the sale of our products is conditioned upon a trial period during which the products are installed at the customers' premises, which installation requires an investment by us of capital and manpower, without assurance that the customers will in fact purchase the products. Long sales cycles also subject us to risks not usually encountered by companies whose products have short sales cycles, complicating our planning processes and reducing the predictability of our earnings. These risks include: o a pre-sale process that includes traveling, demonstrations, technical and commercial sessions, and trial procedure intended for defining customers' needs, all of which involve additional costs; 13 o the potential cancellation of orders based on our customers` changing budgetary constraints; o the shift in orders expected between quarters because of the timing of our customers` procurement decisions; and o Changes in organizational structure and decision makers within our customers necessitating that we establish new relationships and effectively restart the sales process. BECAUSE MANY OF OUR CURRENT AND PLANNED PRODUCTS ARE HIGHLY COMPLEX, THEY MAY CONTAIN DEFECTS OR ERRORS THAT ARE DETECTED ONLY AFTER DEPLOYMENT IN COMMERCIAL APPLICATIONS. MOREOVER, OUR CUSTOMERS MAY BUNDLE OUR PRODUCTS WITH THE PRODUCTS OF OTHER PROVIDERS THAT CONTAIN DEFECTS THAT ARE WHOLLY UNRELATED TO OUR PRODUCTS. IN EITHER INSTANCE, IF THIS OCCURS, IT COULD HARM OUR REPUTATION AND RESULT IN REDUCED REVENUES OR INCREASED EXPENSES. Our products are highly complex and may contain undetected defects, errors or failures. These products are deployed in complex and versatile networks, which include complex equipment of other vendors. Although we invest heavily in testing our products, we cannot simulate and test all potential events and cases relating to the operation of our products, and as a result, in some cases our customers may discover errors after the products have been deployed. The occurrence of any defects, errors or failures could result in: o product returns, repairs or replacements; o cancellation of and reduction in orders; o uncollectible accounts receivable and delays in collecting accounts receivable; o diversion of our resources; o legal actions by our customers or our customers' end users; o adverse effect to our reputation; o increased insurance costs; and o other losses to us, our customers or the end users of our products. Any of these occurrences could also result in the loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products and loss of sales, which would harm our business and adversely affect our results of operations. There can be no assurance that, despite testing by us or by our customers, errors will not be found in our products after commencement of commercial deployment. We have from time to time experienced defects in our products and expect to experience defects in the future. We may in the future incur costs associated with warranty claims. Moreover, as our solutions grow in complexity this risk may intensify over time and may result in increased expenses. In addition, our customers may bundle, incorporate or connect our products into or to complex systems that contain errors or defects that may be unrelated to our products. Such occurrences may result in undue delays or cancellations of the implementation of our customers' bundled products and services. In such cases, our reputation could be harmed and our results of operations could be adversely affected, which could result in reduced revenues or increased expenses. 14 IF OUR RELATIONSHIP WITH ANY OF OUR KEY CUSTOMERS IS TERMINATED, OUR REVENUES WILL DECLINE AND OUR BUSINESS WILL BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. During 2007, Mobifon-2000 and Deutsche Telekom accounted for 12% and 22%, respectively, of our revenues. If our relationship with these customers is terminated, or if either of these key customers reduces purchases of our products or maintenance or replaces an existing equipment in its networks with competing products, then our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. In the past we were adversely affected by the termination of a relationship with a key customer, as well as reductions in orders from key customers. The impact of the termination or reduction of our key customer relationships would be intensified if we were unable to establish and increase sales to other customers in order to offset this termination or reduction. WE DEPEND TO A CERTAIN DEGREE ON THIRD PARTIES FOR THE SUPPLY AND QUALITY OF HARDWARE AND SOFTWARE ELEMENTS REQUIRED FOR THE MARKETING OF OUR PRODUCTS, AND ANY DELAY OR DISRUPTION IN THE SUPPLY OF THESE PRODUCTS WILL ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS. IN ADDITION, INACCURATE ESTIMATES OF OUR INVENTORY / PURCHASING REQUIREMENTS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. As many times our customers require from us a "complete solution", that comprises, in addition to our Essentra Software, various third party elements, we depend on such third-party partners for the successful marketing of our products, (including IBM, Dialogic, AudioCodes, and various other suppliers for Operating System software, SIP and SS7 software, as well as additional software and other elements). If we overestimate our purchasing requirements, we could have excess inventory, which would increase our costs and result in write-downs harming our operating results. If we underestimate our requirements, we may not have an adequate supply, which could result in delays in shipments and revenues. We currently do not have long-term supply contracts with our third-party suppliers and they are not required to supply us with products for any specified periods, in any specified quantities or at any set price, except as may be specified in a particular purchase order. Because the key components of our products are complex and often require integration into our solutions, in the event of a disruption or delay in supply or an inability to obtain products, we may not be able to develop an alternate source in a timely manner, at favorable prices, or at all. Following the sale and installation of our products, we rely on our hardware and software suppliers (to varying extents) for maintenance and support services that we provide to our customers. To that end, our agreements with our suppliers include obligations of our suppliers to provide us with certain levels of service and maintenance, as well as restrictions on the right of the supplier to discontinue the product or the support services we purchase from them. 15 In addition, manufacturing problems may occur with these third parties. A supplier may supply us with products and components that do not meet our quality, quantity or cost requirement, or may cease to provide support with respect to the hardware and software purchased by the Company; therefore, we face the risk of inadequate supply, price increases, late deliveries, poor quality and failure in the availability and level of support and maintenance, as any supplier may terminate its relationship with us. If we were to lose our relationship with any of such suppliers, the lead time required to qualify new suppliers could be several months. Also, if we lose our relationship with any of such suppliers or these suppliers are otherwise unable to satisfy our volume and delivery schedule requirements, it may be difficult to locate alternative suppliers that are able to develop, manufacture, deliver and provide products, service and maintenance with respect to the specialized components we need for our products in the desired lead times and quality. Furthermore, if we experience quality problems from any of our component suppliers, it could take us a significant amount of time to identify the problem as associated with a particular component, ascertain whether this is as a result of a design or a manufacturing flaw and either correct the problem, if possible, replace the components or find an alternate source of supply. Any such quality problem or delay could, in addition to causing us lost sales, detrimentally affect our reputation in the market and cause us to incur additional costs as a result of the recall and replacement of affected products. Finally, our dependence on third party suppliers of hardware significantly limits our ability to compete successfully with some of our competitors, which supply themselves the hardware components that are used in their solutions and therefore have the flexibility of making more competitive offers to potential customers. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO ADEQUATELY PROTECT OUR PROPRIETARY RIGHTS, WHICH MAY LIMIT OUR ABILITY TO COMPETE EFFECTIVELY. Our success is dependent, to a significant extent, upon our proprietary technology. We currently rely on a combination of trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark law, together with non-disclosure, contractual licensing restrictions, and invention assignment agreements, to establish and protect the proprietary rights and technology used in our products. There can be no assurance, however, that such measures will provide commercially significant protection for our proprietary technology, that competitors will not develop products with features based upon, or otherwise similar to, our products or that we will be able to prevent competitors from selling similar products. Specifically, our ability to adequately protect our proprietary rights in Ukraine (where a portion of our research and development operations is outsourced to subcontractors) is unclear due to the political instability in such country and the fact that the protection of intellectual properties in eastern European countries has traditionally been difficult to achieve. In addition, the software market has traditionally experienced widespread unauthorized reproduction of products in violation of manufacturers' intellectual property rights. Such activity is difficult to detect and legal proceedings to enforce the manufacturers' intellectual property rights are often burdensome and involve a high degree of uncertainty and costs. Unauthorized use and reproduction of the registration codes contained in our various software products has occurred from time to time and may continue to occur in the future. There can be no assurance that our software products will not experience unauthorized use or reproduction on a massive scale, which may result in an adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. OUR MANAGEMENT HAS IDENTIFIED A MATERIAL WEAKNESS IN OUR INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING. UNTIL WE REMEDY SUCH MATERIAL WEAKNESS, THERE IS A REASONABLE POSSIBILITY THAT OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MAY BE MATERIALLY MISTATED. As disclosed in detail in Item 15T of this annual report, our management performed an assessment of our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of the period covered by this annual report and determined that we had a material weakness with respect to the financial statement close process. Until we are able to remedy such material weakness or if we are not successful in remedying such material weakness, there is a reasonable possibility that our quarterly or annual financial statements could be materially misstated, which could require a restatement and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. This could lead to a decrease in the price of our shares. In addition, if we fail to implement the improvements of our system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our future financial results and our management may not be able to conclude that we have effective disclosure controls and procedures and effective internal controls over financial reporting as required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. 16 WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO ENFORCE AGAINST OUR EMPLOYEES AND SUBCONTRACTORS COVENANTS NOT TO COMPETE AND THEREFORE MAY BE UNABLE TO PREVENT OUR COMPETITORS FROM BENEFITING FROM THE EXPERTISE OF SOME OF OUR FORMER EMPLOYEES AND SUBCONTRACTORS. We currently have non-competition clauses in the employment agreements of nearly all of our employees, including all of our key employees. The provisions of such clauses prohibit our employees, if they cease working for us, from directly competing with us or working for our competitors. Recently, Israeli courts have required employers, seeking to enforce non-compete undertakings against former employees, to demonstrate that the competitive activities of the former employees will cause harm to one of a limited number of material interests of the employer recognized by the courts (for example, the confidentiality of certain commercial information or a company's trade secrets). In the event that any of our employees chooses to work for one of our competitors, we may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise our former employees obtained from us, if we cannot demonstrate to the court that we would be harmed. Additionally, our ability to enforce non-compete covenants against our sub-contractors in Ukraine, where we conduct a portion of our research and development operations, is unclear. LITIGATION AND OTHER DISPUTES REGARDING OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY OR THE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY OF OUR SUPPLIERS COULD PROVE COSTLY AND THEREBY ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR FINANCIAL POSITION AND COULD ALSO RESULT IN AN INJUNCTION OR JUDGMENT AGAINST US, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Third parties have asserted patent infringement and other claims against us from time to time. A number of these claims were directed at certain basic and fundamental components of our products. There can be no assurance that third parties will not assert such claims against us in the future or that such present and future claims will not be successful. In addition, third parties may in the future assert patent infringement and other claims against us in connection with components used in our products that are manufactured by our suppliers. Patents relating to basic technologies in the communications and multimedia areas have been recently allowed and patents may be filed in the future which relate to basic technologies incorporated in our products. Also, from time to time there have been claims challenging the ownership of open source software against companies that incorporate open source software into their products. We use certain open source software in our products and may use more open source software in the future. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software. We would incur substantial costs and would experience diversion of management resources with respect to the defense of any claims relating to proprietary rights, and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, parties making such claims could secure a judgment awarding substantial damages, as well as injunctive or other equitable relief which could effectively block our ability to make, use, sell, distribute or otherwise license our products in the United States or any other jurisdiction. Such a judgment could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Litigation, which is generally costly and time consuming, may be necessary to determine the scope and validity of others' proprietary rights or to enforce any patents issued to us, in judicial or administrative proceedings. In the event a claim relating to proprietary technology or information is asserted against us, we may seek licenses for such intellectual property. There can be no assurance, however, that licenses could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, or that the terms of any offered licenses will be acceptable to us. The failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights could preclude the sale, manufacture or distribution of our products and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The cost of responding to any such claim may be material, whether or not the assertion of such claim is valid. 17 IF THE SALE OF 11 OF OUR PATENTS IS NOT CONSUMMATED, WE MAY REQUIRE SIGNIFICANT CAPITAL TO PURSUE OUR GROWTH STRATEGY, BUT WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO OBTAIN ADDITIONAL FINANCING ON FAVORABLE TERMS OR AT ALL. ANY FINANCING OBTAINED BY US MAY CAUSE DILUTION TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS OR IMPOSE ON US CERTAIN RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS On May 27, 2008, we announced that we entered into an agreement for the sale of 11 of our patents for an aggregate consideration (before the payment of expenses) of US$12.5 million. Consummation of this transaction is subject to certain conditions. If this transaction is not consummated, we will need to obtain additional financing to pursue our business strategy, to develop new products, to respond to competition and market opportunities and to acquire complementary businesses or technologies. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain such financing on favorable terms or at all. If we raise additional capital through further sales of our equity securities, our shareholders would suffer dilution of their equity ownership in the Company. If we raise additional capital through the issuance of debt, we may not be able to comply with covenants assumed by us pursuant to such debt issuance, which may cause an acceleration of the repayment of the debt amount. ANY FUTURE MERGERS WITH OR ACQUISITIONS OF COMPANIES OR TECHNOLOGIES AND THE RESULTING INTEGRATION PROCESS MAY DISTRACT THE ATTENTION OF OUR MANAGEMENT AND DISRUPT OUR BUSINESS. In recent years, the telecommunications market has experienced consolidation. One of our business strategies is to pursue strategic partnerships, alliances, mergers and/or acquisitions of complementary businesses, products and technologies. Pursuit of such strategies requires significant investments in management time and attention, and we have limited experience in the consummation of strategic partnerships, alliances, mergers and acquisitions and in the post-transaction integration. Mergers with or acquisitions of companies involve a number of risks including the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of the merged or acquired companies and of maintaining uniform standards, controls and policies. There can be no assurance that technology or rights acquired by us will be incorporated successfully into products we introduce or market, that such products will achieve market acceptance or that we will not encounter other problems in connection with such acquisitions. Such acquisitions may expose us to additional risks, including the following: - we may find that the acquired company, asset or technology does not further our business strategy, that we overpaid for the company, asset or technology or that the economic conditions underlying our acquisition decision have changed; - we may have difficulty retaining the key personnel of the acquired company; 18 - our ongoing business and management's attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing geographically or culturally diverse enterprises; and - we may experience significant problems or liabilities associated with product quality, technology and legal contingencies relating to the acquired business or technology, such as intellectual property or employment matters. In addition, if we proceed with one or more significant acquisitions or investments in which the consideration includes cash, we are likely to be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash. To the extent we issue securities as consideration in such acquisitions, existing shareholders might be diluted and earnings per share might decrease. In addition, acquisitions and investments may result in the incurrence of debt, large one-time write-offs, such as acquired in-process research and development costs, and restructuring charges. WE MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED IF THE EXCHANGE RATE FLUCTUATIONS DECREASE OUR EARNINGS AND IF WE ARE NOT ABLE TO HEDGE OUR CURRENCY EXCHANGE RISKS EFFECTIVELY. A significant portion of our sales are made outside of Israel in Unites States Dollars (USD) and we incur a significant portion of our expenses in New Israeli Shekels (NIS). The cost of our operations in Israel, as expressed in USD, is influenced by the extent to which any increase in the rate of inflation is not offset by the devaluation of the NIS in relation to the USD. Inflation in Israel may have the effect of increasing the USD cost of our operations in Israel. If the USD declines in value in relation to the NIS, it will become more expensive for us to fund our operations in Israel. During 2005 the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar to the NIS increased; this trend reversed in 2006, and continued to further decrease in 2007 and subsequently in 2008. WE ARE SUBJECT TO STRONG COMPETITION. ACCEPTANCE OF OUR COMPETITORS' PRODUCTS AND TECHNOLOGIES COULD RESULT IN REDUCED REVENUES OR GROSS MARGINS. The competition in the VoIP equipment for the communications market is very strong. Our competitors include several VoIP equipment vendors. Many of our competitors are larger than we are, and can offer more comprehensive solutions either on their own or by partnering with others. In addition, many of our competitors have greater name recognition, larger installed customer bases, broader product offerings, and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Finally, some of these competitors are not dependent, as we are, on third parties for the supply and quality of components required for the operation of their products. Such competition may result in a reduction in prices. Even if we reduce the prices of our products, there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully and effectively for deals against our competitors' product offerings. Furthermore, if we reduce our prices below current levels due to competition, our operating losses may increase. In the future, additional competitors may include companies that currently provide computer software products and services, such as telephone, media and cable television. The ability of some of our competitors to bundle other enhanced services and other products with VoIP products could give these competitors an advantage over us. 19 WE ARE DEPENDENT UPON THE CONTINUED EMPLOYMENT OF KEY PERSONNEL. Our future success depends to a significant extent upon the continued active participation of our directors, senior executive officers, management members and other key employees. The loss of the services of any such person could have a material adverse effect on our business. These persons are not bound by employment agreements for any specific term. The loss of the services of any of these persons may adversely affect the development and sales of our products, and the management of our company. Our success is also dependent upon our continuing ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel and key engineers and sales and marketing personnel, to perform research and development, commercialize products, and perform the sales and marketing functions required to bring these products to the market. There can be no assurance that we will continue to attract and retain such personnel. Even if we are successful in hiring additional qualified sales and engineering personnel, we will incur additional costs and our operating results, including our gross margin, may be adversely affected. OUR INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS EXPOSE US TO THE RISKS INHERENT IN CONDUCTING BUSINESS IN INTERNATIONAL MARKETS. The majority of our sales is in international markets. In addition, a small, but growing portion of our research and development operations is outsourced to subcontractors in Ukraine. There are certain risks inherent in conducting business in international markets, including unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, export restrictions, homologation certifications, tariffs and other trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, longer payment cycles, credit-worthiness of potential customers, and political instability, all of which can adversely impact the success of our international operations. There can be no assurance that one or more of such factors will not have a material adverse effect on our international operations and, consequently, on our business, financial condition and results of operations. OUR PRINCIPAL SHAREHOLDERS, INCLUDING OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS, ARE ABLE TO INFLUENCE MATTERS REQUIRING SHAREHOLDER APPROVAL. As of July 10, 2008 our principal shareholders (i.e., holders of more than 10% of our issued and outstanding share capital), together with our directors and executive officers, beneficially owned approximately 54.7% of our outstanding ordinary shares (including options that are exercisable on such date or within 60 days thereafter). As a result, such shareholders together have the ability to significantly influence the election of our directors and most corporate actions, including the ability to vote against merger and acquisitions, which other shareholders of the Company may believe to be beneficial to the shareholders. CERTAIN PROVISIONS OF OUR ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION AND ISRAELI LAW COULD DELAY, HINDER OR PREVENT A CHANGE IN OUR CONTROL. Our articles of association contain provisions, which could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if that change would be beneficial to our shareholders. Specifically, our articles of association provide that our board of directors is divided into three classes, each serving a three-year term. In addition, certain provisions of the Israeli Companies Law of 1999, or the Companies Law, could also delay or otherwise make more difficult a change in our control. The provisions of the Companies Law relating to mergers and acquisitions are discussed in greater detail in "ITEM 10 - Additional Information". 20 IT MAY BE DIFFICULT TO PURSUE AN ACTION IN THE U.S. OR TO ENFORCE A U.S. JUDGMENT, INCLUDING ACTIONS OR JUDGMENTS BASED UPON THE CIVIL LIABILITY PROVISIONS OF THE U.S. FEDERAL SECURITIES LAWS, AGAINST US AND OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS, OR TO ASSERT U.S. SECURITIES LAWS CLAIMS IN ISRAEL. Most of our directors and officers are not residents of the United States and most of their assets and our assets are located outside the United States. Without consent to service of process, additional procedures may be necessary to serve individuals who are not U.S. residents. Therefore, it may be difficult to serve process on those directors, officers who are not U.S. residents, in order to commence any lawsuit against them before a U.S. court, including an action based on the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities laws. An investor also may find it difficult to enforce a U.S. court judgment in an Israeli court, including a judgment based on federal securities laws. In accordance with the Israeli Law on Enforcement of Foreign Judgments, 5718-1958, and subject to certain time limitations, an Israeli court may declare a foreign civil judgment enforceable only if it finds that: o the judgment was rendered by a court which was, according to the laws of the state of the court, competent to render the judgment; o the judgment may no longer be appealed; o the obligation imposed by the judgment is enforceable according to the rules relating to the enforceability of judgments in Israel and the substance of the judgment is not contrary to public policy; and o the judgment is executory in the state in which it was given. Even if these conditions are satisfied, an Israeli court will not enforce a foreign judgment if it was given in a state whose laws do not provide for the enforcement of judgments of Israeli courts (subject to exceptional cases) or if its enforcement is likely to prejudice the sovereignty or security of the State of Israel. An Israeli court will also not declare a foreign judgment enforceable if: o the judgment was obtained by fraud; o there is a finding of lack of due process; o the judgment was rendered by a court not competent to render it according to the laws of private international law in Israel; o the judgment is in conflict with another judgment that was given in the same matter between the same parties and that is still valid; or o at the time the action was instituted in the foreign court, a suit in the same matter and between the same parties was pending before a court or tribunal in Israel. An investor may also find it difficult to bring an original action in an Israeli court to enforce liabilities based upon the U.S. federal securities laws against us, or against our directors and officers. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws and rule that Israel is not the most appropriate forum in which to bring such a claim. In addition, even if an Israeli court agrees to hear such a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process. 21 OUR UNITED STATES INVESTORS COULD SUFFER ADVERSE TAX CONSEQUENCES IF WE ARE CHARACTERIZED AS A PASSIVE FOREIGN INVESTMENT COMPANY. As more fully described in "ITEM 10 - Additional Information - Taxation and Government Programs", we could be characterized, for United States federal income tax purposes, as a passive foreign investment company ("PFIC"). Such characterization could result in adverse United States tax consequences to U.S. Holders (as defined in "ITEM 10 - Additional Information - Taxation and Government Programs"). Our status as a PFIC could cause, among other things, any gain recognized on the sale or disposition of our ordinary shares to be treated as ordinary income for U.S. Holders and to potential adverse tax treatment of certain distributions. Although we do not believe that we should have been characterized as a PFIC for any tax year through and including 2007, there can be no assurance that the United States Internal Revenue Service will agree with this conclusion. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will not be a PFIC in the future. We are not yet able to determine whether we will be a PFIC in 2008 and we can give no assurance that we will not be a PFIC in 2008. Because the determination of whether our ordinary shares constitute shares of a PFIC is determined annually based upon the composition of the Company's income and assets, including the income and assets of certain entities in which we hold at least a 25% interest, we cannot determine whether we will become a PFIC in the future and it is possible that we may be a PFIC in 2008 or may will become a PFIC in the future. While we will attempt to manage our business so as to avoid PFIC status, to the extent consistent with its other business goals, we cannot predict whether our business plans will allow us to avoid PFIC status or whether our business plans will change in a manner that affects our PFIC determination. In addition, because the market price of our ordinary shares may affect the determination of whether we will be considered a PFIC, fluctuations in market price may themselves impact our PFIC status. U.S. Holders should consult their own advisers concerning the U.S. federal income tax consequences that would apply if the Company is a PFIC and certain U.S. federal income tax elections that may help to minimize adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. For a further discussion of the consequences of our possible PFIC status, please refer to "ITEM 10 - Additional Information - Taxation and Government Programs" CERTAIN BENEFITS AVAILABLE TO US FROM ISRAELI GOVERNMENT PROGRAMS MAY BE DISCONTINUED OR REDUCED AT ANY TIME, WHICH WOULD LIKELY INCREASE OUR NET RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSES. We benefit from participation by the Office of the Chief Scientist of the State of Israel (the "Chief Scientist" or "OCS") in certain of our research and development projects. To be eligible for these participations, we must continue to meet certain conditions. There can be no assurance that such participations will be continued at their current levels or otherwise. The termination or reduction of the participation of the Chief Scientist in research and development projects is likely to increase our net research and development expenses or limit or terminate certain research and development projects. In addition, our royalty payment obligation towards the OCS will continue even if we receive no additional, or reduced, grants from the Chief Scientist. THE GRANTS WE HAVE RECEIVED FROM THE ISRAELI GOVERNMENT FOR CERTAIN RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENDITURES RESTRICT OUR ABILITY TO MANUFACTURE PRODUCTS AND TRANSFER TECHNOLOGIES OUTSIDE OF ISRAEL AND REQUIRE US TO SATISFY SPECIFIED CONDITIONS. IF WE FAIL TO SATISFY THESE CONDITIONS, WE MAY BE REQUIRED TO REFUND GRANTS PREVIOUSLY RECEIVED TOGETHER WITH INTEREST AND PENALTIES. Our research and development efforts have been financed, in part, through grants that we have received from the Chief Scientist. We, therefore, must comply with the requirements of the Israeli Law for the Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development, 1984 and related regulations, or the Research Law. Under the Research Law, the discretionary approval of an OCS committee is required for any transfer of technology or manufacturing of products developed with OCS funding. OCS approval is not required for the export of any products resulting from the research or development. There is no assurance that we would receive the required approvals for any proposed transfer. Such approvals, if granted, may be subject to the following additional restrictions: 22 o we could be required to pay the OCS a portion of the consideration we receive upon any transfer of such technology to an entity that is not Israeli. Among the factors that may be taken into account by the OCS in calculating the payment amount are the scope of the support received, the royalties that were paid by us, the amount of time that elapsed between the date on which the know-how was transferred and the date on which the grants were received, as well as the sale price; and o the transfer of manufacturing rights could be conditioned upon an increase in the royalty rate and payment of increased aggregate royalties and payment of interest on the grant amount. These restrictions may impair our ability to sell our company, technology assets or to outsource manufacturing outside of Israel. The restrictions will continue to apply even after we have repaid the full amount of royalties payable for the grants. POLITICAL, ECONOMIC AND MILITARY CONDITIONS IN DOMESTIC OR FOREIGN LOCATIONS, INCLUDING ISRAEL, COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS. Most of our operations are conducted in the State of Israel. Although virtually all of our sales currently are made to customers outside Israel, we are nonetheless directly influenced by the political, economic, military and other conditions in and around Israel and in other countries in which our business is located or in which our products are sold. In addition, any major hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions or results of operations. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel may directly affect our business. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have occurred between Israel and its Arab neighbors. During the summer of 2006, Israel was engaged in an armed conflict with Hezbollah, a Lebanese Islamist Shiite militia group and political party. This conflict involved missile strikes against civilian targets in northern Israel, and negatively affected business conditions in Israel. Although Israel has entered into various agreements with Egypt, Jordan and the Palestinian Authority, there has been an increase in unrest and terrorist activity, which began in September 2000 and has continued with varying levels of severity into 2008. The election in 2006 of representatives of the Hamas movement to a majority of seats in the Palestinian Legislative Council and the tension between the different Palestinian fractions may create additional unrest and uncertainty. Furthermore, several countries, principally in the Middle East, still restrict doing business with Israel and Israeli companies, and additional countries may impose restrictions on doing business with Israel and Israeli companies if hostilities in Israel increase. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel, could adversely affect our operations and product development, cause our revenues to decrease and adversely affect the share price of publicly traded companies having operations in Israel, such as us. 23 SOME OF OUR MANAGEMENT AND EMPLOYEES ARE OBLIGATED TO PERFORM MILITARY RESERVE DUTY. Generally, all non-exempt male adult citizens and permanent residents of Israel under the age of 40 (or older, for citizens with certain occupations), and many of our Israeli male employees are obligated to perform annual military reserve duty, usually up to a period of one month. Additionally, all such persons are subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. In the event of severe unrest or other conflict, individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. In response to increases in terrorist activity, including armed conflicts, there have been periods of significant call-ups of military reservists. Although we have operated effectively under these circumstances since we began operations, no assessment can be made as to the full impact of these requirements on our workforce or business if conditions should change, and we cannot predict the effect on us of any expansion of these obligations. WE MAY NOT BE DEEMED IN COMPLIANCE WITH NASDAQ LISTING REQUIREMENTS IN ORDER TO MAINTAIN THE LISTING OF OUR SHARES ON NASDAQ CAPITAL MARKET On February 5, 2008, the Nasdaq Capital Market sent us a Staff Deficiency Letter, indicating that we have failed to comply with the minimum bid price requirement for continued listing set forth in Nasdaq's Marketplace Rule 4320(e)(2)(E)(ii). The letter provided that we have until August 4, 2008 to regain compliance, i.e., that the bid price of our shares will close at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days during the period ending on August 4, 2008. If we are not in compliance with such rule by August 4, 2008, then we may be afforded a second 180 calendar day grace period provided that we satisfy the Nasdaq Capital Market's Initial listing criteria (except for the bid price requirement), as set forth in Marketplace Rule 4320(e)(2)(E)(ii). We cannot assure you that we will timely, or at all, comply with the Nasdaq listing requirements. If we fail to be in compliance with the Nasdaq listing requirements, our shares will be de-listed from the Nasdaq Capital Market, resulting in the loss of liquidity to our shareholders and potentially an adverse effect to the price of our shares. 