Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company's business, operating results, financial condition, liquidity, and cash flow may be impacted by numerous factors, including but not limited to those discussed below. These items may cause the Company's results to vary materially from recent results. Interest Rate Risk The Company's earnings, financial condition and liquidity are susceptible to fluctuations in market interest rates. Net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and interest paid on deposits and borrowings, is the largest component of the Company's total revenues. The level of net interest income is dependent upon the volume and mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, the level of nonperforming assets, and the level and trend of interest rates. Changes in market interest rates will also affect the level of prepayments on the Company's loans and payments on mortgage-backed securities, resulting in the receipt of proceeds that may be reinvested at a lower rate than the loan or mortgage-backed security being prepaid. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including: inflation, economic growth, employment levels, monetary policy and international markets. Significant fluctuations in interest rates could have a material adverse affect on the Company's earnings, financial condition, and liquidity. The Company manages interest rate risk using income simulation to measure interest rate risk inherent in its on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments at a given point in time by showing the potential effect of interest rate shifts on net interest income for future periods. Each quarter the Company's Asset/Liability Management Committee reviews the simulation results to determine whether the exposure of net interest income to changes in interest rates remains within board-approved levels. The Committee also discusses strategies to manage this exposure and incorporates these strategies into the investment and funding decisions of the Company. In addition, the Company has focused on expanding its fee-based business as a percentage of revenues to help mitigate its exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. For additional information about how the Company manages its interest rate risk, refer to Part II, Item 7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" of this Report. Credit Risk The Company's business of originating and underwriting loans involves credit risk, which is the risk of loss of principal or interest because borrowers, guarantors and related parties fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loan agreements. The Company has adopted comprehensive credit policies, underwriting standards and loan review procedures and maintains a reserve for loan/lease losses to mitigate credit losses. The Company reviews the adequacy of its reserve for loan/lease losses on a regular basis to ensure that the reserve is adequate to cover the estimated loss exposure in its portfolio. Management believes that it has established policies and procedures that are appropriate to mitigate the risk of loss. Nonetheless, these policies and procedures may not prevent unexpected losses that could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. See Part II, Item 7, "Loans/Leases" and "The Reserve for Loan/Lease Losses" of this Report for further discussion of the lending portfolio and the reserve for loan/lease losses. 5 Government Laws and Regulations The Company is subject to extensive state and federal laws and regulations, supervision, and legislation that affect how it conducts its business. The majority of these laws and regulations are for the protection of consumers, depositors and the deposit insurance funds. Any changes to state and federal banking laws and regulations may negatively impact the Company's ability to expand services and to increase shareholder value. There can also be significant cost related to compliance with various laws and regulations. The Company has established an extensive internal control structure to ensure compliance with governing laws and regulations, including those related to financial reporting. Refer to "Supervision and Regulation" for additional information on laws and regulations. The Federal Reserve's monetary policies also affect the Company's operating results and financial condition. These policies, which include open market operations in U.S. Government securities, changes in the discount rate on member bank borrowings, and changes in reserve requirements against member bank deposits, can have a major effect upon the source and cost of funds and the rates of return earned on loans and investments. The Company is subject to state and federal tax laws and regulations. Changes to these regulations could impact future tax expense and the value of deferred tax assets. Article 32 of the New York State Tax Law, which sets forth the taxation of financial institutions, expired at year-end 2005. The fiscal 2007 budget for New York proposes to make Article 32 permanent, and also proposes a change in the tax treatment for real estate investment trusts (REIT), and a reduction in the State tax rate for financial institutions to 6.5%. Each of the Company's banking subsidiaries is a majority owner in a REIT. If the proposed change is passed in its current form, the expected impact on the Company would be an increased tax expense of approximately $632,000. Competition Competition for commercial banking and other financial services is strong in the Company's market areas. The deregulation of the banking industry and the widespread enactment of state laws that permit multi-bank holding companies, as well as an increasing level of interstate banking, have created a highly competitive environment for commercial banking. In one or more aspects of its business, the Company's subsidiaries compete with other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, brokerage and investment banking companies, and other financial intermediaries. Some of these competitors have substantially greater resources and lending capabilities and may offer services that the Company does not currently provide. In addition, many of the Company's non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive Federal regulations that govern financial holding companies and Federally insured banks. The Company focuses on providing unparalleled customer service, which includes offering a strong suite of products and services. Economic Conditions General economic conditions have an impact on the banking industry. The Company's operating results depend on providing products and services to customers in our local market areas. Unemployment rates, real estate values, demographic changes, property tax rates, and local and state governments have an impact on local and regional economic conditions. An increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values, an increase in property tax rates, or a decrease in population could weaken the local economies in which the Company operates. Weak economic conditions could lead to credit quality concerns related to repayment ability and collateral protection. The Company operates in three primary market areas which mitigates the impact on local economic conditions and has focused on providing a full suite of products to increase its fee based business as a percentage of total revenues. Operational Risk The Company is subject to certain operational risks, including, but not limited to, data processing system failures and errors, customer or employee fraud and catastrophic failures resulting from terrorist acts or natural disasters. The Company depends upon data processing, software, communication, and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks and over the Internet. Despite instituted safeguards, the Company cannot be certain that all of its systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack or other technological difficulties or failures. If information security is breached or other technology difficulties or failures occur, information may be lost or misappropriated, services and operations may be interrupted and the Company could be exposed to claims from customers. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. The Company maintains a system of internal controls to mitigate against such occurrences and maintains insurance coverage for exposures that are insurable. The Company periodically tests internal controls to ensure that they are appropriate and functioning as designed. Technological Development and Changes The financial services industry is subject to rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology driven products and services. In addition to improving the Company's ability to serve customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiencies and helps to maintain or reduce expenses. The Company's ability to keep pace with technological changes affecting the financial industry and to introduce new products and services based on this new technology will be important to the Company's continued success. 6 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 