Item 1A. Risk Factors. RISK FACTORS Our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially adversely affected by any of the following risks as well as the other risks highlighted elsewhere in this document, particularly the discussions about regulation, competition and intellectual property. The trading price of our Class B common stock and common stock could decline due to any of these risks. Risks Related to Our Telecommunications Businesses Each of our telecommunications lines of business is highly sensitive to declining prices, which may adversely affect our revenues and margins. The worldwide telecommunications industry has been characterized in recent years by intense price competition, which has resulted in declines in both our average per-minute price realizations and our average per-minute termination costs, as well as decreases in our revenue. Many of our competitors continue to aggressively price their services. The intense competition has led to continued erosion in our pricing power, both in our prepaid services and wholesale markets, and we have generally had to pass along all or some of the savings we achieve on our per-minute costs to our customers in the form of lower prices. Any increase by us in pricing may result in our prices not being as attractive, which may result in a reduction of revenue. If these trends in pricing continue or increase, it could have a material adverse effect on the revenues generated by our telecommunications businesses and/or our gross margins. 17 Table of Contents Because our calling cards generate a significant portion of our revenue, our growth and our results of operations are substantially dependent upon growth in this business, and we continue to face significant competition in our calling card business which has adversely affected our revenue and profitability in recent years and may continue to adversely affect our revenue and profitability. Because of the significant percentage of our revenues generated by our prepaid products business, our results of operations and future growth significantly depend on the performance of our prepaid products business. We compete in the calling card market with many of the established facilities-based carriers, such as at&t and Verizon. These companies are substantially larger and have greater financial, technical, engineering, personnel and marketing resources, longer operating histories, greater name recognition and larger customer bases than we do. The use by these competitors of their resources in the calling card market could significantly impact our ability to compete against them successfully. In addition to these larger competitors, we face significant competition from smaller calling card providers, who from time-to-time offer rates that are substantially below our rates, and in some instances below what we believe to be the cost to provide the service, in order to gain market share. This type of pricing by one or more competitors can adversely affect our revenues, as they gain market share at our expense, and our gross margins, if we lower rates in order to better compete. The continued growth of the use of wireless services and Internet protocol-based services, largely due to lower pricing of such services, may have adversely affected the sales of our calling cards as customers migrate from using calling cards to using these alternative services. We expect pricing of wireless and IP-based services to continue to decrease, which may result in increased substitution and increased pricing pressure on our calling card sales and margins. If we are not able to increase or maintain our revenue and margins generated from calling cards sales, our overall results of operations could materially suffer. Further, if our competitors continue to utilize their greater resources or to operate at lower levels of profitability in order to more aggressively market their products and services, this significant portion of our business could be adversely affected. We may not be able to obtain sufficient or cost-effective termination capacity to particular destinations. Most of our telecommunications traffic is terminated through third-party providers. In order to support our minutes-of-use demands and geographic footprint, we may need to obtain additional termination capacity or destinations. We may not be able to obtain sufficient termination capacity from high-quality carriers to particular destinations or may have to pay significant amounts to obtain such capacity. This could result in our not being able to support our minutes-of-use demands or in a higher cost-per-minute to particular destinations, which could adversely affect our revenues and margins. The termination of our carrier agreements with foreign partners or our inability to enter into carrier agreements in the future could materially and adversely affect our ability to compete, which could reduce our revenues and profits. We rely upon our carrier agreements with foreign partners in order to provide our telecommunications services to our customers. These carrier agreements are for finite terms and, therefore, there can be no guarantee that these agreements will be renewed at all or on favorable terms to us. Our ability to compete would be adversely affected if our carrier agreements were terminated or we were unable to enter into carrier agreements in the future to provide our telecommunications services to our customers, which could result in a reduction of our revenues and profits. Our customers, particularly our wholesale carrier customers, could experience financial difficulties, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability if we experience difficulties in collecting our receivables. As a provider of international long distance services, we depend upon sales of transmission and termination of traffic to other long distance providers and the collection of receivables from these customers. The wholesale market continues to feature many smaller, less financially stable companies. If weakness in the telecommunications industry or the global economy reduces our ability to collect our accounts receivable from our major customers, particularly our wholesale carrier customers, our profitability may be substantially reduced. Moreover, the after effects of the most recent economic recession both in the United States and elsewhere may affect our customers’ access to liquidity and impair our ability to collect on receivables. While our most significant customers, from a revenue perspective, vary from quarter to quarter, our five largest wholesale carrier customers accounted for 5.8% of our total consolidated revenues from continuing operations in fiscal 2010 18 Table of Contents compared with 5.5% in fiscal 2009. This concentration of revenues increases our exposure to non-payment by our larger customers, and we may experience significant write-offs related to the provision of wholesale carrier services if any of our large customers fail to pay their outstanding balances, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Our revenues will continue to suffer if our distributors and sales representatives fail to effectively market and distribute our prepaid calling card products and other services. We currently rely on our distributors and representatives for marketing and distribution of our prepaid calling card products and other services. Our UTA subsidiary utilizes a network of several hundred sub-distributors that sell our prepaid calling cards to retail outlets throughout most of the United States. In foreign countries, we are dependent upon our distributors and independent sales representatives, many of which also sell services or products of other companies. As a result, we cannot control whether these foreign distributors and sales representatives will devote sufficient efforts to selling our services. In addition, we may not succeed in finding capable distributors, retailers and sales representatives in new markets that we may enter. If our distributors or sales representatives fail to effectively market or distribute our prepaid calling card products and other services, our ability to generate revenues and grow our customer base could be substantially impaired. Natural or man-made disasters could have an adverse effect on our technological infrastructure. Natural disasters, terrorist acts, acts of war, cyber attacks or other breaches of network or information technology security may cause equipment failures or disrupt our operations. Our inability to operate our telecommunications networks as a result of such events, even for a limited period of time, may result in significant expenses and/or loss of market share to other communications providers, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to IDT Energy The ESCO business is highly competitive, so we may be forced to cut prices or incur additional costs. IDT Energy faces substantial competition both from the traditional incumbent utilities as well as from other ESCOs, including ESCO affiliates of the utilities. As a result, we may be forced to reduce prices, incur increased costs or lose market share. We compete on the basis of provision of services, customer service and price. Present or future competitors may have greater financial, technical or other resources which could put us at a disadvantage. IDT Energy’s growth depends on its ability to enter new markets. New markets for our business are determined based on many factors, which include the regulatory environment, as well IDT Energy’s ability to effectuate commodity procurement on a real-time market basis. Once new markets are determined to be suitable for IDT Energy, we will incur significant customer acquisition costs and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in new markets. Unfair business practices by competitors may adversely affect us. Competitors in the highly competitive ESCO market often engage in unfair business practices to sign up new customers. Competitors engaging in unfair business practices unfortunately create an unfavorable impression about our industry on consumers. Such unfair practices by other companies can adversely affect our ability to grow or maintain our customer base. Demand for ESCO services and consumption by customers are significantly related to weather conditions. Typically, colder winters and hotter summers create higher demand and consumption for natural gas and electricity, respectively. Milder than expected winters and/or summers may reduce the demand for our energy services. Our current strategy is based on current regulatory conditions and assumptions, which could change or prove to be incorrect. Regulation over the electricity and natural gas markets has been in flux at the state and federal levels. In particular, any changes adopted by the FERC or changes in state or federal laws or regulations (including greenhouse gas laws) may affect the prices at which IDT Energy purchases electricity or natural gas for its 19 Table of Contents customers. While we seek to pass along increases in energy costs to our customers pursuant to our variable rate customer contracts, we may not always be able to do so due to competitive market forces and the risk of losing our customer base. In addition, potential regulatory changes may impact our ability to use our established sales and marketing channels. Any changes in these factors, or any significant changes in industry development, could have an adverse effect on our revenues, profitability and growth or threaten the viability of our current growth strategy. We face risks that are beyond our control. Our ability to provide energy delivery and commodity services depends on the operations and facilities of third parties, including, among others, BP, the NYISO and PJM. Our reliance on the electrical power generation and transmission infrastructure within the U.S. makes us vulnerable to large-scale power blackouts. The loss of use or destruction of the facilities of third parties that are used in providing our services due to extreme weather conditions, breakdowns, war, acts of terrorism or other occurrences could greatly reduce our potential earnings and cash flows. The successes, failures or other activities of various LDCs and other retail marketers within the markets that we serve may impact how we are perceived in the market. We are susceptible to downturns in general economic conditions, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. A revision to certain best practices and programs in which we participate and with which we comply could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our results and operations. Certain retail access “best practices” and programs proposed and/or required by state regulators have been implemented by utilities in most of the service territories in which we operate. One such practice in New York is participation in purchase of receivables programs under which certain utilities purchase customer receivables for approximately 98% of their face value in exchange for a first priority lien in the customer receivables without recourse against the ESCO. This program is a key component of our control of bad debt risk in our ESCO business in New York and Pennsylvania. In the event that any of these best practices or programs was to be revised or eliminated by state regulators or the individual utilities, we would need to adjust our current strategy regarding customer acquisition and our focus on the growth of our customer base. We would also need to adjust our current business plan to reduce our exposure to existing customers who may pose a bad debt risk. Any failure to properly respond to changing conditions could adversely affect our results of operations and profitability. In addition, on June 23, 2008, the NYPSC, issued its Order Establishing Energy Efficiency Portfolio Standard (EEPS) and Approving Programs setting a goal of gradually reducing electricity usage by 15% statewide by 2015 and requiring the utilities to file energy efficiency programs consistent with the policies and cost/benefit factors adopted by the NYPSC. Through January 2010, the Commission has approved 45 electric and 45 natural gas energy efficiency programs to implement the EEPS policy. On June 24, 2010, the Commission approved 3 new electric and gas EEPS programs. We cannot predict the impact of the EEPS on the electricity usage of our customers. There could be an adverse effect on the result of operations of our ESCO business if the EEPS results in a reduction in the aggregate amount of customer demand. In a territory within New Jersey, customers who are delinquent in paying their invoice will no longer receive a consolidated utility invoice. A consolidated utility invoice is similar to a purchase of receivables program since the utility has the responsibility to bill the customer and collect the receivable. Instead, those customers will be switched to a dual bill arrangement whereby IDT Energy will be responsible to bill and collect the commodity portion of the customers’ invoices. Once we invoice these customers under a dual bill arrangement, we will have bad debt risk associated with that portion of our revenues. Economic conditions, the creditworthiness of our customers in that territory and our ability to collect from these customers, among other things, may impact our profitability. The ESCO business, including our relationship with our suppliers, is dependent on access to capital and liquidity, which may be limited under current circumstances. Our business involves entering into contracts to purchase large quantities of electricity or natural gas. Because of seasonal fluctuations, we generally are required to purchase electricity or natural gas in advance and finance that purchase until we can recover such amounts from revenues. IDT Energy has a Preferred Supplier Agree- 20 Table of Contents ment with BP pursuant to which BP is our preferred provider of electricity and natural gas. In addition to other advantages of this agreement, we are no longer required to post security with most suppliers other than BP. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain the required covenants, that BP will be able to maintain their required credit rating, or that the agreement will be renewed upon its expiration in June 2014. Difficulty in obtaining adequate credit and liquidity on commercially reasonable terms may adversely affect our business, prospects and financial conditions. The ESCO business depends on the continuing efforts of our management team and our personnel with strong industry or operational knowledge and our efforts may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our success depends on key members of our management team, the loss of whom could disrupt our business operation. Our business also requires a capable, well-trained workforce to operate effectively. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our qualified personnel, the loss of which may adversely affect our business, prospects and financial conditions. The ESCO business relies on information systems. We expend extensive resources to convert, improve and maintain our information systems and related computer hardware. Failure to continue to successfully do so may result in a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flow and reputation with our customers and/or regulators. Risks Related to Genie Oil & Gas We have no current production of shale oil and we may never have any. We do not have any current production of shale oil. We cannot assure you that we will produce shale oil at all or in commercially profitable quantities. Our ability to produce shale oil may depend upon our ability to develop and operate our planned projects and facilities, which may be affected by events or conditions that impact the advancement, operation, cost or results of such projects or facilities, including: • The occurrence of unforeseen technical difficulties; • The outcome of negotiations with potential partners, governments, suppliers, customers or others; • Changes in operating conditions and costs, including costs of third-party equipment or services such as drilling and processing and access to power sources; and • Security concerns or acts of terrorism that threaten or disrupt the safe operation of company facilities. Operating hazards and uninsured risks with respect to the oil and gas operations may have material adverse effects on our operations. Our exploration and, if successful, development and production operations are subject to all of the risks normally incident to the exploration for and the development and production of oil and gas, including blowouts, cratering, uncontrollable flows of oil, gas or well fluids, fires, pollution and other environmental and operating risks. These hazards could result in substantial losses due to injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment, pollution and other environmental damage and suspension of operations. While as a matter of practice we take out insurance against some or all of these risks, such insurance may not cover the particular hazard and may not be sufficient to cover all losses. The occurrence of a significant event adversely affecting any of our operations could have a material adverse effect on us, could materially affect our continued operation and could expose us to material liability. AMSO, LLC’s and IEI’s dependence on the limited contractors, equipment and professional services available could result in increased costs and possibly material delays in their respective work schedules. Due to the lack of available technical resources with in-situ extraction experience, the costs for our operations may be more expensive than planned or there could be delays in our operating plans. We are also more likely to incur delays in our drilling schedule and be subject to a greater risk of failure in meeting our required work schedule. Similarly, some of the professional personnel we need to undertake our planned operations are not available in Israel or available on short notice for work in Israel, and, therefore, we may need to use overseas contractors for various projects. Any or all of the factors specified above may result in increased costs and delays in the work schedule. AMSO, LLC and IEI will require substantial funds and will need to raise additional capital in the future. We will need substantial funds to fully execute our anticipated operations. Failure to secure adequate funding could adversely affect our ability to advance our strategic plans as currently contemplated and require us to delay, scale back, or shut down our operations. 21 Table of Contents AMSO, LLC’s and IEI’s success depends on the continuing efforts of key personnel and our efforts may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract and retain qualified technical personnel particularly those with expertise in in-situ shale oil production. There is substantial competition for qualified technical personnel, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain our qualified technical personnel. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more of these people, and the ability to find suitable replacements within a reasonable period of time thereafter, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. There are uncertainties associated with AMSO, LLC’s RD&D Lease and IEI’s license. AMSO, LLC was granted an RD&D Lease by the BLM for 10 years with up to a 5-year extension upon demonstration that a process leading up to the production of commercial quantities of shale oil is diligently pursued. The terms of the RD&D Lease do not guarantee that the BLM will grant a commercial lease. Further, there is significant environmental opposition to the commercial production of shale oil. There are numerous conditions and requirements that AMSO, LLC will have to meet to convert its RD&D Lease into a commercial lease, and there can be no assurance that all of the conditions and requirements will be met before the expiration of the RD&D Lease. IEI holds an exclusive Shale Oil Exploration and Production License that expires in July 2011. While the license may be extended for an additional four years and IEI may also apply for a new license, there is no guarantee the license will be extended, that a new license would be granted or that the license will not be successfully challenged by environmental groups. In addition, the license is subject to certain conditions and milestones and the failure to reach those milestones may result in the termination, revocation, suspension or limitation of the license. In-situ technology for the extraction of shale oil is in its early stages of development, has not been deployed commercially and AMSO, LLC and IEI may not be able to develop environmentally acceptable and economically viable technology in connection therewith. Our strategy is predicated on the production and extraction of shale oil using unconventional methodologies, defined as any method other than the traditional oil well. In-situ shale oil production is typically more costly and is less established than traditional methods and therefore incurs a higher degree of technology risk. The greater cost increases the risk that we will not be profitable given commodity price fluctuations, assuming we enter into commercial production. AMSO, LLC and IEI are subject to regulatory, legal and political risks that may limit their operations. Our operations and potential earnings may be affected from time to time in varying degree by regulatory, legal and political factors including: • Laws and regulations related to environmental or energy security matters, including those addressing alternative energy sources and the risks of global climate change. Such laws and regulations continue to increase in both number and complexity and affect our operations with respect to, among other things: Ÿ The discharge of pollutants into the environment; Ÿ The handling, use, storage, transportation, disposal and cleanup of hazardous materials and hazardous and nonhazardous wastes; and Ÿ The dismantlement, abandonment and restoration of our properties and facilities at the end of their useful lives; • Restrictions on exploration and production; • Loss of petroleum rights including key leases, licenses or permits; • Tax or royalty increases, including retroactive claims; • Intellectual property challenges that would limit our ability to use in-situ extraction technology; • Political instability in areas where we operate; and • War or other international conflicts in Israel. Regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could increase AMSO, LLC and IEI’s operational costs. AMSO, LLC’s and IEI’s potential future production and processing of shale oil will result in some emission of greenhouse gases. International agreements and national or regional legislation and regulatory measures to 22 Table of Contents limit greenhouse emissions are currently in various phases of discussion or implementation. The Kyoto Protocol and other actual or pending federal, state and local regulations, envision a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions through market-based trading schemes. As a result of these and other potential environmental regulations, we can expect to incur additional capital, compliance, operating, maintenance and remediation costs. To the extent these costs are not ultimately reflected in the price of the products we sell, our operating results will be adversely affected. Our industry is subject to the same general inherent industry and economic risks of the oil and gas business. The oil business is fundamentally a commodity business. This means that potential future commercial operations and earnings may be significantly affected by changes in oil and gas prices and by changes in margins on gasoline and other refined products. We may be exposed to infringement or misappropriation claims by third parties, which, if determined adversely to us, could cause us to lose significant rights and pay significant damage awards. Our success also depends largely on our ability to use and develop our technology and know-how without infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. The validity and scope of claims relating to our technology involve complex scientific, legal and factual questions and analysis. It is therefore difficult to accurately predict whether or not a third party will assert that we are infringing on its intellectual property or whether it would prevail. Although we are not currently aware of any infringement or of any parties pursuing or intending to pursue infringement claims against us, we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to such claims in the future. Also, in many jurisdictions, patent applications remain confidential and are not published for about 5 to 6 months after filing. Thus, we may be unaware of other persons’ pending patent applications that relate to our processes. While at present we are unaware of competing patent applications, competing applications could potentially surface. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, patent opposition proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings can be both costly and time consuming and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our technical and management personnel. An adverse determination in any such litigation or proceedings to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liability to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties, to pay ongoing royalties, to redesign our products, or subject us to injunctions prohibiting the manufacture and sale of our products or the use of our technologies. Risks Related to Our Financial Performance We have incurred significant losses in prior periods, and losses in the future could cause the trading price of our stock to decline or have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, our ability to pay our debts as they become due and cash flows. We have incurred significant losses in prior periods. Although we had consolidated net income of $20.3 million in fiscal 2010, our accumulated deficit at July 31, 2010 was $(231.6) million. We incurred a net loss in fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008, fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, and we would have incurred a net loss in fiscal 2007 except for a gain on the sale of a discontinued operation. If we are not able to maintain profitability in the future, the trading price of our stock could decline and our financial condition could deteriorate as we could, among other things, deplete our cash, cash equivalents and investments. We hold significant cash, cash equivalents and investments that are subject to various market risks. As of July 31, 2010, we had cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities of $233.8 million. As of July 31, 2010, we also had $8.2 million in investments in hedge funds, of which $1.2 million was included in “Investments-short term” and $7.0 million was included in “Investments-long-term” in our consolidated balance sheet. These hedge funds carry a degree of risk, as there can be no assurance that we can redeem these investments at any time and that the managers of the hedge funds in which we have invested will be able to accurately predict the course of price movements of securities and other instruments and, in general, the securities markets have in recent years been characterized by great volatility and unpredictability. As a result of these different market risks, our holdings of cash, cash equivalents and investments could be materially and adversely affected. Intellectual Property, Tax, Regulatory and Litigation Risks We may be adversely affected if we fail to protect our proprietary technology. We depend on proprietary technology and other intellectual property rights in conducting our various business operations. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secret protection and 23 Table of Contents contractual rights to establish and protect our proprietary rights. Failure of our patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secret protection, non-disclosure agreements and other measures to provide protection of our technology and our intellectual property rights could enable our competitors to more effectively compete with us and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may be required to litigate in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, and there can be no assurances that we will be successful in any such litigation. We may be subject to claims of infringement of intellectual property rights of others. From time to time we may be subject to claims and legal proceedings from third parties regarding alleged infringement by us of trademarks, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property rights. Such suits can be expensive and time consuming and could distract us and our management from focusing on our businesses. Further, loss of such suits could result in financial burdens and the requirement to modify our modes of operation, which could materially adversely affect our business. We are subject to tax and regulatory audits which could result in the imposition of liabilities that may or may not have been reserved. We are subject to audit by taxing and regulatory authorities with respect to certain of our income and operations. These audits can cover periods for several years prior to the date the audit is undertaken and could result in the imposition of liabilities, interest and penalties if our positions are not accepted by the auditing entity. Our financial statements contain reserves for certain of such liabilities, but we do not reserve for liabilities that we do not reasonably expect to be imposed. On February 10, 2006, Universal Service Administrative Company, or USAC, notified us that it issued an Audit Report from its Internal Audit Division, or IAD. In calendar year 2005, the IAD audited our FCC Form 499-A filings for calendar years 2000 through 2004 related to the payments to the Universal Service Fund, and concluded that we incorrectly reported certain revenues on Forms 499-A. USAC directed us to refile our Forms 499-A for calendar years 2002 through 2004 in a manner consistent with the IAD’s findings. We did not refile the Forms 499-A, as we believed the IAD is mistaken in certain conclusions regarding the treatment of our revenues. USAC, however, filed the forms on our behalf, which we believe to be impermissible under the FCC’s rules and regulations. On June 5, 2007, we were notified by USAC that it intended to audit our FCC Form 499-A filings for calendar years 2005 and 2006. This audit took place over the subsequent months and, on April 30, 2008, USAC issued an Audit Report from its IAD finding, as it found in its prior Audit Report, that we incorrectly reported certain revenues on Forms 499-A. USAC directed us to refile our Forms 499-A for calendar year 2005 in a manner consistent with the IAD’s findings. We did not refile the Forms 499-A, as we believed the IAD is mistaken in certain conclusions regarding the treatment of our revenues. Whereas USAC filed certain Forms 499-A on our behalf over our objection in the first audit, USAC has not yet filed any Forms 499-A on our behalf as a result of the second audit. We filed with the FCC a “Request for Review” of the Audit Report, which remains pending as of the date we are filing this Annual Report. USAC’s revisions in both audits to our filing methodology resulted in additional regulatory payments for the years covered by the audit. Because we believe in the accuracy of our filing methodology and our Request remains pending, we have not revised our methodology for post-audit Form 499-A filings. We have accrued for all regulatory fees we believe may be incurred under IAD’s methodology from 2002 through the present, in the event our Request is denied and/or our methodology is not upheld on appeal, and we have made payments on amounts that have been invoiced to us by USAC and/or other agencies. We anticipate receiving additional invoices in the near future for our more recent audit. If we receive such invoices, we will remit payment for those invoices while our Requests for Review remain pending. As of July 31, 2010, our accrued expenses included $21.1 million for these regulatory fees for the years covered by the audit and subsequent years through fiscal 2010. Until a final decision has been reached in our disputes, we will continue to accrue in accordance with IAD’s methodology. If we do not properly calculate, or have not properly calculated, the amount payable by us to the Universal Service Fund, we may be subject to interest and penalties. 24 Table of Contents We are subject to value added tax, or VAT, audits from time-to-time in various jurisdictions. In the conduct of such audits, we may be required to disclose information of a sensitive nature and, in general, to modify the way we have conducted business with our distributors until the present, which may affect our business in an adverse manner. On September 4, 2008, a Swedish court granted an application made by the Swedish Tax Agency to seize SEK 100 million ($13.8 million) of assets owned by one of our subsidiaries, Inter Direct Tel Ltd., as security for payment of VAT. Inter Direct Tel appealed the seizure order and on October 6, 2008, the appellate court reversed the lower court’s seizure order. On December 17, 2008, the Swedish Tax Agency sent Inter Direct Tel an Audit Memo describing its reasoning for a VAT assessment of approximately SEK 112 million ($15.5 million) and SEK 22 million ($3.0 million) in penalties. On March 27, 2009, Inter Direct Tel responded to the comments in the Audit Memo. On June 5, 2009, Inter Direct Tel received a re-assessment from the Swedish Tax Agency in the same amounts assessed in the Audit Memo with the payment due on July 13, 2009. Inter Direct Tel received a suspension of the payment obligation until the matter is addressed by the appropriate court. On September 30, 2009, Inter Direct Tel filed an appeal of the re-assessment. On October 27, 2009, the Swedish Tax Agency issued its decision on the re-assessment which did not change its previous assessment. On December 9, 2009, Inter Direct Tel submitted its response to the Swedish Tax Agency’s decision to the County Administrative Court in Vänersborg. The case was transferred to a new County Administrative Court in Gothenburg and we are awaiting the Court’s decision. We cannot be certain of the ultimate outcome of this matter at this time. We are also subject to audits in various jurisdictions for various other taxes, including sales and use tax, utility excise tax, gross receipts tax and property tax. Two of the more significant audits relate to sales and use tax in New Jersey and utility excise tax in New York, for which we have accrued an aggregate of $3.0 million as of July 31, 2010. We believe that we have adequately provided for all of the obligations for these taxes, however amounts asserted by taxing authorities or the amount ultimately assessed against us could be greater than the accrued amounts. Accordingly, additional provisions may be recorded in the future as revised estimates are made or underlying matters are settled or resolved. Imposition of assessments as a result of tax and regulatory audits could have an adverse affect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Federal and state regulations may be passed that could harm Net2Phone’s business. Net2Phone’s ability to provide VoIP communications services at attractive rates arises in large part from the fact that VoIP services are not currently subject to the same level of regulation as traditional, switch-based telephony. The use of the Internet and private IP networks to provide voice communications services is largely unregulated within the United States, although several foreign governments have adopted laws and/or regulations that could restrict or prohibit the provision of voice communications services over the Internet or private IP networks. If interconnected VoIP services become subject to state regulation and/or additional regulation by the FCC, such regulation will likely lead to higher costs and reduce or eliminate the competitive advantage interconnected VoIP holds, by virtue of its lesser regulatory oversight, over traditional telecommunications services. More aggressive regulation of the Internet in general, and Internet telephony providers and services specifically, may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to offer services outside of the United States is subject to the local regulatory environment, which may be unfavorable, complicated and often uncertain. Regulatory treatment outside the United States varies from country to country. We distribute our products and services through resellers that may be subject to telecommunications regulations in their home countries. The failure of these resellers to comply with these laws and regulations could reduce our revenue and profitability, or expose us to audits and other regulatory proceedings. Regulatory developments such as these could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In many countries in which we operate or our services are sold, the status of the laws that may relate to our services is unclear. We cannot be certain that our customers, resellers, or other affiliates are currently in compliance with regulatory or other legal requirements in their respective countries, that they or we will be able to comply with existing or future requirements, and/or that they or we will continue in compliance with any requirements. Our failure or the failure of those with whom we transact business to comply with these requirements could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 25 Table of Contents While we expect additional regulation of our industry in some or all of these areas, and we expect continuing changes in the regulatory environment as new and proposed regulations are reviewed, revised and amended, we cannot predict with certainty what impact new laws in these areas will have on us, if any. For a complete discussion of what we believe are the most material regulations impacting our business, see “Business—Regulation” included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are subject to legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business that may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Various legal proceedings that have arisen or may arise in the ordinary course of business have not been finally adjudicated, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. See, for example, the T-Mobile USA, Inc. and Southwestern Bell matters as set forth in detail in Item 3 Legal Proceedings below. Risks Related to Our Capital Structure Holders of our Class B common stock have significantly less voting power than holders of our Class A common stock and our common stock. Holders of our Class B common stock are entitled to one-tenth of a vote per share on all matters on which our stockholders are entitled to vote, while holders of our Class A common stock are entitled to three votes per share and holders of our common stock are entitled to one vote per share. As a result, the ability of holders of our Class B common stock to influence our management is limited. We are controlled by our principal stockholder, which limits the ability of other stockholders to affect our management. Howard S. Jonas, our Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and founder, has voting power over 4,764,039 shares of our common stock (which includes 3,272,326 shares of our Class A common stock, which are convertible into shares of our common stock on a 1-for-1 basis) and 1,825,329 shares of our Class B common stock, representing approximately 76% of the combined voting power of our outstanding capital stock, as of October 21, 2010. Mr. Jonas is able to control matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of all of the directors and the approval of significant corporate matters, including any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. As a result, the ability of any of our other stockholders to influence our management is limited. Risks Related to Our Publicly Traded Equity The price of our common stock and Class B common stock decreased significantly in prior periods, and may continue to be subject to volatility. The price of our common stock and our Class B common stock decreased significantly in fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2009, although the prices increased in fiscal 2010 but not to the previous levels. The prices of our common stock and our Class B common stock have been subject to substantial volatility during these fiscal years. As of the close of business on October 25, 2010, the price of our common stock and Class B common stock were $11.58 and $14.78, respectively. See Part II, Item 5 (Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities) of this annual report for more information on the history of the closing prices of our common stock and our Class B common stock. The prices of our common stock and our Class B common stock may continue to be subject to substantial volatility. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 