ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS Our business may be adversely affected by conditions in the financial services industry and U.S. and global credit markets. Beginning in the latter half of 2007 and continuing into 2010, negative developments in the capital markets and the economic recession have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general. Although there are some indicators of improving economic conditions, there can be no assurance that such conditions will continue to improve and it is also possible that conditions will again deteriorate. Factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our business. Loan portfolio performances have deteriorated at many institutions resulting from, among other factors, a weak economy and a decline in the value of the collateral supporting their loans. The competition for deposits has increased significantly due to liquidity concerns at many of these same institutions. In an economic environment characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, stock prices of bank holding companies, like ours, have been negatively affected by the current condition of the financial markets, as has our ability, if needed, to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past two years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of real estate related loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. These write-downs have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to reduce or eliminate dividends, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provision for loan losses. As a result, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and financial institution regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations. Negative developments in the financial services industry and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments could adversely impact our operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. There can be no assurance that recently enacted legislation will help stabilize the U.S. financial system. Since October 2008, numerous legislative actions have been taken in response to the financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets, including the following: · EESA was signed into law on October 3, 2008 in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. Pursuant to EESA, the Treasury has the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. · On October 14, 2008, the Treasury announced the CPP under EESA, pursuant to which it would purchase senior preferred stock and warrants to purchase common stock from participating financial institutions. On January 9, 2009, we entered into the Agreement with the Treasury providing for our issuance of our Series A Preferred Stock and a Warrant to purchase shares of our common stock to the Treasury in connection with the TARP CPP. · On September 9, 2009, the FDIC extended the increased deposit insurance amount of $250,000 through December 31, 2013. In addition, on August 26, 2009, the FDIC extended the TLGP, under which it would temporarily guarantee certain new debt issued by insured banks and qualifying bank holding companies and expand its insurance to cover all non-interest bearing transaction accounts through June 30, 2010. The Company did not opt out of the TLGP so its non-interest bearing transaction accounts are covered and it does not expect to issue unsecured debt before the termination of that component of the TLGP. Our participation in the TLGP will require the payment of additional insurance premiums to the FDIC. Additionally, we may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums in the future because market developments have significantly depleted the Deposit Insurance Fund and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. On February 27, 2009, the FDIC adopted an interim rule to impose a 20 basis point emergency special assessment on insured institutions. The assessment was based on deposits as of June 30, 2009 and was collected on September 30, 2009. On December 30, 2009, the FDIC required depository institutions to prepay the deposit premiums that they expected to have to pay over the next three years. - 32 - - · On February 10, 2009, the Treasury announced the Financial Stability Plan under the EESA, which is intended to further stabilize financial institutions and stimulate lending across a broad range of economic sectors. · On February 17, 2009, President Obama signed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, or ARRA, a broad economic stimulus package that included additional restrictions on, and potential additional regulation of, financial institutions. Each of these programs was implemented to help stabilize and provide liquidity to the financial system. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the EESA and its implementing regulations, the CPP, the Financial Stability Plan, the ARRA, the FDIC programs, or any other governmental program will have on the financial markets. The failure of the EESA, ARRA, the FDIC or the U.S. government to stabilize the financial markets, and the continuation or worsening of the current financial market conditions, could have a material adverse affect on our business, our financial condition, the results of our operations, our access to credit or the trading price of our common stock as well as the financial condition of our customers. It could also result in declines in our investment portfolio which could be “other-than-temporary impairments.” The FDIC has imposed a special assessment on all FDIC-insured institutions, which decreased our earnings in 2009, and future special assessment could adversely affect our earnings in future periods. On February 27, 2009, the FDIC adopted an interim rule to impose a 20 basis point emergency special assessment on insured institutions. The assessment was based on deposits as of June 30, 2009 and was collected on September 30, 2009. This additional charge of $209,196 increased operating expenses during the year ended December 31, 2009. The FDIC has indicated that future special assessments are possible, although it has not determined the magnitude or timing of any future assessment. Any such future assessments will decrease our earnings. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be relied upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our local economy may affect our future growth possibilities. We are in uncertain economic times, including uncertainty with respect to financial markets that have been volatile as a result of sub-prime mortgage related and other matters. Unlike many larger institutions, we are not able to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies and geographic locations. Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in our current market area, which is primarily located in Webster, Story, Des Moines, Dallas, Polk, and Henry Counties, Iowa. The financial crisis and recession has negatively impacted our local economy and any further downturn in our local economy may further limit funds available for deposits and may negatively affect our borrowers’ ability to repay their loans on a timely basis. If the communities in which we operate do not grow, or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable or worsen, our business may not be successful. A continued economic downturn would likely lead to a deterioration of the credit quality of our loan portfolio and reduce our level of customer deposits, which in turn would hurt our business. If the current economic conditions as a whole, or in our geographic market areas, do not improve, borrowers may be less likely to repay their loans as scheduled or at all. Moreover, the value of real estate or other collateral that may secure our loans could be adversely affected. Our loan portfolio includes loans with a higher risk of loss. We originate commercial mortgage loans, including multifamily residential loans, commercial business loans, consumer loans, and residential mortgage loans primarily within our market area. We also purchase commercial mortgage loans, including multifamily residential loans, and residential mortgage loans, primarily secured by out of state properties, which entail certain risks not necessarily associated with loans the Company originates. Commercial mortgage, commercial business, and consumer loans may expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans may not be sold as easily as residential real estate. In addition, commercial real estate and commercial business loans may also involve relatively large loan balances to individual borrowers or groups of borrowers. These loans also have greater credit risk than residential real estate for the following reasons: - 33 - - · Commercial Mortgage Loans. Repayment is dependent upon income being generated in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service. · Commercial Loans. Repayment is generally dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower’s business. · Consumer Loans. Consumer loans (such as personal lines of credit) may or may not be collateralized with assets that provide an adequate source of payment of the loan due to depreciation, damage, or loss. Any further downturn in the real estate market or local economy could adversely affect the value of the properties securing the loans or revenues from the borrower’s business thereby increasing the risk of non-performing loans. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. Given the high percentage of our assets represented, directly or indirectly, by loans and the importance of lending to our overall business, continued recessionary conditions are likely to have a negative impact on our business, our ability to serve our customers and our results of operations. If the current recessionary environment continues or worsens, our loan customers may not repay their loans according to their terms and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. We therefore may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Any further downturn in the real estate market or local economy could exacerbate this risk. Material additions to our allowance for loan losses to reflect the risk of additional unpaid loans also would materially decrease our net income, and the charge-off of loans may cause us to increase the allowance. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. We rely on our loan quality reviews, our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors, in determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. The results of our operations may be adversely affected if asset valuations cause other-than-temporary impairment charges. We may be required to record future impairment charges on our investment securities if they suffer declines in value that are considered other-than-temporary. Numerous factors, including lack of liquidity for re-sales of certain investment securities, absence of reliable pricing information for investment securities, adverse changes in business climate, adverse actions by regulators, or unanticipated changes in the competitive environment could have a negative effect on the Company’s investment portfolio in future periods. If an impairment charge is significant enough it could affect the ability of the Bank to upstream dividends to the Company, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity and its ability to pay dividends to shareholders and could also negatively impact its regulatory capital ratios and result in the Bank not being classified as “well capitalized” for regulatory purposes. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our profitability, like that of most financial institutions, depends substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on our interest-bearing liabilities. Increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. In addition, as market interest rates rise, we will have competitive pressures to increase the rates we pay on deposits, which could result in a decrease of our net interest income. We also are subject to reinvestment risk associated with changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on existing loans and securities. Our earnings may be adversely impacted by an increase in interest rates because a significant portion of our interest-earning assets are long-term, fixed rate mortgage-related assets that will not reprice as long-term interest rates increase while a majority of our interest-bearing liabilities are expected to reprice as interest rates increase. Therefore, in an increasing interest rate environment, our cost of funds could increase more rapidly than the yields earned on our loan portfolio and securities portfolio. An increasing rate environment could cause a narrowing of our net interest rate spread and a decrease in our net interest income. - 34 - - We depend on our executive officers and key personnel to continue the implementation of our long-term business strategy and could be harmed by the loss of their services. We believe that our continued growth and future success will depend in large part upon the skills of our management team. The competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry is intense, and the loss of our key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could adversely affect our business. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing key personnel or attract additional qualified personnel. Although we have employment agreements with our president and chief executive officer and our executive vice president that each contain a non-compete provision, the loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers and key personnel could impair our ability to continue to develop our business strategy. In addition, because of our participation in the CPP, we are subject to standards on compensation paid to our executives imposed by the Treasury. The standards include (1) limits on compensation that exclude incentives for the Company’s Senior Executive Officers to take unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the value of the Company; (2) a provision for the recovery of any bonus, retention award, or incentive compensation paid to the Company’s Senior Executive Officers or to any of the Company’s next twenty most highly compensated employees based on certain financial statements or other criteria that are later found to be materially inaccurate; (3) a prohibition on the Company from making any payments to the Senior Executive Officers or to any of the next five most highly compensated employees for departure from the Company for any reason, except for payments for services performed or benefits accrued; (4) a prohibition on the Company’s ability to pay bonuses and certain other compensation to the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, except with respect to certain restricted stock awards or to the extent that a bonus is required by a valid employment contract; (5) a prohibition on any compensation plan that would encourage manipulation of the Company’s reported earnings for the purposes of enhancing employee compensation; (6) a requirement for the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer to provide certain certifications regarding the foregoing; (7) certain requirements with respect to the Company’s Personnel and Compensation Committee; (8) a requirement to adopt a company-wide policy regarding excessive or luxury expenditures; (9) a requirement to permit a nonbinding “say on pay” shareholder vote to be included in the Company’s proxy statement with respect to an annual meeting of stockholders; and (10) authorizing the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury to review certain compensation paid to the Company’s Senior Executive Officers and the next 20 most highly-compensated employees to determine whether any such payments were inconsistent with the purposes of the foregoing. Since these restrictions apply until the Treasury no longer holds any of the Series A Preferred Stock or Warrant, we could potentially be subject to these restrictions indefinitely. These restrictions could limit our ability to attract and retain key managerial talent. We operate in a highly regulated environment, and changes in laws and regulations to which we are subject may adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OTS, as the Bank’s chartering authority, and by the FDIC as the insurer of our deposits up to certain limits. In addition, the OTS regulates and oversees the Company as a savings and loan holding company. We also belong to the Federal Home Loan Bank System and, as a member of such system; we are subject to certain limited regulations promulgated by the FHLB of Des Moines. This regulation and supervision limits the activities in which we may engage. The purpose of regulation and supervision is primarily to protect our depositors and borrowers and, in the case of FDIC regulation, the FDIC’s insurance fund. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in the exercise of their supervisory and enforcement powers. They may, among other things, impose restrictions on the operation of a banking institution, the classification of assets by such institution and such institution’s allowance for loan losses. Regulatory and law enforcement authorities also have wide discretion and extensive enforcement powers under various consumer protection and civil rights laws, including the Truth-in-Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act. It is possible that the new administration could make significant changes to the regulatory framework applicable to banks and bank holding companies. Any change in the laws or regulations applicable to us, or in banking regulators’ supervisory policies or examination procedures, whether by the OTS, the FDIC, other state or federal regulators, the United States Congress or the Iowa legislature could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Competition in our primary market area may reduce our ability to attract and retain deposits and originate loans. We operate in a competitive market for both attracting deposits, which is our primary source of funds, and originating loans. Historically, our most direct competition for savings deposits has come from credit unions, community banks, large commercial banks and thrift institutions in our primary market area. Particularly in times of extremely low or extremely high interest rates, we have faced additional significant competition for investors’ funds from brokerage firms and other firms’ short-term money market securities and corporate and government securities. Our competition for loans comes principally from mortgage brokers, commercial banks, other thrift institutions, and insurance companies. Such competition for the origination of loans may limit our future growth and earnings prospects. Competition for loan originations and deposits may limit our future growth and earnings prospects. - 35 - - If external funds were not available, this could adversely impact our growth and prospects. We rely on retail deposits, brokered deposits, the amortization and prepayment of loans, the maturity and calls of investment securities, our operations and advances from the FHLB of Des Moines to fund our operations. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances as necessary, we might not be able to replace such funds in the future if, among other things, our results of operations or financial condition or the results of operations or financial condition of the FHLB of Des Moines or market conditions were to change. In addition, if we fall below the FDIC’s thresholds to be considered “well capitalized” we will be unable to continue with uninterrupted access to the brokered funds markets. In addition, certain Federal Home Loan Banks have experienced lower earnings from time to time and paid out lower dividends to its members. Future problems at the Federal Home Loan Banks may impact the collateral necessary to secure borrowings and limit the borrowings extended to its member banks, require additional capital contributions by its member banks, and reduce or eliminate the dividend paid by the FHLB of Des Moines. Should this occur, we could have difficulty meeting our short term liquidity needs and the Bank’s net interest income could be affected. In addition, future problems at the Federal Home Loan Banks could also cause the value of the equity investment we have in the stock of FHLB of Des Moines to decline or become impaired. As of December 31, 2009, we held approximately $3.9 million in FHLB of Des Moines stock, representing approximately 0.86 percent of our total assets. We may not be able to raise capital in the future on acceptable terms or at all. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We anticipate our capital resources, in part as a result of the sale of the Series A Preferred Stock to the Treasury, will satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We may at some point, however, need to raise additional capital to support our continued growth. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital if needed on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to satisfy regulatory capital requirements or expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. Our prior branch expansion may reduce our short-term profitability due to one-time fixed expenses coupled with low levels of income earned by the branch until its customer base is built. We opened a new branch in West Des Moines, Iowa in 2006 and may open additional new branches in the future. The expense associated with building and staffing new branches will significantly increase our noninterest expense, with compensation and occupancy costs constituting the largest amount of increased costs. Losses are expected from new branches for some time as the expenses associated with them are largely fixed and typically greater than the income earned as a branch builds up its customer base. There can be no assurance that our branch expansion strategy will result in increased earnings, or that it will result in increased earnings within a reasonable period of time. We expect that the success of our branching strategy will depend largely on the ability of our staff to market the deposit and loan products offered by us. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and, as a result, investors and depositors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could adversely affect our business, the trading price of our stock and our ability to attract additional deposits. Beginning with our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, we had to include a report of our management regarding internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to identify and correct any significant deficiencies in the design or operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or fail to prevent fraud, current and potential stockholders and depositors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, the trading price of our stock and our ability to attract additional deposits. Our Articles of Incorporation and bylaws may prevent a transaction you may favor or limit our growth opportunities, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation, including the certificate of designations with respect to the Series A Preferred Stock, (the “Articles of Incorporation”) and bylaws and applicable provisions of Iowa and federal law and regulations may delay, inhibit or prevent an organization or person from gaining control of the Company through a tender offer, business combination, proxy contest or some other method, even though you might be in favor of the transaction. We may not be able to pay dividends in the future in accordance with past practice and our ability to increase future dividends is subject to the Treasury’s consent. Our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders is primarily dependent on the Bank’s earnings. The payment of dividends also is subject to legal and regulatory restrictions. Any payment of dividends in the future will depend, in large part, on the Bank’s earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors considered relevant by North Central’s board of directors. In addition, the agreements governing the issuance of the Series A Preferred Stock and the Warrant in connection with the TARP CPP restrict our ability to pay dividends in certain circumstances and to increase our dividend without the Treasury’s consent. As long as there is Series A Preferred Stock outstanding, no dividends may be paid on our common stock unless all dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock have been paid in full. - 36 - - The Series A Preferred Stock and Warrant issued to the Treasury in connection with the TARP CPP will impact net income available to our common stockholders and our earnings per share. The dividends declared on our Series A Preferred Stock will reduce the net income available to common stockholders and our earnings per common share. Additionally, the Warrant to purchase our common stock issued to the Treasury in conjunction with the Series A Preferred Stock may be dilutive to our earnings per share. The Series A Preferred Stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of our business. The Series A Preferred Stock is equity and is subordinate to all of our existing and future indebtedness. Regulatory and contractual restrictions may limit or prevent us from paying dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock and our common stock, and the Series A Preferred Stock places no limitations on the amount of indebtedness we and our subsidiaries may incur in the future. Shares of the Series A Preferred Stock are equity interests in North Central and do not constitute indebtedness. As such, the Series A Preferred Stock, like our common stock, ranks junior to all indebtedness and other non-equity claims on North Central with respect to assets available to satisfy claims on North Central, including in a liquidation of North Central. Additionally, unlike indebtedness, where principal and interest would customarily be payable on specified due dates, in the case of preferred stock like the Series A Preferred Stock, as with our common stock, (1) dividends are payable only when, as and if authorized and declared by, our Board and depend on, among other things, our results of operations, financial condition, debt service requirements, other cash needs and any other factors our Board deems relevant, and (2) as an Iowa corporation, under Iowa law we are subject to restrictions on payments of dividends out of lawfully available funds. In addition, the Series A Preferred Stock does not limit the amount of debt or other obligations we or our subsidiaries may incur in the future. Accordingly, we and our subsidiaries may incur substantial amounts of additional debt and other obligations that will rank senior to the Series A Preferred Stock or to which the Series A Preferred Stock will be structurally subordinated. There may be future sales of additional common stock or preferred stock or other dilution of our equity, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock or the Series A Preferred Stock. We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock or preferred stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities. The per share value of our common stock or the Series A Preferred Stock could decline as a result of sales by us of a large number of shares of common stock or preferred stock or similar securities in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock have limited voting rights. Until and unless we are in arrears on our dividend payments on the Series A Preferred Stock for six dividend periods, whether or not consecutive, the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock will have no voting rights except with respect to certain fundamental changes in the terms of the Series A Preferred Stock and certain other matters and except as may be required by Iowa law. If dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock are not paid in full for six dividend periods, whether or not consecutive, the total number of positions on the North Central Board will automatically increase by two and the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock, acting as a class with any other parity securities having similar voting rights, will have the right to elect two individuals to serve in the new director positions. This right and the terms of such directors will end when we have paid in full all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past dividend periods. If we are unable to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock after five years, we will be required to make higher dividend payments on this stock, thereby substantially increasing our cost of capital. If we are unable to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock prior to February 15, 2014, the dividend rate will increase substantially on that date, from 5.0% per annum to 9.0% per annum. Depending on our financial condition at the time, this increase in the annual dividend rate on the Series A Preferred Stock could have a material negative effect on our liquidity, our net income available to common shareholders, and our earnings per share. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. - 37 - - ITEM 