ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves certain risks. This section describes material risks that our management believes are specific to us and our business. Before making an investment decision, you should read carefully and consider these risk factors in conjunction with the other information in this Form 10-K and information incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes which are set forth in the Company’s 2011 Annual Report to Shareholders, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 13.1 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements about our future plans, objectives, intentions and expectations. Past results are not a reliable indicator of future results, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. The risk factors described below could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in forward-looking statements. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of the risks described below, and you may lose all or part of your investment. 26 INDEX RISK FACTORS We operate in a highly regulated environment, and changes in laws and regulations to which we are subject may adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal and state regulatory agencies for both the Company and the Bank, and by the FDIC as the insurer of the Bank’s deposits up to certain limits. We also belong to the FHLB System and, as a member of such system, we are subject to certain limited regulations promulgated by the FHLB of Des Moines. This regulation and supervision limits the activities in which we may engage. The purpose of regulation and supervision is primarily to protect our depositors and borrowers and, in the case of FDIC regulation, the FDIC’s insurance fund. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in the exercise of their supervisory and enforcement powers. They may, among other things, impose restrictions on the operation of a banking institution, the classification of assets by such institution and such institution’s allowance for loan losses. Regulatory and law enforcement authorities also have wide discretion and extensive enforcement powers under various consumer protection and civil rights laws, including the Truth in Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act. Any change in the laws or regulations applicable to us, or in a banking regulator’s supervisory policies or examination procedures, whether by our primary federal banking regulator, the FDIC, other state or federal regulators, the U.S. Congress or the Iowa legislature, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Liquidity risks could affect operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. Our primary source of funding is retail deposits gathered through our network of branch offices. Our alternative funding sources include, without limitation, brokered certificates of deposit, federal funds purchased, Federal Reserve Discount Window borrowings, FHLB advances and short and long-term debt. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources to accommodate our existing and future lending and investment activities could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity and severely constrain our financial flexibility. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be relied upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations Our loan portfolio includes loans with a higher risk of loss. We originate commercial mortgage loans, including multifamily residential loans, commercial business loans, consumer loans, and residential mortgage loans primarily within our market area. Prior to 2010, we also purchased commercial mortgage loans, including multifamily residential loans, and residential mortgage loans, primarily secured by out-of-state properties, which entail certain risks not necessarily associated with loans the Company originates. Commercial mortgage, commercial business, and consumer loans may expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans may not be sold as easily as residential real estate. In addition, commercial real estate and commercial business loans may also involve relatively large loan balances to individual borrowers or groups of borrowers. These loans also have greater credit risk than residential real estate for the following reasons: · Commercial Mortgage Loans. Repayment is dependent upon income being generated in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service. · Commercial Loans. Repayment is generally dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower’s business. · Consumer Loans. Consumer loans (such as personal lines of credit) may or may not be collateralized with assets that provide an adequate source of repayment on the loan due to depreciation, damage, or loss. 27 INDEX Any additional downturn in the real estate market or local economy could adversely affect the value of the properties securing the loans or revenues from the borrower’s business thereby increasing the risk of non-performing loans. Low demand for real estate loans may lower our profitability. Making loans secured by real estate is our primary business and primary source of revenue. If customer demand for real estate loans further decreases, our profits may decrease because our alternative investments, primarily securities, generally earn less income than real estate loans. Customer demand for loans secured by real estate could be reduced due to weaker economic conditions, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or an increase in interest rates. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. Despite recent signs of improvement in the economy, given the high percentage of our assets represented, directly or indirectly, by loans and the importance of lending to our overall business, a relapse of the economy into recessionary conditions would likely have a negative impact on our business, our ability to serve our customers and our results of operations. If the current economic environment worsens or does not improve, our loan customers may not repay their loans according to their terms and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. We therefore may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Any further downturn in the real estate market or local economy could exacerbate this risk. Material additions to our allowance for loan losses to reflect the risk of additional unpaid loans also would materially decrease our net income, and the charge-off of loans may cause us to increase the allowance. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. We rely on our loan quality reviews, our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors, in determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. The results of our operations may be adversely affected if asset valuations cause other-than-temporary impairment charges. We may be required to record future impairment charges on our investment securities if they suffer declines in value that are considered other-than-temporary. Numerous factors, including lack of liquidity for re-sales of certain investment securities, absence of reliable pricing information for investment securities, adverse changes in business climate, adverse actions by regulators, or unanticipated changes in the competitive environment could have a negative effect on the Company’s investment portfolio in future periods. If an impairment charge is significant enough, it could affect the ability of the Bank to upstream dividends to the Company, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity and its ability to pay dividends to shareholders and could also negatively impact its regulatory capital ratios and result in the Bank not being classified as “well capitalized” for regulatory purposes. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our profitability, like that of most financial institutions, depends substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on our interest-bearing liabilities. Increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. In addition, as market interest rates rise, we will have competitive pressures to increase the rates we pay on deposits, which could result in a decrease in our net interest income. We also are subject to reinvestment risk associated with changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on existing loans and securities. Our earnings may be adversely impacted by an increase in interest rates because a significant portion of our interest-earning assets are long-term, fixed rate mortgage-related assets that will not reprice as long-term interest rates increase while a majority of our interest-bearing liabilities are expected to reprice as interest rates increase. Therefore, in an increasing interest rate environment, our cost of funds could increase more rapidly than the yields earned on our loan portfolio and securities portfolio. An increasing rate environment could cause a narrowing of our net interest rate spread and a decrease in our net interest income. 28 INDEX Negative developments in the financial industry and the credit markets may subject us to additional regulation. As a result of ongoing challenges facing the U.S. economy, the potential exists for the promulgation of new laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement orders. Negative developments in the financial industry and credit markets, and the impact of new legislation and agency rulemakings in response to those developments, may negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and may adversely impact our financial performance. We depend on our executive officers and key personnel to continue the implementation of our long-term business strategy and could be harmed by the loss of their services. We believe that our continued growth and future success will depend in large part upon the skills of our management team. The competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry is intense, and the loss of our key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could adversely affect our business. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing key personnel or attract additional qualified personnel. Although we have employment agreements with our president and chief executive officer as well as our executive vice president that each contain a non-compete provision, the loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers and key personnel could impair our ability to continue to develop our business strategy. Competition in our primary market area may reduce our ability to attract and retain deposits and originate loans. We operate in a competitive market for both attracting deposits, which is our primary source of funds, and originating loans. Historically, our most direct competition for savings deposits has come from credit unions, community banks, large commercial banks and thrift institutions in our primary market area. Particularly in times of extremely low or extremely high interest rates, we have faced additional significant competition for investors’ funds from brokerage firms and other firms’ short-term money market securities and corporate and government securities. Our competition for loans comes principally from mortgage brokers, commercial banks, other thrift institutions, and insurance companies. Such competition for the origination of loans may limit our future growth and earnings prospects. Competition for loan originations and deposits may limit our future growth and earnings prospects. If external funds were not available, this could adversely impact our growth and prospects. We rely on retail deposits, the amortization and prepayment of loans, the maturity and calls of investment securities, our operations and advances from the FHLB of Des Moines to fund our operations. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances as necessary, we might not be able to replace such funds in the future if, among other things, our results of operations or financial condition or the results of operations or financial condition of the FHLB of Des Moines or market conditions were to change. In addition, if we fall below the FDIC’s thresholds to be considered “well capitalized” we will be unable to continue with uninterrupted access to the brokered funds markets. In addition, certain Federal Home Loan Banks have experienced lower earnings from time to time and paid out lower dividends to its members. Future problems at the Federal Home Loan Banks may impact the collateral necessary to secure borrowings and limit the borrowings extended to its member banks, require additional capital contributions by its member banks, and reduce or eliminate the dividends paid by the FHLB of Des Moines. Should this occur, we could have difficulty meeting our short term liquidity needs and the Bank’s net interest income could be affected. In addition, future problems at the Federal Home Loan Banks could also cause the value of the equity investment we have in the stock of FHLB of Des Moines to decline or become impaired. As of December 31, 2011, we held approximately $1.9 million in FHLB of Des Moines stock, representing approximately 0.43% of our total assets. We may not be able to raise capital in the future on acceptable terms or at all. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We anticipate our capital resources will satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We may at some point, however, need to raise additional capital to support our continued growth. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital if needed on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to satisfy regulatory capital requirements or expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. 29 INDEX A decline in the performance of our mortgage seller/servicers with respect to our commercial and multfamily real estate portfolio could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. Our seller/servicers have a significant role in servicing loans in our commercial and multifamily real estate portfolio. A decline in their performance could impact the overall quality of the service they provide, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations and have significant impacts on our ability to mitigate credit losses. The downturn in our local economy may negatively affect our future growth possibilities by limiting funds available for deposit and our borrowers’ ability to repay their loans on a timely basis. Our current primary market area is principally located in Webster, Story, Des Moines, Dallas, Polk, and Henry Counties, which are located in the north central, central and southeastern parts of the State of Iowa. The Company’s market area is influenced by agriculture, manufacturing, retail sales, insurance, financial and other professional services and public education. Our future growth opportunities depend on the growth and stability of our regional economy and our ability to expand our market area. The current economic downturn could cause significant increases in non-performing loans, which would hurt our profits. Additionally, a decrease in asset quality could require additions to our allowance for loan losses through increased provisions for loan losses, which would hurt our profits. A decline in real estate values could cause some of our mortgage loans to become inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss. The downgrade of U.S. government securities by the credit rating agencies could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations, earnings, and financial condition. The debates in Congress regarding the national debt ceiling, federal budget deficit concerns, and overall weakness in the economy resulted in a downgrade of U.S. government securities by Standard & Poor’s, one of the three major credit rating agencies, in August 2011. While the federal banking agencies including the Federal Reserve and the FDIC have issued guidance indicating that, for risk-based capital purposes, the risk weights for U.S. Treasury securities and other securities issued or guaranteed by the U.S. government, government agencies, and government-sponsored entities will not be affected by the downgrade, the downgrade and the possible future downgrade of the federal government’s credit rating by one or both of the other two major rating agencies, could create uncertainty in the U.S. and global financial markets and cause other events which, directly or indirectly, may adversely affect the Company’s operations, earnings, and financial condition. Changes in the Federal Reserve’s monetary or fiscal policies could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our earnings will be affected by domestic economic conditions and the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States government and its agencies. The Federal Reserve has, and is likely to continue to have, an important impact on the operating results of depository institutions through its power to implement national monetary policy, among other things, in order to curb inflation or combat a recession. The Federal Reserve affects the levels of bank loans, investments and deposits through its control over the issuance of United States government securities, its regulation of the discount rate applicable to member banks and its influence over reserve requirements to which member banks are subject. We cannot predict the nature or impact of future changes in monetary and fiscal policies. We may not be able to successfully implement our future plans for growth. As a component of our business plan, we may consider expansion opportunities such as the acquisition of branches and other financial institutions as such opportunities arise. Significant changes in interest rates or the competition we face may make it difficult to attract the level of customer deposits needed to fund our internal growth at projected levels. Accordingly, there can also be no assurance that we will be able to adequately and profitably implement our possible future growth or that we will not have to incur additional expenditures beyond current projections to support such growth. Our Articles of Incorporation and bylaws may prevent a transaction you may favor or may limit our growth opportunities, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and applicable provisions of Iowa and federal law and regulations may delay, inhibit or prevent an organization or person from gaining control of the Company through a tender offer, business combination, proxy contest or some other method, even though you might be in favor of the transaction. We may not be able to pay dividends in the future in accordance with past practice. Our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders is primarily dependent on the Bank’s earnings. The payment of dividends also is subject to legal and regulatory restrictions. Any payment of dividends in the future will depend, in large part, on the Bank’s earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors considered relevant by the Company’s board of directors. There may be future sales of additional common stock or preferred stock or other dilution of our equity, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock or preferred stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities. Accordingly, the per share value of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by us of a large number of shares of common stock or preferred stock or similar securities in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. 30 INDEX The trading volume in our common stock has been low, and the sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could depress the price of our common stock and make it difficult for you to sell your shares. Our common stock is listed to trade on the NASDAQ Global Market, but is thinly traded. As a result, you may not be able to sell your shares of common stock on short notice. Additionally, thinly traded stock can be more volatile than stock trading in an active public market. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock at one time could temporarily depress the market price of our common stock, making it difficult for you to sell your shares and impairing our ability to raise capital. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 