risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those provided in the forward-looking statements. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview We are a medical device company that develops, manufactures and markets surgical products, many of which are based on our minimally invasive patented Coblation® technology. We seek to capitalize on market opportunities across several medical specialties, improve many existing soft-tissue surgical procedures and enable new minimally invasive procedures. Our innovative technologies improve the lives of individuals as diverse as world class athletes suffering from torn rotator cuffs to senior citizens suffering from herniated discs and children suffering from tonsillitis. We incorporated in California in 1993 and reincorporated in Delaware in 1995. Our objective is to expand on our position as a leading global provider of minimally invasive surgical products. We seek to differentiate ourselves in this competitive market by providing our patients and user-physicians with improved treatment options. To accomplish this objective, we are focused on a business strategy featuring the following key elements: •expanding our product offering to address large and rapidly growing domestic and international markets; •improving selected established medical procedures by replacing current technologies with our technologies; •continuing to improve sales and cash flow through a combination of direct sales representatives, independent sales agents and distributors; •augmenting our current business with complementary and compatible acquisitions that allow us to capitalize on emerging and existing business opportunities and strengthen our distribution capability; and •establishing strategic partnerships to develop new products or further commercialize our technologies and products. Business Overview Our business consists of two core product areas: Sports Medicine and Ear Nose and Throat, or ENT. We also manufacture and sell products based on our technology designed for other procedures. Our Sports Medicine, ENT and Other products are marketed and sold through two principal 3 Table of Contents geographic distribution channels: Americas (North and South America) and International (all other geographies). Many of our key products are based on our patented Coblation technology, which uses bipolar radiofrequency energy to generate a precisely focused plasma field to remove and shape soft tissues such as cartilage and tendons. This use of bipolar energy is the primary factor that distinguishes our Coblation technology from traditional monopolar and bipolar radiofrequency surgical tools. Monopolar devices drive electrical energy into the treatment site and requires electrical energy to travel through the patient's body and exit via a grounding pad usually placed underneath the patient. Conversely, traditional bipolar devices include both an active electrode and a return at the tip of the device so a separate grounding pad is not required. To effect treatment by a bipolar device, electrical energy is applied at the surgical site, where it is concentrated at the targeted tissue and exits via the return electrode. These traditional monopolar and bipolar electrosurgical or laser surgery tools use the heat from the electrical current to burn away targeted tissue, often causing thermal damage to tissue surrounding the targeted surgical area. Our bipolar Coblation devices also include both an active and return electrode at the tip but, in contrast to other bipolar devices, apply electrical energy in a conductive medium at the surgical site. The electrical energy along with electrically conductive fluid, which is found in normal saline solutions, form a highly ionized vapor layer, or plasma field, around the active electrode of the Coblation device. This plasma field enables our Coblation-based products to operate at lower operating temperatures than traditional devices, minimizing tissue necrosis and damage when compared to traditional bipolar or monopolar instruments. The use of Coblation allows surgeons to operate with a high level of precision and accuracy to minimize collateral tissue damage. Our Coblation-based systems consist of a controller unit with accessories and an assortment of sterile, single-use disposable devices that are engineered to address specific types of procedures. A single multi-purpose surgical system using Coblation technology can replace the multiple surgical tools traditionally used in soft-tissue surgery procedures. We have applied Coblation technology to soft-tissue surgery throughout the body and commercialize products today, primarily in the areas of arthroscopic sports medicine, ENT, spine and wound debridement applications. We also license our Coblation technology to other companies in a variety of fields of use and may explore the use of Coblation technology in other applications. Sports Medicine Our Sports Medicine product area focuses on the development, production and marketing of advanced energy-based systems and innovative fixation technologies used in the treatment of soft tissue injuries, mostly in shoulders, knees and hips. According to the Truven Health MarketScan® Database, more than 1.7 million surgical procedures are performed each year to address instabilities, impingement, and/or tendon tears of the shoulder while an additional 2.4 million arthroscopic procedures are performed to address cartilage, meniscus, ligament and/or tendon injuries in the knee. Additionally, hip arthroscopy, which now accounts for over 80,000 procedures in the U.S. annually, is widely regarded as one of the fastest growing sub-segments of sports medicine. Sports Medicine is currently our largest product area and product sales accounted for 64.0 percent, 64.3 percent and 65.3 percent of our total revenue in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Included in Sports Medicine product sales are disposable surgical devices and implants based on our technologies that we contract manufacture for other companies. Contract manufacturing represented 10.1 percent, 10.3 percent and 11.0 percent of our Sports Medicine sales in 2012, 2011, and 2010. 4 Table of Contents We attribute our success in Sports Medicine to several factors, including: •a greater emphasis on physical fitness across all demographics and an aging population accustomed to an active lifestyle, which results in an increasing incidence of acute and degenerative joint and soft tissue injuries; •increased patient demand for less invasive surgical procedures allowing for faster recovery and return to activity; •an increase in the proportion of surgical procedures performed arthroscopically; and •an increase in the number of physicians trained in arthroscopic surgical techniques. Sports activities often affect joints that are susceptible to damage from blows, falls or sudden changes in direction, as well as from natural degeneration associated with repeated use and aging. Arthroscopic surgeries are most commonly performed on the knees and shoulders but are also used in the treatment of injuries affecting other joints, such as elbows, wrists, ankles and hips. Prior to the widespread availability of arthroscopic surgery, joint injuries were treated through surgery involving large incisions, and through cutting or dislocating muscles to reach targeted tissues. These open procedures often required a hospital stay and prolonged rehabilitation and recovery. In contrast, arthroscopic surgery is performed through several small incisions, or portals, resulting in lower overall costs, reduced surgical trauma, pain and scarring, and fewer complications. Arthroscopic surgery is often times performed on an outpatient basis with no overnight stay. We believe that the products that we develop, manufacture, market and sell through our Sports Medicine business advance arthroscopic surgery. Our technologies allow surgeons to precisely remove targeted soft-tissue while minimizing collateral tissue damage; facilitate efficient, effective repair of specific anatomical structures; and help restore function and patient activity. Our Sports Medicine Products The ArthroCare Sports Medicine product portfolio includes two proprietary platforms—Coblation and Soft-Tissue Fixation. The products in each platform can be used separately or together in a wide array of clinical applications in the field of Sports Medicine. Coblation. ArthroCare's market-leading Coblation platform has been a principal product line in Sports Medicine and was first introduced for sports medicine applications in 1996. This line features a series of specialized disposable, energy-based surgical wands, called ArthroWands®, designed for single patient use to treat a number of orthopedic conditions, including injuries of the shoulder, knee, hip, foot, ankle, elbow, and wrist. ArthroWands are used with a controller, a software-based generator that provides energy in a precise manner to ablate, resect and sculpt soft tissue and to seal bleeding vessels arthroscopically. ArthroCare's Coblation portfolio includes the Ambient® family of ArthroWands, the only wands on the market today that allow surgeons to interoperatively monitor the temperature of the circulating fluid in the joint. Soft-Tissue Fixation. The acquisitions of Atlantech and Opus Medical, in 2002 and 2004, respectively, provided the foundation for ArthroCare's Soft-Tissue Fixation products. Today the Soft-Tissue Fixation product portfolio includes a broad line of specialized implants and instruments, including knotless and traditional anchors for rotator cuff and labrum repairs in the shoulder, screws for ligament reconstruction in the knee, a variety of arthroscopic suture passers, and a full offering of associated reusable hand-held instruments, procedural kits, and accessories. ArthroCare's Soft Tissue Fixation technologies are designed to enable surgeons to more efficiently and effectively complete repairs arthroscopically that previously may have only been possible using open surgical techniques. On December 31, 2012, we entered into a contract to acquire Eleven Blade Solutions Inc. that will add an all-suture soft anchor technology to our soft-tissue fixation portfolio that can be used in a variety of Sports Medicine procedures. 5 Table of Contents ENT Overview In ENT, we focus on the development, production and marketing of surgical products used in the treatment of conditions typically performed by ENT surgeons. Our ENT product sales accounted for 28.7 percent, 28.2 percent, and 26.5 percent of our total revenue during 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. One of the most common ENT procedures which utilize our products is the removal of tonsils and adenoids, and according to the Truven Health MarketScan® Database there are more than 700,000 tonsillectomies performed in the U.S. each year. Other commonly performed ENT procedures include endoscopic sinus surgery, turbinate reduction and procedures to treat sleep disorders. These procedures are performed by ENT surgeons in hospitals and ambulatory surgery centers. Historically, monopolar electrocautery devices, or bovies, were the standard surgical tool used for the removal, or ablation, of soft tissue and cauterization during ENT procedures. We have developed a variety of products for use by ENT surgeons for general head, neck and oral surgical procedures, including sinus surgery, the treatment of snoring, reduction of nasal turbinates, and tonsil and adenoid removal. Today, we estimate that approximately 30 percent of all US tonsil and adenoid procedures are performed using our products. Our ENT Products Coblation. We market three categories of disposable devices, or wands, to address the ENT market—suction wands, channeling wands and excision wands, each of which use Coblation technology and provide significant benefits over bovies and similar devices. During a tonsillectomy, suction wands simultaneously ablate and remove tissue providing the surgeon enhanced visibility and shorter anesthesia time. Channeling wands provide controlled ablation and thermal coagulation during turbinate reduction procedures to relieve nasal obstructions and stiffen the soft palate for the treatment of snoring. Excision wands provide precise dissection of soft tissue with minimal damage to surrounding tissue. Nasal Dressings. In 2005, we completed the purchase of substantially all of the assets of Applied Therapeutics, Inc., or ATI, a maker of sinus surgery treatment products, that are complementary to our ENT devices. ATI's carboxymethyl-cellulose based packing and tamponade products are used in situations of significant nosebleed, or epistaxis, treatments which are treated in an emergency room setting or surgicenter. Our Rapid Rhino® product line includes the dissolvable Stammberger Sinus Dressing and Sinu Knit, which are used after endoscopic sinus surgery to control minor bleeding, facilitate epithelial healing and preserve the spatial integrity of the sinus area. Our Rapid Rhino product line also includes epistaxis balloon tamponade products, which are used primarily in the hospital emergency room environment to control severe nosebleeds. Other We develop, produce and market surgical products used in other procedures. Other product sales accounted for 2.5 percent, 2.7 percent and 3.5 percent of our total revenue during 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. SpineWand® Product Line. The SpineWand devices use Coblation technology to treat soft tissue (intervertebral disc and vertebrae) conditions in the spine. Disc decompression, a common soft tissue minimally-invasive treatment for herniated discs, involves the removal of disc material either through a narrow tube, or cannula, or through a small surgical incision. Our Plasma Disc Decompression, or PDD, SpineWands are used for the treatment of contained herniated discs. The PDD SpineWands remove portions of these herniated discs to relieve pressure on major spinal nerves in either large or small disc spaces, and allow the removal of soft tissue in the spine through a much smaller incision. 6 Table of Contents The Cavity SpineWand® is used to reduce the size of malignant lesions within the vertebrae in patients suffering from spinal compression fractures resulting from benign or malignant tumors. WoundWand® Debridement Device. The WoundWand was Conformité Européenne, or CE, marked in 2010 making it available for distribution in Europe. The WoundWand is intended for wound debridement in acute and chronic wounds and wound cleansing by removal of necrotic tissue in a precise and controlled manner. Our Customers and Competition Our primary customers across all of our product areas are surgeons and other specialized medical professionals who utilize our products to treat their patients. Our primary competitors include Medtronic, Inc., Smith & Nephew, Stryker Corporation, Johnson & Johnson, Olympus (through their subsidiary Gyrus) and Arthrex, Inc. These competitors tend to be large, well-financed companies with diverse product lines. In the Sports Medicine market, we also compete directly with competitors to whom we have licensed our technology. For additional discussion of the risks and considerations concerning our competition, see "Part I—Item 1A—Risk Factors." Our Distribution Network Distribution in the Americas We sell our Sports Medicine products in North America through a network of employee sales representatives and independent sales agents. We sell our ENT products in the U.S. exclusively through employee sales representatives. As of December 31, 2012, for these two core business areas our Americas sales organization approximated 260 people, including sales management. In South America, we sell our products through independent distributors. Sales in the Americas accounted for 68.4 percent, 69.0 percent and 72.0 percent of our consolidated product sales during 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We continually evaluate the regional and territorial performance in order to maximize our ability to cover and increase our customer base and improve the efficiency of our product sales efforts. For the year ended December 31, 2012, approximately 54 percent of Americas product sales in dollars were from employee sales representatives and the remainder was from independent sales agents or distributors. Distribution in International International sales accounted for 31.6 percent, 31.0 percent and 28.0 percent of our consolidated product sales during 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. In several countries in Western Europe and in Australia and Singapore, we have subsidiaries that sell our products direct to end users of our products. In other markets, we sell our products to independent distributors who import and sell our products in the country to end users or other sub-distributors who retain the risk of inventory obsolescence and collection from their customers. We may expand the number of markets where we sell our products direct to end users in the future. For the year ended December 31, 2012, approximately 80.1 percent of international sales were derived from direct markets where we manage the relationship with our end customers and the remainder of our International sales are to independent distributors and agents. 7 Table of Contents Geographic Information Product sales and long-lived assets attributable to significant geographic areas are presented in Note 17, "Segment Information" in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Research and Development We conduct our research and development activities in the U.S. on two campuses in Irvine, California and Austin, Texas. Research and development expenses as reported includes experimental research, new product development, process enhancements, process engineering, quality engineering, regulatory affairs and clinical studies and were in aggregate 8.7 percent, 8.2 percent and 10.1 percent of our total revenues during 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Our efforts are focused on: •modifying and enhancing the performance of our existing technologies and products, including our processes to manufacture these products; •designing new surgical devices that incorporate additional functionalities; •developing new applications of our Coblation and other innovative technologies and •developing complementary technologies and products for introduction into our product portfolio in order to provide more value to our customers and participate to a greater extent in certain surgical procedures. We may continue to explore and develop the plasma physics underlying our Coblation technology and evaluate the use of our technology in new fields of treatment. We are engaged with a number of doctors, scientists and research institutions to further understand the technology and expand its applications base and technical capability. To facilitate our research and development efforts, we routinely receive feedback from physicians who use our products and consult with product area specific Scientific Advisory Boards, which are comprised of experienced physicians, surgeons and scientists who advise us on our products, current and prospective, and other areas relating to our medical devices. These medical professionals are valued contributors and advisors to our research and development process and their feedback allows us to achieve significant strides in our product development. Manufacturing and Supply Our products are primarily manufactured at our facility located in San Jose, Costa Rica. We believe our existing operations will provide adequate capacity for our manufacturing needs at least through 2013. We have established manufacturing process and quality assurance systems in conformance with the International Organization for Standardization's ISO 13485:2003 standard, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration's, or FDA, Quality System Regulation, 21 CFR Part 820 and we are certified under the Canadian Medical Devices Conformity Assessment System. Our facilities are in conformance with domestic and international regulatory requirements that apply to medical device manufacturers and subject to audits by FDA, Technischer Überwachungs-Verein, or TUV, a Notified Body per the Medical Device Directive for the European Union, and other regulatory agencies representing countries in which our products are registered to be sold. Our products are manufactured from several components, most of which are supplied to us from third parties. Many of the components we use in the manufacture of our products are available from more than one qualified supplier. For some components, however, there are relatively few alternative sources of supply and the establishment of additional or replacement suppliers may not be accomplished quickly. In some cases, we rely upon a single supplier for a component. In such cases, a 8 Table of Contents disruption from our single supply source could materially affect and disrupt our ability to manufacture and distribute certain of our products, as we experienced in the latter half of 2011 with our Rapid Rhino products. Patents and Proprietary Rights We own 171 issued U.S. patents and 197 issued international patents. In addition, we have 110 U.S. and international pending patent applications. We believe our issued patents are directed at, among other things, the core technology used in our soft-tissue surgery systems, including both multi-electrode and single electrode configurations of our disposable devices, as well as the use of Coblation technology in many different surgical procedures. In addition, our issued patents are directed at many of the core features of our acquired technologies from Opus, Atlantech, Parallax and ATI. Our earliest Coblation-related patents expired in January of 2012. The majority of our royalty income is associated with licenses that include core Coblation patent rights which extend through the end of 2015. A portion of license royalty revenue is associated with license grants from patents rights that extend beyond 2017. In addition to patents, we hold intellectual property that we believe has significant value and provides us with competitive advantages in the form of copyrights, know-how, trademarks and customer relationships. See "Part I—Item 1A—Risk Factors" and Intangible Asset information outlined in Note 7, "Goodwill and Intangible Assets" in the notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Government Regulation U.S. Our products are considered medical devices and are subject to extensive regulation in the U.S. We must comply with FDA regulations to market our products or obtain pre-market clearance or approval by the FDA for each of our products and indications before they can be commercialized. FDA regulations are wide-ranging and govern, among other things: product design and development; product testing; product labeling; product storage; premarket clearance or approval; advertising and promotion; and product sales and distribution. Non-compliance with applicable regulatory requirements can result in enforcement action, which may include: warning letters; fines, injunctions and civil penalties against us; recall or seizure of our products; operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of our production; refusing our requests for premarket clearance or approval of new products; withdrawing product approvals already granted; and criminal prosecution. Unless an exemption applies, generally, before we can introduce a new medical device or a new use for a medical device into the U.S. market, we must obtain FDA clearance of a premarket notification 510(k) or obtain premarket approval, or PMA. If we can establish that our device is "substantially equivalent" to a pre-amendment or previously cleared device for which the FDA has not called for premarket approvals, we may seek clearance from the FDA to market the device by submitting a 510(k). The 510(k) requires the support of appropriate data, including, in some cases, clinical data establishing the claim of substantial equivalence to the satisfaction of the FDA. Where a product is not deemed as substantially equivalent to a pre-amendment or previously cleared device, a more rigorous premarket approval process, or a PMA process, is required. This PMA process requires us to independently demonstrate that the new medical device is safe and effective by collecting data regarding design, materials, bench and animal testing, and human clinical data for the medical device. Only if the FDA determines there is reasonable assurance that the medical device is safe and effective, will the FDA authorize the device's commercial release. The premarket approval process is much more detailed, time-consuming and expensive than the 510(k) process. 9 Table of Contents We have received 510(k) clearance to the extent we believe it is required for applicable products for a variety of indications. We strive to ensure that our products not requiring clearance meet our manufacturing and quality guidelines and standards to the same extent as if clearance were required. Our products and the facilities manufacturing our products are subject to continued review and periodic inspections by the FDA. Each U.S. device-manufacturing establishment must be registered with the FDA. Domestic manufacturing establishments are subject to biannual inspections by the FDA, and must comply with the FDA's quality system regulations. Further, we must report adverse events involving our devices to the FDA under regulations issued by the FDA. Failure to maintain compliance with the regulatory requirements of the FDA may result in administrative or judicial actions, such as fines, warning letters, holds on clinical studies, product recalls or seizures, product detention or refusal to permit the import or export of products, refusal to approve pending applications or supplements, restrictions on marketing or manufacturing, injunctions, or civil or criminal penalties. Federal healthcare laws apply when we or our customers submit claims for items or services that are reimbursed under Medicare, Medicaid or other federally funded healthcare programs. The principal federal laws include: (1) the False Claims Act which prohibits the submission of false or otherwise improper claims for payment to a federally funded healthcare program; (2) the Anti-Kickback Statute which prohibits offers to pay or receive remuneration of any kind for the purpose of inducing or rewarding referrals of items or services reimbursable by a Federal healthcare program; (3) the Stark law which prohibits physicians from referring Medicare or Medicaid patients to a provider that bills these programs for the provision of certain designated health services if the physician (or a member of the physician's immediate family) has a financial relationship with that provider; and (4) healthcare fraud statutes that prohibit false statements and improper claims with any third party payor. Often similar state laws also apply to claims submitted under state Medicaid or state funded healthcare programs. Some states, such as California, Massachusetts and Vermont, mandate implementation of corporate compliance programs to ensure compliance with these laws. In addition, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act can be used to prosecute companies in the U.S. for arrangements with physicians, or other parties outside the U.S. if the physician or party is a government official of another country and the arrangement violates the law of that country. The federal False Claims Act imposes civil liability on individuals or entities that submit false or fraudulent claims for payment to the government. Violations of the False Claims Act may result in treble damages, civil monetary penalties for each false claim submitted and exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. In addition, we could be subject to criminal penalties under a variety of federal statutes to the extent that we knowingly violate legal requirements under federal health programs or otherwise present false or fraudulent claims or documentation to the government. The False Claims Act also allows a private individual to bring a qui tam suit on behalf of the government against a health care provider for violations of the False Claims Act. A qui tam suit may be brought by, with only a few exceptions, any private citizen who has material information of a false claim that has not yet been previously disclosed. Even if disclosed, the original source of the information leading to the public disclosure may still pursue such a suit. Although a corporate insider is often the plaintiff in such actions, an increasing number of outsiders are pursuing such suits. In a qui tam suit, the private plaintiff is responsible for initiating a lawsuit that may eventually lead to the government recovering what it paid as a result of allegedly false claims. After the private plaintiff has initiated the lawsuit, the government must decide whether to intervene in the lawsuit and become the primary prosecutor. In the event the government declines to join the lawsuit, the private plaintiff may choose to pursue the case alone, in which case the private plaintiff's counsel will have primary control over the prosecution (although the government must be kept apprised of the progress of the lawsuit and will still receive at least 70% of any recovered amounts). Qui tam complaints are 10 Table of Contents filed under seal and generally remain under seal during the pendency of an investigation of the allegations. During that time, certain documents filed by the private plaintiff may not be accessible or certain documents and/or information may only be provided subject to an order of the presiding court that disallows publicly disclosing the existence of or any details relating to the proceeding until the case is unsealed. In return for bringing the suit on the government's behalf, the statute provides that the private plaintiff is to receive up to 30% of the recovered amount from the litigation proceeds if the litigation is successful. The number of qui tam suits brought against health care providers has increased dramatically. In addition, many states have enacted laws modeled after the False Claims Act that allow those states to recover money which was fraudulently obtained by a health care provider from the state (e.g., Medicaid funds provided by the state). The laws applicable to us are subject to change and to evolving interpretations. To help build more consistent business practices, we have implemented a corporate-wide compliance program that intends to conform business practices throughout our business areas to applicable laws and regulations. For additional discussion of the risks and considerations surrounding our business in the context of our regulatory environment, see "Part I—Item 1A—Risk Factors." International International sales of our products are also subject to extensive regulation. The regulatory review process varies from country to country. The member countries of the European Union, or EU, have adopted the European Medical Device Directives, which create a single set of medical device regulations for all EU member countries. These regulations require companies that wish to manufacture and distribute medical devices in EU member countries to obtain the CE mark for their products. We have authorization to apply the CE mark to substantially all of our products. Additionally, we have obtained regulatory clearance to market our key products throughout other countries. In addition, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act can be used to prosecute companies in the U.S. for arrangements with physicians, or other parties outside the U.S. if the physician or party is a government official of another country and the arrangement violates the law of that country. Other international laws such as the U.K. Anti-Bribery Act provide further restrictions on interactions with physicians and other potential customers. General Considerations The demand for our products is highly dependent on the policies of third-party payors such as Medicare, Medicaid, and private insurance and managed care organizations that reimburse our customers when they use our products. If coverage or payment policies of these third-party payors are revised in light of increased efforts to control healthcare spending or otherwise, the amount we may charge or the demand for our products may decrease. Government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, private healthcare insurance and managed-care plans have attempted and continue to attempt to control costs by limiting the amount of reimbursement they will pay for particular procedures or treatments. This practice has increased price sensitivity among certain customers for our products. Additionally, some third-party payors require approval of coverage for new or innovative devices or therapies before they will reimburse healthcare providers who use the medical devices or therapies. Even though a new medical device may have been approved for commercial distribution, we may find limited demand for the device until reimbursement approval has been obtained from governmental and private third-party payors. In the U.S., we believe that healthcare reform legislation proposals will most likely remain focused on reducing the cost of healthcare and that efforts by private payors to contain costs through managed care and other methods will continue in the future as efforts to reform the healthcare system continue. We believe we can effectively respond to reasonable changes 11 Table of Contents resulting from the worldwide trend toward cost containment due to our manufacturing efficiencies and cost controls. However, it is difficult for us to predict the potential impact of cost containment trends on future operating results due to uncertainty that remains regarding future legislation. Impact of Business Outside of the U.S. Our operations in countries outside the U.S. are accompanied by certain financial and other risks. Relationships with customers and effective terms of sale vary by country, sometimes with longer payment terms on receivables than are typical in the U.S. Currency exchange rate fluctuations can affect the U.S. dollar value of net sales from, and profitability of, our operations outside the U.S. See "Part II—Item 7A—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" and Note 17, "Segment Information" in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Product Liability Risk and Insurance Coverage The development, manufacture and sale of medical products entail significant risk of product liability claims. Historically our product liability insurance coverage limits have been adequate to protect us from significant liabilities being imposed on us in connection with product liability claims. However, we cannot be assured that our current product liability insurance coverage limits will continue to be adequate, and we may require increased product liability coverage as products are successfully commercialized in additional applications. Product liability insurance is expensive and in the future may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to attract and retain customers for our products. We also have directors and officers, comprehensive general liability, cargo, business property and interruption, worker compensation, employed lawyers, employment practices, crime, and special contingency insurance coverage. Employees We have approximately 1,700 employees. In North America, we have approximately 450 employees, of which 19 were engaged in supply and logistics activities, 153 in research and development, process engineering, clinical affairs, regulatory affairs and quality assurance activities, 199 in sales, customer service and marketing activities, and 80 in administration, finance and corporate support functions. In Europe and Asia Pacific, we had approximately 225 employees responsible for our international markets. In Costa Rica, we had approximately 1,025 employees engaged in manufacturing and plant management. We have no employees covered by collective bargaining agreements, and we believe we maintain good relations with our employees. Where You Can Find Additional Information We maintain an internet website at www.arthrocare.com. On our website, we make available, free of charge, the following filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC: our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. You may also read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Our reports, proxy statements and other documents filed electronically with the SEC are available at the website maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov. 12 Table of Contents Forward Looking Statements This Annual Report may include "forward-looking" statements. Forward-looking statements broadly involve our current expectations or forecasts of future results. Our forward-looking statements generally relate to our growth and growth strategies, financial results, product development, regulatory approvals, competitive strengths, intellectual property rights, litigation and tax matters, mergers and acquisitions, market acceptance of our products, accounting estimates, financing activities, ongoing contractual obligations and sales efforts. Such statements can be identified by the use of terminology such as "anticipate," "believe," "could," "estimate," "expect," "forecast," "intend," "may," "plan," "possible," "project," "should," "will" and similar words or expressions. For more information about the nature of forward-looking statements and risks that could affect our future results and the disclosure provided in this Annual Report, please see "Part I—Item 1A—Risk Factors" and Exhibit 99.1—Forward-Looking Statements, which is incorporated herein by reference. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This section identifies specific risks that should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. Any of these risks could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Although we believe that these risks represent the material risks relevant to us, our business and our industry, new material risks may emerge that we are currently unable to predict. As a result, this description of the risks that affect our business and our industry is not exhaustive. The risks discussed below could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical results or the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements as described above. The restatement of our previous financial statements announced in 2008 and completed in 2009, the Audit Committee's review of certain accounting, financial reporting and insurance billing and healthcare compliance practices and the DOJ and other investigations, legal and administrative proceedings have increased our costs and could result in fines, injunctions, orders, and penalties which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. As of December 31, 2012, we have settled or reached settlement on all known proceedings against the Company arising from the restatement or the Review with the exception of the ongoing investigation by the Department of Justice, or the DOJ investigation. See Note 10, "Litigation and Contingencies," in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. We have incurred substantial costs and expenses related to the Audit Committee's review of certain accounting, financial and reporting and insurance billing and healthcare compliance practices, and resulting investigations, proceedings, and indemnity obligations to former officers and to certain other employees and former employees. These matters may continue to divert our management's time and attention periodically and cause us to continue to incur substantial costs and expenses which will be funded without the benefit of further insurance coverage. The DOJ investigation could also lead to fines, injunctions or orders with respect to future activities. We could incur substantial additional costs to defend and resolve the investigation or proceedings arising out of or related to the investigation. Two of our former officers have been indicted by the DOJ and we could incur substantial additional costs advancing legal defense costs to these former officers as required by indemnity obligations with these former officers. In addition, we could be exposed to enforcement or other actions upon completion of the DOJ investigation. At this point, we are unable to predict the scope or result of the investigation or whether any other federal or state agencies will commence any further investigation or legal action. Any such investigations may result in us being subject to criminal and civil penalties and other remedial measures, which could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We had entered 13 Table of Contents into a statute of limitations tolling agreement with the DOJ effective until February 1, 2013. On January 30, 2013, we and the DOJ mutually agreed to extend the tolling of the statute of limitations to March 1, 2013. We are subject to substantial government regulation that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our failure to comply with extensive and evolving government regulations and laws could result in enforcement actions and subject us to civil or criminal penalties and materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our medical device products and operations are subject to extensive regulation by numerous governmental authorities both in the U.S. and abroad. See "Business—Government Regulation" for further details on such regulation. Government regulations and foreign requirements specific to medical devices are wide ranging and govern, among other things: design, development and manufacturing; testing, labeling and storage; clinical trials; product safety; marketing, sales and distribution; pre-market clearance and approval; record keeping procedures; advertising and promotions; recalls and field corrective actions; post-market surveillance, including reporting of deaths or serious injuries and malfunctions that, if they were to recur, could lead to death or serious injury; and product import and export. During the past several years, the U.S. health care industry has been subject to an increase in governmental regulation at both the federal and state levels. We are subject to numerous federal and state regulations. As part of our internal compliance program, we review our sales and marketing materials, contracts and programs with counsel, and require employees and marketing representatives to participate in regular training. We also have adopted and train our personnel on the Code of Ethics on Interactions with Health Care Professionals promulgated by the Advanced Medical Technology Association or AdvaMed, a leading trade association representing medical device manufacturers. We believe our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the "Code of Ethics") qualifies as a "code of ethics" within the meaning of Section 406 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and under the current Federal Sentencing Guidelines and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General's Compliance Program Guidance for Pharmaceutical Manufacturers (68 FR 23731 (May 5, 2003)) applicable to medical device companies. The Code of Ethics applies to all of our directors, officers, employees and agents and serves as an essential element of our Corporate Compliance Program. However, we can give no assurances that our compliance program will ensure that the Company is in compliance with existing or future applicable laws and regulations. If our compliance program fails to meet its objectives, or if we otherwise fail to comply with existing or future applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties. We devote significant operational and managerial resources to comply with these laws and regulations. Different interpretations and enforcement policies of these laws and regulations could subject our current practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make significant changes to our products and operations. In addition, we cannot predict the impact of future legislation and regulatory changes on our business or assure you that we will be able to obtain or maintain the regulatory approvals required to operate our business. Both federal and state government agencies conduct civil and criminal enforcement efforts against health care companies, as well as their executives and managers. These efforts generally relate to a wide variety of matters, including referral and billing practices, and implicate a variety of state and federal laws, including state insurance fraud provisions, common law fraud theories, as well as both state and federal fraud-and-abuse, anti-kickback, false claims statutes, and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar international anti-bribery laws and regulations with which we must comply. Although we no longer directly bill any payor, some of our prior activities could become the subject of additional governmental investigations or inquiries. In addition, even though we no longer directly bill 14 Table of Contents any payor, we are still subject to health care fraud and abuse laws and regulations, and enforcement thereof by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. In addition, amendments to the False Claims Act have made it easier for private parties to bring "qui tam" whistleblower lawsuits against companies. Numerous states have adopted similar state whistleblower and false claims provisions. The federal False Claims Act provides incentives for private plaintiffs to initiate lawsuits that lead to the government recovering money of which it was defrauded by providing that a private plaintiff may receive up to 30% of the proceeds from a successful litigation. If we, as a defendant in a qui tam lawsuit, are found to have violated the False Claims Act, we could be subject to treble damages, civil monetary penalties for each false claim submitted and exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. In addition, we could be subject to criminal penalties under a variety of federal statutes to the extent that we knowingly violate legal requirements under federal health programs or otherwise present false or fraudulent claims or documentation to the government. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. Moreover, recent health care reform legislation has strengthened these laws. For example, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) which was signed into law in March 2010, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback and criminal health care fraud statutes; a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. The PPACA legislation, among other things, imposes a new excise tax on medical device makers effective January 1, 2013 which will result in a reduction in our results of operations and our cash flows. Other elements of this legislation such as comparative effectiveness research, an independent payment advisory board, payment system reforms including shared savings pilots and other provisions could significantly change the way healthcare is developed and delivered, and may materially impact many aspects of our business. We expect there will continue to be federal and state laws and/or regulations, proposed and implemented, that could impact our operations and business. The extent to which future legislation or regulations if any relating to health care fraud abuse laws and/or enforcement may be enacted or what effect such legislation or regulation would have on our business remains uncertain. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from governmental health care programs, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. The FDA, DOJ and other governmental authorities have broad enforcement powers, and if our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulatory requirements, or if a governmental authority interprets the legality of one of our practices differently than we do, it could result in governmental agencies or a court taking action, which would adversely affect our business through any of the following: issuing public warning letters to us; imposing fines and penalties on us; obtaining an injunction preventing us from manufacturing or selling our products; bringing civil or criminal charges against us; delaying the introduction of our products into the market; delaying pending requests for clearance or approval of new uses or modifications to our existing products; recalling, detaining or seizing our products; or withdrawing or denying approvals or clearances for our products. For example, we and certain of our third-party suppliers are required to comply with the FDA's Quality System Regulation, ("QSR") which covers the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, sterilization, storage and shipping of our products. We and our suppliers are also subject to the regulations of foreign jurisdictions regarding the manufacturing process if we market our products in these jurisdictions. The FDA enforces the QSR through periodic and unannounced inspections of manufacturing facilities. If our facilities or those of our suppliers fail to take satisfactory corrective 15 Table of Contents action in response to an adverse QSR inspection, the FDA could take enforcement action, including any of the aforementioned actions. Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects. Our ability to compete effectively depends in part on developing and maintaining the proprietary aspects of our Coblation technology and our acquired technologies. We believe that our issued patents are directed at the core technology used in our soft-tissue surgery systems, as well as the use of Coblation technology in specific surgical procedures. In addition, we believe that our issued patents are directed at many of the core features of our acquired technologies (Opus, Atlantech and Applied Therapeutics, Inc.) Our earliest Coblation-related patent expired in January of 2012. The majority of our royalty income is associated with licenses that include core Coblation patent rights which extend through the end of 2015. A portion of license royalty revenue is associated with license grants from patents rights that extend beyond 2017. However, one licensee asserted in early 2012 that their license obligations expired in January 2012. Subsequently, this dispute was resolved and the licensee will continue to pay royalties into 2015. However, other licensees may in the future similarly attempt to assert that their license obligations end at an earlier date than we believe which may lead us to incur significant legal and dispute resolution costs to defend our right to royalties under our existing licenses. There is no assurance that the patents we have obtained, or any patents we may obtain as a result of our pending U.S. or international patent applications, will provide adequate protection to insure any competitive advantages for our products. We also cannot assure investors that those patents will not be successfully challenged, invalidated or circumvented prior to their expiration. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that competitors, many of which have substantial resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, have not already applied for or obtained, or will not seek to apply for and obtain, patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use and sell our products either in the U.S. or in international markets. In Sports Medicine, many of our competitors have licensed our technology for limited fields of use. Patent applications are maintained in secrecy for a period after filing. We may not be aware of all of the patents and patent applications potentially adverse to our interests. A number of medical device and other companies, universities and research institutions have filed patent applications or have issued patents relating to monopolar and/or bipolar electrosurgical methods and apparatus. We have received, and we may receive in the future, notifications of potential conflicts of existing patents, pending patent applications and challenges to the validity of existing patents. In addition, we have become aware of, and may become aware of in the future, patent applications and issued patents that relate to our products and/or the surgical applications and issued patents and, in some cases, have obtained internal and/or external opinions of counsel regarding the relevance of certain issued patents to our products. We do not believe that our products currently infringe any valid and enforceable claims of the issued patents that we have reviewed. However, if third-party patents or patent applications contain claims infringed by our technology and such claims are ultimately determined to be valid, we may not be able to obtain licenses to those patents at a reasonable cost, if at all, or be able to develop or obtain alternative technology. Our inability to do either would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects. We cannot assure investors that we will not have to defend ourselves in court against allegations of infringement of third-party patents, or that such defense would be successful. In addition to patents, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how, which we seek to protect, in part, through confidentiality and proprietary information agreements. We require our employees and technical consultants to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of an employment or consulting relationship with us. These agreements generally provide that all confidential information, developed or made known to the individual during the course of the 16 Table of Contents individual's relationship with us, is to be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties. These agreements also generally provide that inventions conceived by the individual in the course of rendering services to us shall be our exclusive property. We cannot assure investors that employees and consultants will not breach such agreements, that we would have adequate remedies for any breach or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known to or be independently developed by competitors. We may in the future be subject to intellectual property claims, which are costly to defend, could require us to pay damages and could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. A number of medical device and other companies, universities and research institutions have filed patent applications or have issued patents relating to monopolar and/or bipolar electrosurgical methods and apparatus. We have received, and we may receive in the future, notifications of potential conflicts of existing patents, pending patent applications and challenges to the validity of existing patents. In addition, we have become aware of, and may become aware of in the future, patent applications and issued patents that relate to our products and/or the surgical applications and issued patents and, in some cases, have obtained internal and/or external opinions of counsel regarding the relevance of certain issued patents to our products. We do not believe that our products currently infringe any valid and enforceable claims of the issued patents that we have reviewed. However, if third-party patents or patent applications contain claims infringed by our technology and such claims are ultimately determined to be valid, we may not be able to obtain licenses to those patents at a reasonable cost, if at all, or be able to develop or obtain alternative technology. Our inability to do either would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects. We cannot assure investors that we will not have to defend ourselves in court against allegations of infringement of third-party patents, or that such defense would be successful. We cannot assure you that we will not become subject to patent infringement claims or other litigation, including interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, (USPTO) or similar proceedings in foreign jurisdictions to determine the priority of inventions. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property lawsuits, USPTO reexamination and interference proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings, generally are costly and time-consuming. If other parties violate our proprietary rights, further litigation may be necessary to enforce our patents, to protect trade secrets or know-how we own or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Any litigation or reexamination or interference proceedings will be costly and cause significant diversion of effort by our technical and management personnel. An adverse determination in existing claims, additional litigation or reexamination or interference proceedings to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties or require us to cease using certain technology. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that we could obtain necessary licenses on satisfactory terms, if at all. Adverse determinations in judicial or administrative proceedings or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future growth prospects. We may not be able to successfully introduce to the market new products in a timely manner, which could cause us to lose business to competitors. We compete in a market characterized by rapidly changing technology. We may not be able to keep pace with technology or to develop viable new products. Our future financial performance will depend in part on our ability to develop and manufacture new products in a cost-effective manner, to introduce these products to the market on a timely basis, and to achieve market acceptance of these products. Factors which may result in delays of new product introductions or cancellation of our plans to manufacture and market new products include capital constraints, research and development delays, 17 Table of Contents and delays in acquiring regulatory approvals. Our new products and new product introductions may fail to achieve expected levels of market acceptance. Factors impacting the level of market acceptance include our ability to successfully implement new technologies, the timeliness of our product introductions, our product pricing strategies, our available financial and technological resources for product promotion and development, our ability to show clinical benefit from our products, and the availability of coverage and reimbursement for our products as discussed in the risk factor titled "Changes in coverage and reimbursement for procedures using our products could affect use of our devices and our future revenue" below. The markets for our products are intensely competitive, which may result in our competitors developing technologies and products that are more effective than ours or that make our technologies and products obsolete. Many of our competitors have significantly greater resources and market power than we do. Our primary competitors across all of our operating units consist of Medtronic, Inc., Smith & Nephew, Stryker Corporation, Johnson & Johnson, Olympus (through their Gyrus subsidiary), and Arthrex, Inc. These competitors tend to be large, well-financed companies with diverse product lines who may have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and technical resources than we do. Some of these companies offer broad product lines that they may offer as a single package and frequently offer significant price discounts as a competitive tactic. Furthermore, some of our competitors utilize purchasing contracts that link discounts on the purchase of one product to purchases of other products in their broad product lines. Many of the hospitals in the U.S. have purchasing contracts with our competitors. Accordingly, customers may be dissuaded from purchasing our products instead of our competitors' products to the extent the purchase would cause them to lose discounts on our competitors' products. In addition, we are aware of several small companies that may directly or indirectly compete with our products. If we were to be unable to continue to compete for any of the above reasons, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects. Until we resolve our contingencies, we may not have access to a cost effective credit facility and we will be required to fund our working capital needs and planned expenditures with cash on hand. Our ability to generate cash in the future depends on many factors including those factors described in this Annual Report. In the absence of a credit facility as a possible source of liquidity, our ability to meet our working capital needs and to fund capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash from operations and effectively manage our cash balances. Our ability to continue to generate cash from operations is subject to general economic, financial, competitive and other factors that may be beyond our control. We are unable to predict the outcome of the ongoing DOJ investigation with which we are cooperating and this matter could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and cash flows. See Note 10, "Litigation and Contingencies," in the notes to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion on this matter and other legal proceedings. As a result, from time to time, we may be required to seek financing from alternative sources. We cannot assure you that such alternative funding will be available to us on terms and conditions acceptable to us, or at all. In addition, we maintain deposit accounts with numerous financial institutions around the world in amounts that exceed applicable governmental deposit insurance levels. While we actively monitor our deposit relationships, the unanticipated failure of a financial institution in which we maintain deposits could cause us to suffer losses that could materially harm our results of operations and financial condition. 18 Table of Contents Failure to obtain FDA clearance or approval for our products could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and future growth prospects. The U.S. is the largest single market in which we sell our products. In the U.S., before we can market a new medical device, or a new use of, or claim for, or significant modification to an existing product, we must first receive either premarket clearance under Section 510(k) of the U.S. Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, or approval of a Premarket Approval (PMA) submission from the FDA, unless an exemption applies. In the 510(k) clearance process, the FDA must determine that a proposed device is "substantially equivalent" to a device legally on the market, known as a "predicate" device, with respect to intended use, technology and safety and effectiveness, in order to clear the proposed device for marketing. Clinical data is sometimes required to support substantial equivalence. However, as was the case in our submission for 510(k) clearance of Coblator IQ ENT Plasma Wands, the FDA has a high degree of latitude when determining the amount of data it requires as part of determination and evaluation of submissions and may determine that a proposed device submitted for 510(k) clearance is not substantially equivalent, or NSE, to a predicate device. An FDA NSE determination means that the device is automatically reclassified into Class III and we cannot market the device unless it is either approved through the PMA process or reclassified into Class I or Class II based on a new 501(k) submission with supporting data. A new submission may require clinical data. In addition, under new changes instituted by the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act of 2012, or FDASIA, FDA may now change the classification of a medical device by administrative order, following a device classification panel meeting and public comment on the proposed reclassification. The PMA approval pathway requires an applicant to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the device based, in part, on data obtained in clinical trials. Both of these processes can be expensive and lengthy and entail significant user fees, unless exempt. The FDA's 510(k) clearance process usually takes from three to twelve months, but it can last longer. The process of obtaining PMA approval is much more costly and uncertain than the 510(k) clearance process. It generally takes from one to three years, or even longer, from the time the PMA application is submitted to the FDA until an approval is obtained. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain FDA clearance or approval for any of our new products on a timely basis, or at all. Failure to obtain FDA clearance or approval for our new products could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and future growth prospects. After a device receives 510(k) premarket notification clearance from the FDA, any modification that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in the intended use of the device, technology, materials, packaging, and certain manufacturing processes may require a new 510(k) clearance or PMA. The FDA requires every manufacturer to make the determination regarding the need for a new 510(k) clearance or PMA approval in the first instance, but the FDA may review any manufacturer's decision and may retroactively require the manufacturer to submit a premarket notification requesting 510(k) clearance or an application for PMA approval. The FDA also can require the manufacturer to cease marketing and/or recall the modified device until 510(k) clearance or approval is obtained. FDA guidance documents, including a draft guidance issued on July 27, 2011 that has yet to become final, define when to submit premarket notifications for new or modified devices. These guidance documents also define modifications for which a new 510(k) is not required. We have modified some of our marketed devices, and have determined that in certain instances new 510(k) clearances or PMA approvals are not required. No assurance can be made that the FDA would agree with any of our decisions not to seek 510(k) clearance or PMA approval. If the FDA requires us to cease marketing and/or recall the modified device until we obtain a new 510(k) clearance or PMA approval, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects could be materially adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents We may be subject to fines, penalties or injunctions if we are determined to be promoting the use of our products for unapproved or "off-label" uses, which would adversely affect our financial condition. Our promotional materials and training methods must comply with FDA regulations and other applicable laws and regulations, including the prohibition of the promotion of a medical device for a use that has not been cleared or approved by the FDA. Use of a device outside its cleared or approved indications is known as "off-label" use. Physicians may use our products off-label, as the FDA does not restrict or regulate a physician's choice of treatment within the practice of medicine. However, if the FDA determines that our promotional materials or training constitutes the promotion of an off-label use, it could subject us to certain sanctions ranging from a request that we modify our training or promotional materials to further regulatory or enforcement actions, including the issuance of an untitled letter, a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and/or criminal penalties against us or our officers or employees. It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they consider our promotional or training materials to constitute promotion of an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. In that event, our reputation could be damaged and adoption of the products would be impaired. Although our policy is to refrain from statements that could be considered off-label promotion of our products, the FDA or another regulatory agency could disagree and conclude that we have engaged in off-label promotion. In addition, the off-label use of our products may increase the risk of injury to patients, and, in turn, the risk of product liability claims. Product liability claims are expensive to defend and could divert our management's attention and result in substantial damage awards against us. Our products may in the future be subject to product recalls that could harm our reputation, business operations and financial results, and if our products cause or contribute to a death or serious injury, we will be subject to medical device reporting regulations, which can result in voluntary corrective actions or FDA enforcement actions. The FDA and similar foreign governmental authorities have the authority to require the recall of commercialized products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture or in the event that a product poses an unacceptable risk to health. Manufacturers may, under their own initiative, recall a product if any material deficiency in a device is found. A government mandated or voluntary recall by us or one of our distributors could occur as a result of an unacceptable risk to health, component failures, manufacturing errors, design or labeling defects or other deficiencies and issues. Recalls of any of our products would divert managerial and financial resources and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Any of these sanctions could impair our ability to produce our products in a cost-effective and timely manner in order to meet customer' demand. We may also be required to bear other costs or take other actions that may have a negative impact on our future sales and our ability to generate profits. Further, under the FDA medical device reporting regulations we are required to report to the FDA any incident in which our product may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or in which our product malfunctioned and, if the malfunction were to recur, would likely cause or contribute to death or serious injury. Any adverse event involving our products could result in future voluntary corrective actions, such as recalls or customer notifications, or agency action, such as inspection, mandatory recall or other enforcement action. Any corrective action, whether voluntary or involuntary, as well as defending ourselves in a lawsuit, will require the dedication of our time and capital, distract management from operating our business, and may harm our reputation and financial results. 20 Table of Contents Changes in coverage and reimbursement for procedures using our products could affect use of our devices and our future revenue. The demand and pricing for our products is highly dependent on the policies of third-party payors such as Medicare, Medicaid, private insurance, and managed care organizations that reimburse our customers when they use our products. Failure by physicians, hospitals and other users of our products to obtain sufficient coverage and reimbursement from healthcare payors for procedures in which our products are used, or adverse changes in environmental and private third-party payors' policies toward coverage and reimbursement for such procedures would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects. In the U.S., third-party payors continue to implement initiatives that restrict the use of certain technologies to those that meet certain clinical evidentiary requirements. We are aware of several third-party payors in the U.S., including governmental payors such as Medicare and Medicaid and private health insurance companies, who consider Coblation technology used in certain procedures to treat certain clinical conditions to be experimental or investigational. These payors have developed policies that deny coverage and therefore make no reimbursement for such procedures using our devices. Procedures using our devices that are not covered by some payors include such procedures as plasma disc decompression, or Coblation nucleoplasty, as well as Coblation or radiofrequency volumetric tissue reduction for (1) removing soft tissue during arthroscopic surgery, (2) hypertrophied nasal turbinates for the treatment of chronic nasal obstruction or obstructive sleep apnea and (3) soft palate and tongue for the treatment of obstructive sleep apnea. However, some payors in the U.S. provide coverage and reimbursement for Coblation tonsillectomy for certain clinical indications. In addition, some payors are moving toward a managed care system and control their health care costs by limiting authorizations for surgical procedures, including elective procedures using our devices. Failure to obtain favorable payor policies could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. In addition to uncertainties surrounding coverage policies, third-party payors from time to time update reimbursement amounts and also revise the methodologies used to determine reimbursement amounts. This includes annual updates to payments to ambulatory surgical centers and physicians for procedures using our products. Because the cost of our products generally is recovered by the healthcare provider as part of the payment for performing a procedure and not separately reimbursed, these updates could directly impact the demand for our products. An example of payment updates is the Medicare program updates to physician payments, which is done on an annual basis using a prescribed statutory formula. In the past, when the application of the formula resulted in lower payment, Congress has passed interim legislation to prevent the reductions. Most recently, the American Taxpayer Relief Act (ATRA), signed into law in January 2013, froze the 2012 payment rates under the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule through 2013. If Congress fails to intervene to prevent the negative update factor in future years, the resulting decrease in payment may adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. In addition, ATRA, among other things, delays for another two months the budget cuts mandated by these sequestration provisions of the Budget Control Act of 2011. The ATRA also reduced Medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers, and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. Market acceptance of our products in international markets would be dependent, in part, upon the availability of coverage and reimbursement within prevailing health care payment systems which vary significantly by country and may include both government sponsored health care and private insurance. We cannot assure investors that any reimbursement approvals will be obtained in a timely manner, if at all, or assess the impact on our business of any future changes, if any, that are made to coverage and reimbursement policies by government action in key international markets. 21 Table of Contents Product liability claims could adversely impact our financial condition and impair our reputation. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks which are inherent in the design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices. In addition, many of our products are designed to be implanted in the human body for long periods of time. Component failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects or inadequate disclosure of product related risks or product related information with respect to these or other products we manufacture or sell could result in an unsafe condition or injury to a patient. The occurrence of such a problem could result in product liability claims or a recall of one or more of our products, which could ultimately result in the removal from the body of such products and claims regarding associated costs and damages, which could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, our ability to attract and retain customers for our products, and future growth prospects. We cannot assure you that our current product liability insurance coverage limits are adequate to protect us from any liabilities we might incur in connection with the development, manufacture and sale of our products. In addition, we may require increased product liability coverage as products are successfully commercialized in additional applications. Product liability insurance is expensive and in the future may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, our ability to attract and retain customers for our products, and future growth prospects. We are dependent on key suppliers, and supply disruptions could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects. Some of the components within our products are purchased from single vendors. If the supply of materials from a single source supplier were interrupted, replacement or alternative sources might not be readily obtainable. An inability to continue to source materials or components from any of these suppliers, which could be due to regulatory actions or requirements affecting the supplier, adverse financial or other strategic developments experienced by a supplier, labor disputes or shortages, unexpected demands or quality issues, could adversely affect our ability to satisfy demand for our products. A new or supplemental filing with applicable regulatory authorities may require us to obtain clearance prior to our marketing a product containing new material. This clearance process may take a substantial period of time and we cannot assure investors that we would be able to obtain the necessary regulatory approval for a new material to be used in our products on a timely basis, if at all. This could create supply disruptions that would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects. In addition, we primarily use a subcontractor located in Costa Rica to sterilize our disposable devices. We have the ability to use alternative sterilization service providers for most of our products. If our Costa Rica sterilization service were to be disrupted for any reason, we would be required to use alternative sources with potentially longer processing and logistics cycles, which could lead to a disruption in our ability to supply products for a period of time. We are dependent on warehouses in the U.S. and Belgium owned and operated by Deutsche Post DHL, Inc. Our ability to supply products to our customers in a timely manner and at acceptable commercial terms could be disrupted by factors such as fire, earthquake or any other natural disaster, work stoppages, disputes or difficulties between Deutsche Post DHL, Inc. and its employees, malfunctions in Deutsche Post DHL, Inc.'s information systems or disruptions in Deutsche Post DHL, Inc.'s shipping channels. Many of our business processes depend upon our information technology systems and the proper interaction with or interfacing with systems of third parties or with systems supplied by third parties. If those systems fail or are interrupted, or if our ability to connect to or interact with one or more 22 Table of Contents networks is interrupted, our processes may not function properly or at all. In addition, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, unauthorized tampering and other disruptions. These occurrences could harm our ability to ship products, and our financial results would likely be adversely affected. Our business is susceptible to risks associated with international operations. International operations are generally subject to a number of risks, including: protectionist laws, business practices, licenses, tariffs and other trade barriers that favor local competition; multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations, such as tax laws regulating intercompany transactions; difficulties in managing foreign operations, including staffing, seasonality of operations, dependence on local vendors, and collecting accounts receivable; loss of proprietary information due to piracy, misappropriation or weaker laws regarding intellectual property protection; foreign currency uncertainties; and political and economic instability. To be able to market and sell our products in other countries, we must obtain regulatory approvals and comply with the regulations of those countries. These regulations, including the requirements for approvals and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country and we cannot be certain that we will receive regulatory approvals in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products. If we fail to obtain or maintain regulatory approval in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, our ability to generate revenue could be harmed. We derived 31.6 percent, 31.0 percent and 28.0 percent of our total product sales for the year ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, from customers located outside of the Americas and we expect international revenue to remain a significant percentage of total revenue. Historically, a majority of our international revenues and costs have been denominated in foreign currencies and we expect future international revenues and costs will be mostly denominated in foreign currencies. Disruptions or other adverse developments at our Costa Rica facility could materially adversely affect our business. Our products are manufactured at our facility in an industrial park in San Jose, Costa Rica. We do not maintain redundant manufacturing facilities of sufficient scale to meet our current business needs in the event of a major disruption to our Costa Rica facility. If our Costa Rica facility is not able to produce sufficient quantities of our products with adequate quality, or if our Costa Rica operations are disrupted for any reason, then we may be forced to locate alternative manufacturing facilities, including facilities operated by third parties. Disruptions may include, but are not limited to: changes in the legal and regulatory environment in Costa Rica; slowdowns or work stoppages within the Costa Rican customs authorities; acts of God (including but not limited to potential disruptive effects from an active volcano near the facility or earthquakes, hurricanes and other natural disasters); and other issues associated with significant operations that are remote from our headquarters and operations centers. Additionally, continued growth in product sales could outpace the ability of our Costa Rican operation to supply ordered products on a timely basis or cause us to take actions within our supply and manufacturing operations which increase costs, complexity and timing. Locating alternative facilities would be time-consuming, would disrupt our production and cause shipment delays and could result in damage to our reputation and profitability. Additionally, we cannot assure you that alternative manufacturing facilities would offer the same cost structure as our Costa Rica facility. Unidentified or other control deficiencies relating to our internal control over financial reporting could result in errors in our reported results and could have a material adverse effect on our operations, investor confidence in our business and the trading prices of our securities. Internal control over financial reporting cannot provide absolute assurance of achieving financial reporting objectives because of its inherent limitations. Internal control over financial reporting is a 23 Table of Contents process that involves human diligence and compliance and is subject to lapses in judgment and breakdowns resulting from human failures. Internal control over financial reporting can also be circumvented by collusion or improper management override. Because of such limitations, there is a risk that material misstatements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis by internal control over financial reporting. One Equity Partners, a private equity firm, may have influence on our major corporate decisions. As previously reported, on September 1, 2009, an affiliate of One Equity Partners, or OEP, a private equity firm, acquired our Series A Preferred Stock. See "Part II—Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources" in our 2009 Form 10-K for a description of this transaction. As a result of this transaction, OEP became the largest beneficial owner of our stock. At this time, assuming conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock to our Common Stock, including make-whole amounts as defined in the Certificate of Designation for the Series A Preferred Stock but excluding outstanding options and warrants held by other parties, OEP would represent an ownership interest of approximately 17.2 percent of our voting stock. In connection with this transaction, we expanded the Board of Directors to eight members and granted OEP the right to nominate two directors. Effective September 1, 2009, Messrs. Gregory Belinfanti and Christian Ahrens, both partners of OEP, were appointed to our Board of Directors. Consequently, OEP may have the ability to influence our Board of Directors and matters requiring stockholder approval, subject to the restrictions placed on OEP by the Securities Purchase Agreement, including without limitation OEP's agreement to vote for any director nominated by the Board and to comply with the terms of the standstill. Since September 1, 2010, OEP is free to convert the Series A Preferred Stock into our Common Stock and, subject to the registration requirements of the federal securities laws, dispose of such stock, which could result in a decrease of the market price of our Common Stock, particularly if such dispositions are made in the open market and are substantial. Circumstances associated with our integration of acquisitions may adversely affect our operating results. An element of our growth strategy in the future may be the pursuit of acquisitions of other businesses that expand or complement our existing products and distribution channels. Integrating businesses, however, involves a number of special risks, including: the possibility that management attention may be diverted from regular business concerns by the need to integrate operations; unforeseen costs, difficulties and liabilities in integrating our and the acquired company's employees, operations and systems; accounting, regulatory, or compliance issues that could arise in connection with, or as a result of, the acquisition of the acquired company; challenges in retaining our customers or the customers of the acquired company following the acquisition; the difficulty of incorporating acquired technology and rights into our products and services; and impairment charges if our acquisitions are not successful due to these risks. In addition, we may finance future acquisitions by issuing equity securities, which may dilute the holdings of our current stockholders. If we are unable to successfully complete and integrate strategic acquisitions in a timely manner, our business, financial condition or operating results may be adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 24 Table of Contents 