ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This section identifies specific risks that should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. Any of these risks could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Although we believe that these risks represent the material risks relevant to us, our business and our industry, new material risks may emerge that we are currently unable to predict. As a result, this description of the risks that affect our business and our industry is not exhaustive. The risks discussed below could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical results or the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements as described above. The restatement of our previous financial statements, the Audit Committee’s review of certain accounting, financial reporting and insurance billing and healthcare compliance practices and the DOJ and other investigations, legal and administrative proceedings have increased our costs and could result in fines, injunctions, orders, and penalties which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. As previously reported, during 2009 and 2008, we experienced substantial delays in filing our periodic reports as a result of issues identified during a review of certain accounting and financial reporting matters as well as certain insurance billing and healthcare compliance practices conducted under the direction of our Audit Committee (the “Review”), which began in July 2008. The Review was completed in August 2009 and the results were reported to the Audit Committee and to the Board. In July 2008, we also commenced a separate comprehensive review of our accounting policies and procedures, financial reporting, internal controls and corporate governance. We completed this comprehensive review in November 2009, and as a result of our comprehensive review and the Review, we made extensive organizational and operational changes and improved our internal controls. As a result of errors and possible irregularities identified by the Review and management’s review and analysis of certain accounting matters, we restated our financial statements for: the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, 2005, and 2004; the quarter ended March 31, 2008 and each of the quarters for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 filed on November 18, 2009, or the 2008 Form 10-K. As of December 31, 2011, we have settled or reached pending settlement on all known proceedings against the Company arising from the restatement or the Review with the exception of the DOJ investigation. See Note10, “Litigation and Contingencies,” in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. We have incurred substantial costs and expenses related to the Review and resulting investigations, proceedings, and indemnity obligations to former officers and to certain other employees and former employees. These matters may continue to divert our management’s time and attention periodically and cause us to continue to incur substantial costs and expenses which will be funded without the benefit of further insurance coverage. The DOJ investigation could also lead to fines, injunctions or orders with respect to future activities. We could incur substantial additional costs to defend and resolve the investigation or proceedings arising out of or related to the investigation. In addition, we could be exposed to enforcement or other actions upon completion of the DOJ investigation. At this point, we are unable to predict the duration, scope or result of the investigation or whether any other federal or state agencies will commence any further investigation or legal action. Any such investigations may result in us being subject to criminal and civil penalties and other remedial measures, which could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We are subject to substantial government regulation that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our failure to comply with extensive and evolving government regulations and laws could result in enforcement actions and subject us to civil or criminal penalties and materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our medical device products and operations are subject to extensive regulation by numerous governmental authorities both in the U.S. and abroad. See “Business—Government Regulation” for further details on such regulation. Government regulations and foreign requirements specific to medical devices are wide ranging and govern, among other things: design, development and manufacturing; testing, labeling and storage; clinical trials; product safety; marketing, sales and distribution; pre-market clearance and approval; record keeping procedures; advertising and promotions; recalls and field corrective actions; post-market surveillance, including reporting of 11 Table of Contents deaths or serious injuries and malfunctions that, if they were to recur, could lead to death or serious injury; and product import and export. During the past several years, the U.S. health care industry has been subject to an increase in governmental regulation at both the federal and state levels. We are subject to numerous federal and state regulations. As part of our internal compliance program, we review our sales and marketing materials, contracts and programs with counsel, and require employees and marketing representatives to participate in regular training. We also have adopted and train our personnel on the Code of Ethics on Interactions with Health Care Professionals promulgated by the Advanced Medical Technology Association or AdvaMed, a leading trade association representing medical device manufacturers. Most recently, we amended our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the “Code of Ethics”) in August 2009. Originally adopted in 2004 to qualify as a “code of ethics” within the meaning of Section 406 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Code of Ethics was amended to qualify as well as a “code of conduct” under the current Federal Sentencing Guidelines and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General’s Compliance Program Guidance for Pharmaceutical Manufacturers (68 FR 23731 (May 5, 2003)) applicable to medical device companies. The Code of Ethics applies to all of our directors, officers, employees and agents. It also serves as an essential element of our Corporate Compliance Program, as announced in August 2009. However, we can give no assurances that our compliance program will ensure that the Company is in compliance with existing or future applicable laws and regulations. If our compliance program fails to meet its objectives, or if we otherwise fail to comply with existing or future applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties. We devote significant operational and managerial resources to comply with these laws and regulations. Different interpretations and enforcement policies of these laws and regulations could subject our current practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make significant changes to our products and operations. In addition, we cannot predict the impact of future legislation and regulatory changes on our business or assure you that we will be able to obtain or maintain the regulatory approvals required to operate our business. Both federal and state government agencies conduct civil and criminal enforcement efforts against health care companies, as well as their executives and managers. These efforts generally relate to a wide variety of matters, including referral and billing practices, and implicate a variety of state and federal laws, including state insurance fraud provisions, common law fraud theories, as well as both state and federal fraud-and-abuse, anti-kickback, false claims statutes, and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar international anti-bribery laws and regulations with which we must comply. Although we no longer directly bill any payor, some of our prior activities could become the subject of additional governmental investigations or inquiries. In addition, even though we no longer directly bill any payor, we are still subject to health care fraud and abuse laws and regulations, and enforcement thereof by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. In addition, amendments to the False Claims Act have made it easier for private parties to bring “qui tam” whistleblower lawsuits against companies. Numerous states have adopted similar state whistleblower and false claims provisions. The federal False Claims Act provides incentives for private plaintiffs to initiate lawsuits that lead to the government recovering money of which it was defrauded by providing that a private plaintiff may receive up to 30% of the proceeds from a successful litigation. If we, as a defendant in a qui tam lawsuit, are found to have violated the False Claims Act, we could be subject to treble damages, civil monetary penalties for each false claim submitted and exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. In addition, we could be subject to criminal penalties under a variety of federal statutes to the extent that we knowingly violate legal requirements under federal health programs or otherwise present false or fraudulent claims or documentation to the government. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. Moreover, recent health care reform legislation has strengthened these laws. For example, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) which was signed into law in March 2010, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback and criminal health care fraud statutes; a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. In addition, the PPACA provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the false claims statutes. Moreover, we expect there will continue to be federal and state laws and/or regulations, proposed and implemented, that could impact our operations and business. The extent to which future legislation or regulations if any relating to health care fraud abuse laws and/or enforcement may be enacted or what effect such legislation or regulation would have on our business remains uncertain. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from governmental health care programs, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. The FDA, DOJ and other governmental authorities have broad enforcement powers, and if our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulatory requirements or if a governmental authority interprets the legality of one of our practices differently than we do, it could result in governmental agencies or a court taking action which would adversely affect our business through any of the 12 Table of Contents following: issuing public warning letters to us; imposing fines and penalties on us; obtaining an injunction preventing us from manufacturing or selling our products; bringing civil or criminal charges against us; delaying the introduction of our products into the market; delaying pending requests for clearance or approval of new uses or modifications to our existing products; recalling, detaining or seizing our products; or withdrawing or denying approvals or clearances for our products Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects. Our ability to compete effectively depends in part on developing and maintaining the proprietary aspects of our Coblation technology and our acquired technologies. We believe that our issued patents are directed at the core technology used in our soft-tissue surgery systems, as well as the use of Coblation technology in specific surgical procedures. In addition, we believe that our issued patents are directed at many of the core features of our acquired technologies Opus, Atlantech and Applied Therapeutics, Inc. (ATI). Our earliest Coblation-related patent expired in January of 2012. The majority of our royalty income is associated with licenses that include core Coblation patent rights which extend through the end of 2015. A portion of license royalty revenue is associated with license grants from patents rights that extend beyond 2017. However, a licensee has asserted, and others may also assert, that their license obligations expire at an earlier date which may lead us to incur significant legal and dispute resolution costs to defend our right to royalties under our existing licenses. There is no assurance that the patents we have obtained, or any patents we may obtain as a result of our pending U.S. or international patent applications, will provide adequate protection to insure any competitive advantages for our products. We also cannot assure investors that those patents will not be successfully challenged, invalidated or circumvented prior to their expiration. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that competitors, many of which have substantial resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, have not already applied for or obtained, or will not seek to apply for and obtain, patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use and sell our products either in the U.S. or in international markets. In Sports Medicine, many of our competitors have licensed our technology for limited fields of use. Patent applications are maintained in secrecy for a period after filing. We may not be aware of all of the patents and patent applications potentially adverse to our interests. In addition to patents, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how, which we seek to protect, in part, through confidentiality and proprietary information agreements. We require our employees and technical consultants to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of an employment or consulting relationship with us. These agreements generally provide that all confidential information, developed or made known to the individual during the course of the individual’s relationship with us, is to be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties. These agreements also generally provide that inventions conceived by the individual in the course of rendering services to us shall be our exclusive property. We cannot assure investors that employees and consultants will not breach such agreements, that we would have adequate remedies for any breach or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known to or be independently developed by competitors. 13 Table of Contents We may in the future be subject to intellectual property claims, which are costly to defend, could require us to pay damages and could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. A number of medical device and other companies, universities and research institutions have filed patent applications or have issued patents relating to monopolar and/or bipolar electrosurgical methods and apparatus. We have received, and we may receive in the future, notifications of potential conflicts of existing patents, pending patent applications and challenges to the validity of existing patents. In addition, we have become aware of, and may become aware of in the future, patent applications and issued patents that relate to our products and/or the surgical applications and issued patents and, in some cases, have obtained internal and/or external opinions of counsel regarding the relevance of certain issued patents to our products. We do not believe that our products currently infringe any valid and enforceable claims of the issued patents that we have reviewed. However, if third-party patents or patent applications contain claims infringed by our technology and such claims are ultimately determined to be valid, we may not be able to obtain licenses to those patents at a reasonable cost, if at all, or be able to develop or obtain alternative technology. Our inability to do either would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects. We cannot assure investors that we will not have to defend ourselves in court against allegations of infringement of third-party patents, or that such defense would be successful. We cannot assure you that we will not become subject to patent infringement claims or other litigation, including interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, (USPTO) or similar proceedings in foreign jurisdictions to determine the priority of inventions. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property lawsuits, USPTO reexamination and interference proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings, generally are costly and time-consuming. If other parties violate our proprietary rights, further litigation may be necessary to enforce our patents, to protect trade secrets or know-how we own or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Any litigation or reexamination or interference proceedings will be costly and cause significant diversion of effort by our technical and management personnel. An adverse determination in existing claims, additional litigation or reexamination or interference proceedings to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties or require us to cease using certain technology. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that we could obtain necessary licenses on satisfactory terms, if at all. Adverse determinations in judicial or administrative proceedings or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future growth prospects. We may not be able to successfully introduce to the market new products in a timely manner, which could cause us to lose business to competitors. We compete in a market characterized by rapidly changing technology. We may not be able to keep pace with technology or to develop viable new products. Our future financial performance will depend in part on our ability to develop and manufacture new products in a cost-effective manner, to introduce these products to the market on a timely basis, and to achieve market acceptance of these products. Factors which may result in delays of new product introductions or cancellation of our plans to manufacture and market new products include capital constraints, research and development delays, and delays in acquiring regulatory approvals. Our new products and new product introductions may fail to achieve expected levels of market acceptance. Factors impacting the level of market acceptance include our ability to successfully implement new technologies, the timeliness of our product introductions, our product pricing strategies, our available financial and technological resources for product promotion and development, our ability to show clinical benefit from our products, and the availability of coverage and reimbursement for our products as discussed in the risk factor titled “Changes in coverage and reimbursement for procedures using our products could affect use of our devices and our future revenue ” below. The markets for our products are intensely competitive, which may result in our competitors developing technologies and products that are more effective than ours or that make our technologies and products obsolete. 14 Table of Contents Many of our competitors have significantly greater resources and market power than we do. The markets for our current products in our core businesses are intensely competitive. We cannot assure you that other companies will not succeed in developing technologies and products that are more effective than ours, or that would render our technologies or products obsolete or uncompetitive in these markets. Our primary competitors across all of our operating units consist of Medtronic, Inc., Smith & Nephew, Stryker Corporation, Johnson & Johnson, Olympus (through their Gyrus subsidiary), and Arthrex, Inc. These competitors tend to be large, well-financed companies with diverse product lines who may have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and technical resources than we do. Some of these companies offer broad product lines that they may offer as a single package and frequently offer significant price discounts as a competitive tactic. Furthermore, some of our competitors utilize purchasing contracts that link discounts on the purchase of one product to purchases of other products in their broad product lines. Many of the hospitals in the U.S. have purchasing contracts with our competitors. Accordingly, customers may be dissuaded from purchasing our products instead of our competitors’ products to the extent the purchase would cause them to lose discounts on our competitors’ products. In addition, we are aware of several small companies that may directly or indirectly compete with our products. If we were to be unable to continue to compete for any of the above reasons, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects. Until we resolve our contingencies, we may not have access to a cost effective credit facility and we will be required to fund a significant amount of cash to fund our working capital needs and planned expenditures with cash on hand. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. In the absence of a credit facility as a possible source of liquidity, our ability to meet our working capital needs and to fund capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash from operations and effectively manage our cash balances. This is subject to general economic, financial, competitive and other factors that may be beyond our control. We are unable to predict the outcome of the ongoing DOJ investigation with which we are cooperating and this matter could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and cash flows. See Note10, “Litigation and Contingencies,” in the notes to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion on this matter and other legal proceedings. We expect that our cash flows from operations together with cash on hand will be sufficient to satisfy our short-term and, excluding the uncertainty related to the ongoing investigation and for our indemnity obligations to certain former officers; however, we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations in an amount sufficient to enable us to fund our other liquidity needs. As a result, from time to time, we may be required to seek financing from alternative sources. We cannot assure you that such alternative funding will be available to us on terms and conditions acceptable to us, or at all. In addition, we maintain deposit accounts with numerous financial institutions around the world in amounts that exceed applicable governmental deposit insurance levels. While we actively monitor our deposit relationships, the unanticipated failure of a financial institution in which we maintain deposits could cause us to suffer losses that could materially harm our results of operations and financial condition. Medical device reprocessors that reprocess our single-use devices and then provide them to customers at a lower cost than a new device may adversely affect our business. Certain medical device reprocessors routinely collect used or opened but unused single-use devices from customers and reprocess and repackage these products to customers at a price lower than the price of a new device. These reprocessed devices may be confused with our authorized products, reduce our product sales and harm our reputation with key physicians who may not have knowledge that the devices have been reprocessed. In addition, this may increase time and expense spent investigating and addressing performance issues, including product liability issues, related to reprocessed devices. We may be required to incur additional expense to protect ourselves against performance claims associated with reprocessed devices and to enforce infringements by reprocessors of our proprietary and contractual rights. 15 Table of Contents Failure to obtain FDA clearance or approval for our products could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and future growth prospects. In the U.S., before we can market a new medical device, or a new use of, or claim for, or significant modification to an existing product, we must first receive either premarket clearance under Section 510(k) of the U.S. Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, or approval of a Premarket Approval (PMA) submission from the FDA, unless an exemption applies. In the 510(k) clearance process, the FDA must determine that a proposed device is “substantially equivalent” to a device legally on the market, known as a “predicate” device, with respect to intended use, technology and safety and effectiveness, in order to clear the proposed device for marketing. Clinical data is sometimes required to support substantial equivalence. However, as was the case in our submission for 510(k) clearance of Coblator IQ ENT Plasma Wands, the FDA has a high degree of latitude when evaluating submissions and may determine that a proposed device submitted for 510(k) clearance is not substantially equivalent, or NSE, to a predicate device. Recent trends in FDA’s review of 510(k) submissions suggest that FDA is often requiring manufacturers to provide new, more expansive or different information regarding a particular device than what the manufacturer anticipated. This has resulted in increasing uncertainty and delay in the premarket notification review process. In January 2011, the FDA announced twenty-five specific action items it intends to take with respect to the 510(k) process to add greater transparency and certainty to the review process. These reforms, if and when fully implemented, could impose additional regulatory requirements upon us which could delay or limit our ability to obtain new clearances, increase the costs of compliance, or restrict our ability to maintain current clearances. An FDA NSE determination means that the device is automatically reclassified into Class III and we cannot market the device unless it is either approved through the PMA process or reclassified into Class I or Class II based on a new 501(k) submission with supporting data. A new submission may require clinical data. The PMA approval pathway requires an applicant to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the device based, in part, on data obtained in clinical trials. Both of these processes can be expensive and lengthy and entail significant user fees, unless exempt. The FDA’s 510(k) clearance process usually takes from three to twelve months, but it can last longer. The process of obtaining PMA approval is much more costly and uncertain than the 510(k) clearance process. It generally takes from one to three years, or even longer, from the time the PMA application is submitted to the FDA until an approval is obtained. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain FDA clearance or approval for any of our new products on a timely basis, or at all. Failure to obtain FDA clearance or approval for our new products could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and future growth prospects. After a device receives 510(k) premarket notification clearance from the FDA, any modification that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in the intended use of the device, technology, materials, packaging, and certain manufacturing processes may require a new 510(k) clearance or PMA. The FDA requires every manufacturer to make the determination regarding the need for a new 510(k) clearance or PMA approval in the first instance, but the FDA may review any manufacturer’s decision and may retroactively require the manufacturer to submit a premarket notification requesting 510(k) clearance or an application for PMA approval. The FDA also can require the manufacturer to cease marketing and/or recall the modified device until 510(k) clearance or approval is obtained. FDA guidance documents, including a draft guidance issued on July 27, 2011 that has yet to become final, define when to submit premarket notifications for new or modified devices. These guidance documents also define modifications for which a new 510(k) is not required. We have modified some of our marketed devices, and have determined that in certain instances new 510(k) clearances or PMA approvals are not required. No assurance can be made that the FDA would agree with any of our decisions not to seek 510(k) clearance or PMA approval. If the FDA requires us to cease marketing and/or recall the modified device until we obtain a new 510(k) clearance or PMA approval, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects could be materially adversely affected. We may be subject to fines, penalties or injunctions if we are determined to be promoting the use of our products for unapproved or “off-label” uses, which would adversely affect our financial condition. Our promotional materials and training methods must comply with FDA regulations and other applicable laws and regulations, including the prohibition of the promotion of a medical device for a use that has not been 16 Table of Contents cleared or approved by the FDA. Use of a device outside its cleared or approved indications is known as “off-label” use. Physicians may use our products off-label, as the FDA does not restrict or regulate a physician’s choice of treatment within the practice of medicine. However, if the FDA determines that our promotional materials or training constitutes the promotion of an off-label use, it could subject us to certain sanctions ranging from a request that we modify our training or promotional materials to further regulatory or enforcement actions, including the issuance of an untitled letter, a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and/or criminal penalties against us or our officers or employees. It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they consider our promotional or training materials to constitute promotion of an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. In that event, our reputation could be damaged and adoption of the products would be impaired. Although our policy is to refrain from statements that could be considered off-label promotion of our products, the FDA or another regulatory agency could disagree and conclude that we have engaged in off-label promotion. In addition, the off-label use of our products may increase the risk of injury to patients, and, in turn, the risk of product liability claims. Product liability claims are expensive to defend and could divert our management’s attention and result in substantial damage awards against us. Our products may in the future be subject to product recalls that could harm our reputation, business operations and financial results, and if our products cause or contribute to a death or serious injury, we will be subject to medical device reporting regulations, which can result in voluntary corrective actions or FDA enforcement actions. The FDA and similar foreign governmental authorities have the authority to require the recall of commercialized products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture or in the event that a product poses an unacceptable risk to health. Manufacturers may, under their own initiative, recall a product if any material deficiency in a device is found. A government mandated or voluntary recall by us or one of our distributors could occur as a result of an unacceptable risk to health, component failures, manufacturing errors, design or labeling defects or other deficiencies and issues. Recalls of any of our products would divert managerial and financial resources and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Any of these sanctions could impair our ability to produce our products in a cost-effective and timely manner in order to meet customer’ demand. We may also be required to bear other costs or take other actions that may have a negative impact on our future sales and our ability to generate profits. Further, under the FDA medical device reporting regulations we are required to report to the FDA any incident in which our product may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or in which our product malfunctioned and, if the malfunction were to recur, would likely cause or contribute to death or serious injury. Any adverse event involving our products could result in future voluntary corrective actions, such as recalls or customer notifications, or agency action, such as inspection, mandatory recall or other enforcement action. Any corrective action, whether voluntary or involuntary, as well as defending ourselves in a lawsuit, will require the dedication of our time and capital, distract management from operating our business, and may harm our reputation and financial results. Changes in coverage and reimbursement for procedures using our products could affect use of our devices and our future revenue. The demand and pricing for our products is highly dependent on the policies of third-party payors such as Medicare, Medicaid, private insurance, and managed care organizations that reimburse our customers when they use our products. Failure by physicians, hospitals and other users of our products to obtain sufficient coverage and reimbursement from healthcare payors for procedures in which our products are used, or adverse changes in environmental and private third-party payors’ policies toward coverage and reimbursement for such procedures would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects. In the U.S., third-party payors continue to implement initiatives that restrict the use of certain technologies to those that meet certain clinical evidentiary requirements. We are aware of several third-party payors in the U.S., including governmental payors such as Medicare and Medicaid and private health insurance companies, who consider Coblation technology used in certain procedures to treat certain clinical conditions to be experimental or 17 Table of Contents investigational. These payors have developed policies that deny coverage and therefore make no reimbursement for such procedures using our devices. Procedures using our devices that are not covered by some payors include such procedures as plasma disc decompression, or Coblation nucleoplasty, as well as Coblation or radiofrequency volumetric tissue reduction for (1) removing soft tissue during arthroscopic surgery, (2) hypertrophied nasal turbinates for the treatment of chronic nasal obstruction or obstructive sleep apnea and (3) soft palate and tongue for the treatment of obstructive sleep apnea. However, some payors in the U.S. provide coverage and reimbursement for Coblation tonsillectomy for certain clinical indications. In addition, some payors are moving toward a managed care system and control their health care costs by limiting authorizations for surgical procedures, including elective procedures using our devices. Failure to obtain favorable payor policies could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. In addition to uncertainties surrounding coverage policies, third-party payors from time to time update reimbursement amounts and also revise the methodologies used to determine reimbursement amounts. This includes annual updates to payments to ambulatory surgical centers and physicians for procedures using our products. Because the cost of our products generally is recovered by the healthcare provider as part of the payment for performing a procedure and not separately reimbursed, these updates could directly impact the demand for our products. An example of payment updates is the Medicare program updates to physician payments, which is done on an annual basis using a prescribed statutory formula. In the past, when the application of the formula resulted in lower payment, Congress has passed interim legislation to prevent the reductions. For 2011, the Medicare and Medicaid Extenders Act of 2010 which was signed into law on December 15, 2010, froze the 2010 update through 2011. Because the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or CMS, was required to make its other changes to the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule (including adjustments made to certain codes identified to be misvalued) budget neutral, CMS made a downward adjustment to what is known as the “conversion factor,” which translates values into dollar amounts. Whereas the conversion factor for the end of 2010 was $36.8729, it is $33.9764 for 2011. On December 23, 2011, President Obama signed into law the Temporary Payroll Tax Cut Continuation Act of 2011, which replaced the Medicare physician payment cut scheduled to take place on January 1, 2012, with a zero percent update for two months, thereby allowing for continuation of current physician payment levels until February 29, 2012. Without Congressional intervention, CMS projects a rate reduction of 27.4 percent for 2012. At this time, it is uncertain how the change would affect our business. If Congress fails to intervene to prevent the negative update factor prior to February 29, 2012, or in future years, the resulting decrease in payment may adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. The PPACA legislation, among other things, imposes significant new taxes on medical device makers which will result in a significant increase in the tax burden on our industry, and could have a material, negative impact on our results of operations and our cash flows. Other elements of this legislation such as comparative effectiveness research, an independent payment advisory board, payment system reforms including shared savings pilots and other provisions could significantly change the way healthcare is developed and delivered, and may materially impact many aspects of our business. In addition, the PPACA expands coverage to more individuals, but the mandatory purchase of insurance has been strenuously opposed by a number of state governors, resulting in lawsuits challenging the constitutionality of certain provisions of PPACA, and many of these challenges are still pending final adjudication in several jurisdictions, including in the United States Supreme Court. Congress has also proposed a number of legislative initiatives, including possible repeal of PPACA. At this time, it remains unclear whether there will be any changes made to PPACA, whether to certain provisions or its entirety. Other legislative changes have also been proposed and adopted since the PPACA was enacted. Most recently, on August 2, 2011, the President signed into law the Budget Control Act of 2011, which, among other things, creates the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction to recommend proposals in spending reductions to Congress. The Joint Select Committee did not achieve a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, triggering the legislation’s automatic reduction to several government programs. This includes aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, starting in 2013. New laws, regulations and judicial decisions, or new interpretations of existing laws, regulations and decisions that relate to healthcare availability, methods of delivery or payment for products and services, or sales, marketing or pricing may cause our revenue to decline. In addition, we may need to revise our research and development plans if a program or programs no longer are commercially viable. Such changes could cause our stock price to decline or 18 Table of Contents experience periods of volatility. If we obtain the necessary international regulatory approvals, market acceptance of our products in international markets would be dependent, in part, upon the availability of coverage and reimbursement within prevailing health care payment systems. Reimbursement and health care payment systems in international markets vary significantly by country and include both government sponsored health care and private insurance. We intend to seek international reimbursement approvals, although we cannot assure investors that any such approvals will be obtained in a timely manner, if at all. We are also unable to predict at this time the impact on our business of any future changes, if any, that are made to coverage and reimbursement policies by government action in key international markets. Product liability claims could adversely impact our financial condition and impair our reputation. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks which are inherent in the design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices. In addition, many of our products are designed to be implanted in the human body for long periods of time. Component failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects or inadequate disclosure of product related risks or product related information with respect to these or other products we manufacture or sell could result in an unsafe condition or injury to a patient. The occurrence of such a problem could result in product liability claims or a recall of one or more of our products, which could ultimately result in the removal from the body of such products and claims regarding associated costs and damages, which could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, our ability to attract and retain customers for our products, and future growth prospects. We cannot assure you that our current product liability insurance coverage limits are adequate to protect us from any liabilities we might incur in connection with the development, manufacture and sale of our products. In addition, we may require increased product liability coverage as products are successfully commercialized in additional applications. Product liability insurance is expensive and in the future may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, our ability to attract and retain customers for our products, and future growth prospects. We are dependent on key suppliers, and supply disruptions could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects. Some of the components within our products are purchased from single vendors. If the supply of materials from a single source supplier were interrupted, replacement or alternative sources might not be readily obtainable. An inability to continue to source materials or components from any of these suppliers, which could be due to regulatory actions or requirements affecting the supplier, adverse financial or other strategic developments experienced by a supplier, labor disputes or shortages, unexpected demands or quality issues, could adversely affect our ability to satisfy demand for our products. A new or supplemental filing with applicable regulatory authorities may require us to obtain clearance prior to our marketing a product containing new material. This clearance process may take a substantial period of time and we cannot assure investors that we would be able to obtain the necessary regulatory approval for a new material to be used in our products on a timely basis, if at all. This could create supply disruptions that would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects. In addition, we primarily use a subcontractor located in Costa Rica to sterilize our disposable devices. We have the ability to use alternative sterilization service providers for most of our products. If our Costa Rica sterilization service were to be disrupted for any reason, we would be required to use alternative sources with potentially longer processing and logistics cycles, which could lead to a disruption in our ability to supply products for a period of time. We are dependent on warehouses in the U.S. and Belgium owned and operated by Deutsche Post DHL, Inc. Our ability to supply products to our customers in a timely manner and at acceptable commercial terms could be disrupted by factors such as fire, earthquake or any other natural disaster, work stoppages, disputes or difficulties between Deutsche Post DHL, Inc. and its employees, malfunctions in Deutsche Post DHL, Inc.’s information 19 Table of Contents systems or disruptions in Deutsche Post DHL, Inc.’s shipping channels. The complex nature of the underlying support technologies utilized to exchange critical product information with third party transportation and logistics providers, such as Electronic Data Interchange, has, at times, caused disruptions in our ability to deliver products to customers on a timely basis. Failure of these supporting systems could impair our business for the duration of the failure. If we or our third-party suppliers fail to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulations, our manufacturing operations could be interrupted and our sales and our ability to generate profits could suffer. We and certain of our third-party suppliers are required to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, (“QSR”) which covers the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, sterilization, storage and shipping of our products. We and our suppliers are also subject to the regulations of foreign jurisdictions regarding the manufacturing process if we market our products in these jurisdictions. The FDA enforces the QSR through periodic and unannounced inspections of manufacturing facilities. If our facilities or those of our suppliers fail to take satisfactory corrective action in response to an adverse QSR inspection, the FDA could take enforcement action, including any of the following sanctions: untitled letters; warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties; customer notifications or repair, replacement, refunds, recall, detention or seizure of our products; operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production; refusing or delaying our requests for 510(k) clearance or premarket approval of new products or modified products; withdrawing 510(k) clearances on PMA approvals that have already been granted; refusal to grant export approval for our products; or criminal prosecution. Any of these sanctions could impair our ability to produce our products in a cost-effective and timely manner in order to meet our customers’ demands. We may also be required to bear other costs or take other actions that may have a negative impact on our future sales and our ability to generate profits. Our business is susceptible to risks associated with international operations. International operations are generally subject to a number of risks, including: protectionist laws, business practices, licenses, tariffs and other trade barriers that favor local competition; multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations, such as tax laws regulating intercompany transactions; difficulties in managing foreign operations, including staffing, seasonality of operations, dependence on local vendors, and collecting accounts receivable; loss of proprietary information due to piracy, misappropriation or weaker laws regarding intellectual property protection; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; and political and economic instability. To be able to market and sell our products in other countries, we must obtain regulatory approvals and comply with the regulations of those countries. These regulations, including the requirements for approvals and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. Obtaining and maintaining foreign regulatory approvals is expensive, and we cannot be certain that we will receive regulatory approvals in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products. If we fail to obtain or maintain regulatory approval in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, our ability to generate revenue could be harmed. We derived 31.0 percent, 28.0 percent and 27.1 percent of our total product sales for the year ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, from customers located outside of the Americas. We expect international revenue to remain a significant percentage of total revenue and we believe that we must continue to expand our international sales activities to be successful. Historically, a majority of our international revenues and costs have been denominated in foreign currencies and we expect future international revenues and costs will be denominated in foreign currencies. Our international sales growth will be limited if we are unable to establish appropriate foreign operations, expand international sales channel management and support organizations, hire additional personnel, develop relationships with international sales representatives, and establish relationships with additional distributors. In that case, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Even if we are able to successfully expand international operations, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products. 20 Table of Contents Disruptions or other adverse developments at our Costa Rica facility could materially adversely affect our business. Our high-volume disposable devices and controllers are manufactured at our Company owned facility in an industrial park in San Jose, Costa Rica. We do not maintain redundant manufacturing facilities of sufficient scale to meet our current business needs in the event of a major disruption to our Costa Rica facility. If our Costa Rica facility is not able to produce sufficient quantities of our controllers and products with adequate quality, or if our Costa Rica operations are disrupted for any reason, then we may be forced to locate alternative manufacturing facilities, including facilities operated by third parties. Disruptions may include, but are not limited to: changes in the legal and regulatory environment in Costa Rica; slowdowns or work stoppages within the Costa Rican customs authorities; acts of God (including but not limited to potential disruptive effects from an active volcano near the facility or earthquakes, hurricanes and other natural disasters); and other issues associated with significant operations that are remote from our headquarters and operations centers. Additionally, continued growth in product sales could outpace the ability of our Costa Rican operation to supply ordered products on a timely basis or cause us to take actions within our supply and manufacturing operations which increase costs, complexity and timing. Locating alternative facilities would be time-consuming, would disrupt our production and cause shipment delays and could result in damage to our reputation and profitability. Additionally, we cannot assure you that alternative manufacturing facilities would offer the same cost structure as our Costa Rica facility. Our accounting policies and methods require management to make judgments and estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain, which may result in our actual results differing significantly from those generated by our judgments and estimates. We are required to exercise judgment in the application of our accounting policies and methods to comply with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. (GAAP) and to reflect management’s judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition and results of operations. See Note 2, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” in the notes to the consolidated financial statements for a description of our significant accounting policies. The accounting policies we have identified as critical to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations are described in “Part II—Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates”. We believe these policies are critical because they require management to make particularly subjective or complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain at the end of a period and because of the likelihood that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. Due to the complexity of these critical accounting policies, our accounting methods relating to these policies involve substantial use of estimates. Estimates are inherently imperfect predictors of actual results because they are based on assumptions, including assumptions about future events. Our estimates may not include assumptions that reflect very positive or very negative market conditions and, accordingly, our actual results could differ significantly from those generated by our estimates. As a result, the estimates that we use to prepare our financial statements, as well as our estimates of our future results of operations, may be significantly inaccurate. Unidentified or other control deficiencies relating to our internal control over financial reporting could result in errors in our reported results and could have a material adverse effect on our operations, investor confidence in our business and the trading prices of our securities. Internal control over financial reporting cannot provide absolute assurance of achieving financial reporting objectives because of its inherent limitations. Internal control over financial reporting is a process that involves human diligence and compliance and is subject to lapses in judgment and breakdowns resulting from human failures. Internal control over financial reporting can also be circumvented by collusion or improper management override. Because of such limitations, there is a risk that material misstatements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis by internal control over financial reporting. A failure to remain current in our filings may have material impacts on our business and liquidity. If we are not able to remain current in our filings with the SEC, we will face several adverse consequences 21 Table of Contents and restrictions. We will not be able to have a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), covering a public offering of securities, declared effective by the SEC, or make offerings pursuant to existing registration statements; we will not be able to make an offering to any purchasers not qualifying as “accredited investors” under certain “private placement” rules of the SEC under Regulation D; we will not be eligible to use a “short form” registration statement on Form S-3 for a period of at least 12 months after the time we become current in our periodic and current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”); we will not be able to deliver the requisite annual report and proxy statement to our stockholders to hold our annual stockholders meeting; our employees cannot be granted stock options, nor will they be able to exercise stock options registered on Form S-8, because Form S-8 would not be available to us; and our Common Stock may be delisted from the NASDAQ Stock Market. These restrictions may impair our ability to raise funds in the public markets, should we desire to do so, and to attract and retain employees. In addition, pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement between us and the holders of our Series A Preferred Stock, if our registration statement ceases to be available to the holders of our Series A Preferred Stock, a Registration Default occurs. If we are not able to cure this Registration Default in a timely manner we are obligated to pay the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock 2.00 percent per annum of the original liquidation preference of the Series A Preferred Stock, accruing from the date of the Registration Default until the Registration Default is cured. Future changes in technology or market conditions could result in adjustments to our recorded asset balance for intangible assets, including goodwill, resulting in additional non-cash charges that could significantly impact our operating results. Our balance sheet includes significant intangible assets, including goodwill and other acquired intangible assets. The determination of related estimated useful lives and whether these assets are impaired involves significant judgments. Our ability to accurately predict future cash flows related to these intangible assets may be adversely affected by unforeseen and uncontrollable events. In the highly competitive medical device industry, new technologies could impair the value of our intangible assets if they create market conditions that adversely affect the competitiveness of our products. We test our goodwill for impairment in the fourth quarter of each year, but we also test goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment at any time when there is a change in circumstances that indicates that the carrying value of these assets may be impaired. Any future determination that these assets have a carrying value that is greater than their fair value could result in substantial non-cash impairment charges, which could significantly impact our reported operating results. Delaware law and provisions in our charter could make the acquisition of our company by another company more difficult, which could adversely affect our stock price. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of our company. This could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our Common Stock. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws allow us to issue preferred stock without any vote or further action by the stockholders, to eliminate the right of stockholders to act by written consent without a meeting, to specify advance notice and other procedures for director nominations by stockholders and submission of other proposals for consideration at stockholder meetings, and to eliminate cumulative voting in the election of directors. Certain provisions of Delaware law applicable to us could also delay or make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us, including Section 203, which prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years unless certain conditions are met. The procedures required for director nominations and stockholder proposals and Delaware law could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of the company, including without limitation, discouraging a proxy contest or making more difficult the acquisition of a substantial block of our Common Stock. These provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation, and our bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or management of the Company, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our stock. 22 Table of Contents One Equity Partners, a private equity firm, may have influence on our major corporate decisions. As previously reported, on September 1, 2009, an affiliate of One Equity Partners, or OEP a private equity firm, acquired our Series A Preferred Stock. See “Part II—Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” in our 2009 Form 10-K for a description of this transaction. As a result of this transaction, OEP became the largest beneficial owner of our stock. At this time, assuming conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock to our Common Stock, including make-whole amounts as defined in the Certificate of Designation for the Series A Preferred Stock but excluding outstanding options and warrants held by other parties, OEP would represent an ownership interest of approximately 17.4 percent of our voting stock. In connection with this transaction, we expanded the Board of Directors to eight members and granted OEP the right to nominate two directors. Effective September 1, 2009, Messrs. Gregory Belinfanti and Christian Ahrens, both partners of OEP, were appointed to our Board of Directors. Consequently, OEP may have the ability to influence our Board of Directors and matters requiring stockholder approval, subject to the restrictions placed on OEP by the Securities Purchase Agreement, including without limitation OEP’s agreement to vote for any director nominated by the Board and to comply with the terms of the standstill. Since September 1, 2010, OEP is free to convert the Series A Preferred Stock into our Common Stock and, subject to the registration requirements of the federal securities laws, dispose of such stock, which could result in a decrease of the market price of our Common Stock, particularly if such dispositions are made in the open market and are substantial. We are dependent upon key management, technical personnel and advisors, and loss of our key personnel and advisors could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The loss of the services of one or more key employees or consultants could have a material adverse effect on us. Our success also depends on our ability to attract and retain additional highly qualified management and technical personnel. We face intense competition for qualified personnel, any of whom often receive competing employment offers. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to attract and retain such personnel. Loss of key personnel could materially impact our ability to meet our financial and operational objectives and could have a material adverse effect on our business and our results of operations. Factors may make the market price of our stock highly volatile. In our experience, our results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period. Adverse fluctuations due to these factors may adversely affect our level of revenues and profitability, results of operations, financial condition, and future growth prospects in the short and long term: the introduction of new product lines and 23 Table of Contents increased penetration in existing applications; achievement of research and development milestones; the amount and timing of expenditures and the receipt and recognition of license fees; and timing of the receipt of orders and product shipments, absence of a backlog of orders, and the rate of product returns. As a result of fluctuations in our operating results or other factors, the market price of our Common Stock could fluctuate substantially in the future. Investors may be unable to resell our Common Stock at or above their purchase price. This volatility may subject our stock price to material fluctuations due to the factors discussed in this “Risk Factors” section, and other factors including market reaction to acquisitions and trends in sales, marketing, and research and development; rumors or dissemination of false information; changes in coverage or earnings estimates by analysts; our ability to meet analysts’ or market expectations; and sales of Common Stock by existing stockholders. As previously reported, as of September 1, 2009, OEP owns all of our outstanding Series A Preferred Stock. Since September 1, 2010, OEP may convert the Series A Preferred Stock into our Common Stock and, subject to the registration requirements of the federal securities laws, dispose of such stock, which could result in a decrease of the market price of our Common Stock, particularly if such dispositions are made in the open market and are substantial. Circumstances associated with our integration of acquisitions may adversely affect our operating results. An element of our growth strategy in the future may be the pursuit of acquisitions of other businesses that expand or complement our existing products and distribution channels. Integrating businesses, however, involves a number of special risks, including: the possibility that management attention may be diverted from regular business concerns by the need to integrate operations; unforeseen costs, difficulties and liabilities in integrating our and the acquired company’s employees, operations and systems; accounting, regulatory, or compliance issues that could arise in connection with, or as a result of, the acquisition of the acquired company; challenges in retaining our customers or the customers of the acquired company following the acquisition; the difficulty of incorporating acquired technology and rights into our products and services; and impairment charges if our acquisitions are not successful due to these risks. In addition, we may finance future acquisitions by issuing equity securities, which may dilute the holdings of our current stockholders. If we are unable to successfully complete and integrate strategic acquisitions in a timely manner, our business, financial condition or operating results may be adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 