Risk Factors The following factors, in addition to other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Form 20-F, should be considered carefully. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operation and liquidity. The trading price of our ordinary shares could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks relating to our financial results and capital structure: We require a significant amount of cash to satisfy our debt obligations. If we fail to generate sufficient cash flow from operations, we may need to renegotiate or refinance our debt, obtain additional financing, postpone capital expenditures or sell assets. As of December 31, 2012 we had $846,000 in long-term debt to Dimex Systems Ltd. (includes current maturities of $136,000) and $1,612,000 in long-term bank loans (includes current maturities of $424,000). In addition, at December 31, 2012, we had $5.96 million of short term bank loans drawn under a revolving credit facility. We depend mainly on cash generated by continuing operating activities to make payments on our debt. We cannot assure that we will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to make the scheduled payments on our debt. Our ability to meet our debt obligations will depend on whether we can successfully implement our business strategy, as well as on economic, financial, competitive and technical factors (See “Item 5B. Liquidity and Capital Resources”). Some of the factors are beyond our control, such as economic conditions in the markets where we operate or intend to operate, changes in our customers’ demand for our products, and pressure from existing and new competitors. Also, because part of our loans bear interest at floating rates, we are susceptible to an increase in interest rates (See “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk”). - 4 - If we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to make scheduled payments on our debt obligations, we may need to renegotiate the terms of our debt, refinance our debt, obtain additional financing, delay planned capital expenditures or sell assets. If our lenders decline to renegotiate the terms of our debt in these circumstances, the lenders could declare all amounts borrowed and all amounts due to them under the agreements due and payable. We have had a history of losses and our future levels of sales and ability to achieve profitability are unpredictable. As of December 31, 2012, we had an accumulated deficit of $71 million. In 2012, we had a net loss of $0.55 million. The Company’s revenues in 2012 were lower by 26.7% as compared to 2011. Our ability to maintain and improve future levels of sales and achieve profitability depends on many factors, which include: · developing and selling new Radio Frequency Identification ("RFID") and Mobile Solutions products to meet market needs; · having access to sufficient working capital financing to support our operations. · delivering our products in a timely manner; · successfully implementing our business strategy; · increased demand for our existing products; and · controlling costs. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet our challenges and experience any growth in sales or achieve profitability in the future, that the level of historic sales will continue in the future or that our net losses will not increase in the future. We may be unable to maintain our gross profit margins. Our sales and profitability may vary in any given year, and from quarter to quarter. In order to increase sales or to enter into new markets with new products or due to competition we may find it necessary to decrease prices in order to be competitive. Additionally, our gross profit margin tends to fluctuate mainly due to variety and mix of products. We may not be able to maintain current gross profit margins in the future, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend on two banks which provide our short and long term loans. We rely on Bank Leumi le-Israel Ltd. (“Bank Leumi”) and on Bank Hapoalim, to provide credit facilities to our subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2012 we had $5.96 million drawn under a Bank Leumi short term revolving credit facility. In addition, as of December 31, 2012 we had $403,000 current maturities of long term loans and $1.12 million of long terms bank loans with Bank HaPoalim. The Bank HaPoalim loans contain several covenants that require the Company's Israeli subsidiaries to maintain certain financial ratios and levels of profitability. As of December 31, 2012 the Company was not in compliance with Bank HaPoalim’s covenants. Nonetheless, Bank HaPoalim agreed under certain conditions, including compliance by the Company with its covenants for the year 2013, to waive this failure of the Company to meet its financial covenants in 2012. Failure to meet our bank covenants may lead to a default under the loan agreements. - 5 - Our assets are subject to security interests in favor of our bank lenders. Our failure to repay the bank loans, if required, could result in legal action against us, which could require the sale of all of our assets. The repayment of our debt to Bank Leumi is secured by a first priority floating charge on all of our Company’s assets, present and future as they may be changing from time to time, and by a first priority fixed charge on all of the Company’s issued and unpaid-for share capital, its goodwill and its shares of our Israeli subsidiaries, BOS - Dimex Ltd. (“Dimex”) and BOS - Odem Ltd. (“Odem”). In addition, the Company and its Israeli subsidiaries entered into a series of intercompany guarantees in favor of Bank Leumi. The repayment of the Company's debt to Bank HaPoalim is secured by long term bank deposits in the amount of $438,000. If we are unable to repay the bank loans when due, our bank lender could foreclose on our assets in order to recover the amounts due. Any such action would require us to curtail or cease operations (See “Item 5B. Liquidity and Capital Resources”). Our debt obligations may hinder our growth and put us at a competitive disadvantage. Our debt obligations require us to use a substantial portion of our operating cash flow to repay the principal and interest on our loans. This reduces funds available to grow and expand our business, limits our ability to pursue business opportunities and makes us more vulnerable to economic and industry downturns. The existence of debt obligations and covenants also limits our ability to obtain additional financing on favorable terms. Due to restrictions in our loan agreements, we may not be able to operate our business as we desire. Our loan agreements contain a number of conditions and limitations on the way in which we can operate our business, including limitations on our ability to raise debt, sell or acquire assets and pay dividends. Our loan agreements also contain various covenants, which require that we maintain certain financial ratios related to shareholder's equity , operating results and certain levels of profitability. These limitations and covenants may force us to pursue less than optimal business strategies or forgo business arrangements which could have been financially advantageous to our shareholders and us. Our failure to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our loan agreements could lead to a default under the terms of these agreements (See “Item 5B. Liquidity and Capital Resources”). - 6 - Risks related to our business: We depend on key personnel for the success of our business. Our success depends, to a significant extent, on the continued active participation of our executive officers and other key personnel. In addition, there is significant competition for employees with technical expertise in our industry. In order to succeed we would need to be able to: · retain the executive officers and key technical personnel who have been involved in the development of our two divisions; · attract and retain additional qualified personnel to provide technological depth and support to enhance existing products and develop new products; and · attract and retain highly skilled computer operating, marketing and financial personnel. We cannot make assurances that we will be successful in attracting, integrating, motivating and retaining key personnel. If we are unable to retain our key personnel and attract additional qualified personnel as and when needed, our business may be adversely affected. We may be unable to effectively manage our growth and expansion, and as a result, our business results may be adversely affected. Our goal is to grow over the next few years. The management of our growth, if any, will require the continued expansion of our operational and financial control systems, as well as a significant increase in our financial resources and in our delivery and service capabilities. These factors could place a significant strain on our resources. Our growth increases the complexity of our operations, places significant demands on our management and our operational, financial and marketing resources and involves a number of challenges, including: · managing geographically dispersed operations; · retaining and motivating key personnel of the acquired businesses; · assimilating different corporate cultures; · preserving the business relationships with existing key customers and suppliers; · maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; and · introducing joint products and service offerings. In recent years, the Company has made several acquisitions, such as the acquisition of Dimex Systems’ business in March 2008, and the acquisition of BOS Supply Chain Solutions (Summit) Inc. ("Summit"), a New Jersey based company, in October 2007 (Summit filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy relief on November 23, 2010). There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate and manage future acquisitions, if they further occur, in order to maintain and grow the combined business and maximize the potential synergies. - 7 - Further, once integrated, acquisitions may not achieve comparable levels of revenues, profitability or productivity as were prior to the acquisitions or otherwise perform as expected. The occurrence of any of these events could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our inability to meet our delivery commitments in a timely manner (as a result of unexpected increases in orders, for example) could result in losses of sales, exposure to contractual penalties, costs or expenses, as well as damage to our reputation in the marketplace. Our inability to manage growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The continued growth of our RFID and Mobile Solutions division depends on our ability to expand sales abroad. Our RFID and Mobile Solutions was unable to significantly expand sales abroad. Due to limitations in the size of the Israeli RFID and Mobile Solutions markets, continued growth of this division depends on our ability to increase our sales abroad. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in generating revenues from sales outside of Israel. We do not have collateral or credit insurance for all of our customers’ debt, and our allowance for bad debts may increase. Our customers’ debt is derived from sales to customers located primarily in Israel, the Far East and Europe. The Company does not generally require collateral; however most of the Company's debt of customers outside of Israel is insured against customer nonpayment through the Israeli Credit Insurance Company Ltd. or through letters of credit. The balance of allowance for bad debt as of December 31, 2012 amounted to $127,000, which was determined by the Company’s management to be sufficient. In face of a global economic slowdown or if a local or global recession reoccurs, we may be required to record additional and significant allowances for bad debts. Certain customers of our Supply Chain Solutions division may cancel purchase orders they placed before the delivery. Supply chain programs for the sale of electronic components, including the programs offered by our Supply Chain Solutions division, are designed to accommodate the preference of customers to work with a limited number of suppliers that are able to provide a wide range of electronic components under one order. In the event we are not able to provide all of the components required by a customer, they could elect to terminate the entire order before its delivery. In addition, certain of our individual product orders provide a right of termination prior to delivery. In the event substantial orders are so cancelled, there is no assurance that we will be able to sell the pre-purchased inventory at a profit, or at all. This could result in excess and obsolete inventory and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. - 8 - The electronic components provided by our Supply Chain Solutions division need to meet certain industry standards and for some customers we need to be the manufacturers’ authorized distributors. The main business of our Supply Chain Solutions division is the provision of electronic components to the aerospace and defense industry. These components need to be in compliance with Aviation Standard number 9120, which was adopted by the International Aerospace Quality Group. Non compliance with these standards could limit our sales. In addition, in face of an increased number of refurbished or non-original components offered in the marketplace, certain customers have begun to insist on purchasing components only directly from authorized distributors of the manufacturers. This could impair our ability to sell components of manufacturers for which we do not serve as authorized dealers and have a substantial adverse effect on our business. The Supply Chain Solutions division engages in a number of business activities governed by U.S. Government Laws and Regulations, which if violated, could subject the Company to civil or criminal fines and penalties. The Supply Chain Solutions division engages in a number of business activities governed by U.S. Government procurement laws and regulations which change frequently, including regulations relating to import-export control and technology transfer restrictions. In addition, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, and similar anti-corruption laws in other jurisdictions, include anti-bribery provisions. If we or our sales representatives fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be subject to administrative, civil, or criminal liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may not always be protected in cases of violation of the FCPA or other anti-corruption laws by our employees or third-parties acting on our behalf. A violation of anti-corruption laws by our employees or third-parties during the performance of their obligations for us may have a material adverse effect on our reputation operating results and financial condition. We rely on certain key suppliers. Most of our sales rely on products of certain key suppliers, which we represent. 41% of our first quarter of 2013 Supply Chain Solutions division purchases were sourced from five key suppliers and 48% of our first quarter of 2013 RFID and Mobile Solutions division purchases were sourced from another five key suppliers. In the year 2012, 14% of our Supply Chain Solutions division purchases were sourced from five key suppliers and 52% of our RFID and Mobile Solutions purchases were sourced from five key suppliers. In the event that any of our key suppliers becomes unable to fulfill our requirements in a timely manner or if we cease our business relationship with these suppliers, we may experience an interruption in delivery and a decrease in our business until an alternative source of supply can be obtained. - 9 - Future changes in industry standards may have an adverse effect on our business. New industry standards in the aviation and defense industry could cause a portion of our Supply Chain Solutions division’s inventory to become obsolete and unmarketable which would adversely affect our results of operations. If revenue levels for any quarter fall below our expectations, our results of operations will be adversely affected. Our revenues in any quarter are substantially dependent on orders received and delivered in that quarter. We base our decisions regarding our operating expenses on anticipated revenue trends, and our expenses levels are relatively fixed, or require some time for adjustment. As a result, revenue levels below our expectations will adversely affect our results of operations. The rate of inflation in Israel may negatively impact our costs if it exceeds the rate of devaluation of the NIS against the U.S. dollar. Similarly, the U.S. dollar cost of our operations in Israel will increase to the extent increases in the rate of inflation in Israel are not offset by a devaluation of the NIS in relation to the U.S. dollar. A substantial amount of our revenues is denominated in U.S. dollars (“U.S. dollars” or “dollars") or is U.S. dollar-linked, but we incur a significant portion of our expenses, principally salaries and related personnel expenses in Israel and rent for our facilities in Israel, in NIS. As a result, we are exposed to the risk that the rate of inflation in Israel will exceed the rate of devaluation of the NIS in relation to the U.S. dollar or that the timing of this devaluation lags behind inflation in Israel. In that event, the U.S. dollar cost of our operations in Israel will increase and our U.S. dollar-measured results of operations will be adversely affected. Similarly, we are exposed to the risk that the NIS, after adjustment for inflation in Israel, will appreciate in relation to the U.S. dollar. In that event, the dollar-measured cost of our operations in Israel will increase and our dollar-measured results of operations will be adversely affected. In 2012 and 2010, the NIS appreciated by approximately 2.3% and 0.7% respectively, against the U.S. dollar and in 2011 the NIS devaluated by approximately 7.7% against the U.S. dollar. In 2010, 2011 and 2012, the annual inflation rate in Israel was approximately 2.7%, 2.17% and 1.63%, respectively, and therefore the U.S. dollar cost of our Israeli operations increased in 2012 and 2010 and decreased in 2011. We cannot predict whether in the future the NIS will appreciate against the U.S. dollar or vice versa. Any increase in the rate of inflation in Israel, unless the increase is offset on a timely basis by a devaluation of the NIS in relation to the U.S. dollar, will increase our labor and other costs, which will increase the U.S. dollar cost of our operations in Israel and harm our results of operations (see “Item 5A. Results of Operation - Impact of Inflation and Currency Fluctuations.”) - 10 - If we are unsuccessful in developing and introducing new products, we may be unable to expand our business. The market for some of our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards. The introduction of products embodying new technology and the emergence of new industry standards can render existing products obsolete and unmarketable and can exert price pressures on existing products. Our ability to anticipate changes in technology and industry standards and successfully develop and introduce new and enhanced products as well as additional applications for existing products, in each case on a timely basis, will be critical in our ability to grow and remain competitive. Although these products are related to, and even incorporate our existing products, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop and market any such new products. If we are unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop products that are competitive in technology and price and responsive to customer needs, our business will be materially adversely affected. Our Supply Chain division has significant sales worldwide and could encounter problems if conditions change in the places where we market our products. We have sold and intend to continue to sell our products in Europe and the Far East. A number of risks are inherent in engaging in international transactions, including: · possible problems in collecting receivables; · imposition of governmental controls, or export license requirements; · political and economic instability in foreign companies; · trade restrictions or changes in tariffs being imposed; and · laws and legal issues concerning foreign countries. If we should encounter such difficulties in conducting our international operations, it may adversely affect our business condition and results of operations. Unfavorable global economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition The financial and economic downturn in the United States and in European countries may cause revenues of our customers to decrease. This may result in reductions in sales of our products and services in some markets, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. In addition, weakness in the end-user market could negatively affect the cash flow of our customers who could, in turn, delay paying their obligations to us. This could increase our credit risk exposure and cause delays in our recognition of revenues on future sales to these customers. If global economic and market conditions do not improve, or weaken further, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. - 11 - We may be obligated to indemnify our directors and officers. The Company has agreements with its directors and senior officers which provide, subject to Israeli law, indemnification by the Company of directors and senior officers for: (a) monetary liability imposed upon them in favor of a third party by a judgment, including a settlement or an arbitral award confirmed by the court, as a result of an act or omission of such person in its capacity as a director or officer of the Company, (b) reasonable litigation expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by them pursuant to an investigation or a proceeding commenced against them by a competent authority if it was terminated without an indictment and without having a monetary charge imposed on them in exchange for a criminal procedure (as such terms are defined in the Israeli Companies Law 1999 – 5759 (the “Israeli Companies Law”)), or that was terminated without an indictment but with a monetary charge imposed on them in exchange for a criminal procedure in a crime that does not require proof of criminal intent, or in connection with a financial sanction, as a result of an act or omission of such person in its capacity as a director or officer of the Company, (c) reasonable litigation expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by such a director or officer or imposed on him by a court, in a proceeding brought against him by or on behalf of the Company or by a third party, or in a criminal action in which he was acquitted, or in a criminal action which does not require criminal intent in which he was convicted, in each case relating to acts or omissions of such person in its capacity as a director or officer of the Company, (d) expenses, including reasonable litigation expenses and legal fees, incurred by such a director or officer as a result of a proceeding instituted against him in relation to (A) infringements that may result in imposition of financial sanction pursuant to the provisions of Chapter H'3 under the Israeli Securities Law or (B) administrative infringements pursuant to the provisions of Chapter H'4 under the Israeli Securities Law or (C) infringements pursuant to the provisions of Chapter I'1 under the Israeli Securities Law; and (e) payments to an injured party of infringement under Section 52ND(a)(1)(a) of the Israeli Securities Law. Payment pursuant to such indemnification may materially adversely affect our financial condition. The measures we take in order to protect our intellectual property may not be effective or sufficient. Our success is dependent upon our proprietary rights and technology. We currently rely on a combination of trade secrets, copyright and trademark law, together with non-disclosure and invention assignment agreements, to establish and protect the proprietary rights and technology used in our products. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, customers and potential customers and limit the access to and the distribution of our proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology without authorization, or to develop similar technology independently. We do not believe that our products and proprietary rights infringe upon the proprietary rights of others. However, there can be no assurance that any other party will not argue otherwise. The cost of responding and adequately protecting ourselves against any such assertion may be material, whether or not the assertion is valid. Further, the laws of certain countries in which we sell our products do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Substantial unauthorized use of our products could have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot make assurances that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technology. Additionally, there are risks that arise from the use of intranet networks and the Internet. Although we utilize firewalls and protection software, we cannot be sure that our proprietary information is secured against penetration. Such penetration, if occurs, could have an adverse effect on our business. - 12 - There can be no assurance that we will not be classified as a passive foreign investment company (a “PFIC”). Based upon our current and projected income, assets and activities, we do not believe that at this time BOS is a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes, but there can be no assurance that we will not be classified as such in the future. Such classification may have grave tax consequences for U.S. shareholders. One method of avoiding such tax consequences is by making a “qualified electing fund” election for the first taxable year in which the Company is a PFIC. However, such an election is conditioned upon our furnishing U.S. shareholders annually with certain tax information. We do not presently prepare or provide such information, and such information may not be available to U.S. shareholders if we are subsequently determined to be a PFIC. You are advised to consult with your own tax advisor regarding the particular tax consequences related to the ownership and disposition of our ordinary shares under your own particular factual circumstances. A decline in the value of our market capitalization could require us to write-down the value of our goodwill, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our balance sheet contains a significant amount of goodwill and other amortizable intangible assets in long-term assets, totaling about $4.5 million at December 31, 2012. We review goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently when indications for potential impairment exist. We review other amortizable intangible assets for impairment when indicators for impairment exist. The volatility of our share price can cause significant changes to our market capitalization. If the value of our market capitalization falls below the value of our stockholders’ equity, it might indicate that impairment is required. An impairment of goodwill may be required if the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value. If our market capitalization experiences a significant decline and is below the value of our stockholders' equity, or if any other quantitative or qualitative indication of impairment of goodwill arises in the future, we may be required to record impairment charges for our goodwill. Any such write-downs, if required, could result in a significant non-economic expense on our income statement, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. - 13 - Risks related to our ordinary shares: Our share price has been and may continue to be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for individual shareholders. The market price of our ordinary shares has been and may continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. From January 2012 through March 2013, the daily closing price of our ordinary shares in NASDAQ has ranged from $1.64 to $8.19 per share. We believe that these fluctuations have been in response to a number of factors including the following, some of which are beyond our control: · variations between actual results and projections; · the limited trading volume in our stock; · changes in our bank debts; · Nasdaq Capital Market Listing Standards non-compliance notices; and · the 1-for 4 reverse stock split that we completed on December 14, 2012. In addition, the stock market in general, and stocks of technology companies in particular, have from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility is often unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our actual operating performance. The Company’s shares may be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market if it does not meet NASDAQ’s continued listing requirements. Over the years, the Company has received several notices from the NASDAQ Stock Market advising it of non-compliance of its shares for continued listing on this market. On January 17, 2012, the Company received a notice from the Listing Qualifications Department of Nasdaq advising us that the Company has failed to comply with Nasdaq’s requirement that listed securities maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share as set forth in Nasdaq Listing Rules. On July 19, 2012, the Company requested a hearing with the Nasdaq Hearings Panel, and a hearing was held on August 30, 2012. The Panel determined that the continued listing of the Company’s securities on Nasdaq was contingent on the Company effecting a reverse stock split in the ratio of 1 for 4 by not later than December 15, 2012, which it did. On January 2, 2013 the Company received a notice from the NASDAQ Office of General Counsel-Hearings, advising that the Company has regained compliance with the applicable minimum bid price rule and is in compliance with all other applicable requirements for listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market. There can be no assurance that the Company will continue to qualify for listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market. If the Company’s ordinary shares are delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, trading in its ordinary shares could be conducted on the over-the-counter market. In addition, if the Company’s ordinary shares were delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, it would be subject to the so-called penny stock rules that impose restrictive sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell those securities. Consequently, de-listing, if it occurred, could affect the ability of the shareholders to sell their ordinary shares in the secondary market. The restrictions applicable to shares that are de-listed, as well as the lack of liquidity for shares that are traded on an electronic bulletin board, may adversely affect the market price of such shares. - 14 - Risks related to our location in Israel: Political, economic, and security conditions in Israel affect our operations and may limit our ability to produce and sell our products or provide our services. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel, where we also maintain our headquarters and our principal research and development and sales and marketing facilities. Since its establishment in 1948, Israel has been involved in a number of armed conflicts with its Arab neighbors and a state of hostility, varying from time to time in intensity and degree, has continued into 2013. In recent years, there was an escalation in violence among Israel, Hamas, the Palestinian Authority and other groups. Also, since 2011, riots and uprisings in several countries in the Middle East and neighboring regions have led to severe political instability in several neighboring states and to a decline in the regional security situation. Such instability may affect the local and global economy, could negatively affect business conditions and, therefore, could adversely affect our operations. In addition, Iran has threatened to attack Israel and is widely believed to be developing nuclear weapons. Iran is also believed to have a strong influence among extremist groups in areas that neighbor Israel, such as Hamas in Gaza and Hezbollah in Lebanon. To date, these matters have not had any material effect on our business and results of operations; however, the regional security situation and worldwide perceptions of it are outside our control and there can be no assurance that these matters will not negatively affect us in the future. Furthermore, several countries, principally those in the Middle East, as well as Malaysia and Indonesia, still restrict business with Israel and Israeli companies. Restrictive laws or policies directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses may have an adverse impact on our operations, our financial results or the expansion of our business. A number of our key personnel in Israel have standing obligations to perform periodic reserve duty in the Israel Defense Forces and are subject to be called for active military duty at any time. If our key personnel are absent from our business for a significant period of time, we may experience disruptions in our business that could affect the development, sales or technical support of our products. As a result, we might not be able to compete in the market and our results of operations could be harmed. - 15 - The anti-takeover effects of Israeli laws may delay or deter a change of control of the Company. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make undesirable a merger or an acquisition of all or a significant portion of our shares or assets. Israeli corporate law regulates acquisitions of shares through tender offers and mergers, requires special approvals for transactions involving significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. These provisions of Israeli law could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions may limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for our ordinary shares. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions undesirable to us or to some of our shareholders. These laws may have the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control of the Company, thereby limiting the opportunity for shareholders to receive a premium for their shares and possibly affecting the price that some investors are willing to pay for the Company’s securities. All of our directors and officers are non-U.S. residents and enforceability of civil liabilities against them is uncertain. All of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States. Service of process upon them may be difficult to effect within the United States. Furthermore, because the majority of our assets are located in Israel, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of our directors and non-U.S. officers may not be collectible within the United States. Your rights and responsibilities as our shareholder will be governed by Israeli law, which differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders of United States corporations. Since we are incorporated under Israeli law, the rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by our articles of association and Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in United States-based corporations. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith towards the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing its power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters, such as an amendment to the company’s articles of association, an increase of the company’s authorized share capital, a merger and approval of related party transactions that require shareholder approval. In addition, a shareholder who knows that it possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholders’ vote or to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or executive officer in the company has a duty of fairness towards the company. These provisions may be interpreted to impose additional obligations and liabilities on our shareholders that are not typically imposed on shareholders of U.S. corporations. - 16 - As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on The Nasdaq Capital Market, we may in the future elect to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain Nasdaq requirements. We are a foreign private issuer as such term is defined under U.S. federal securities laws. As a foreign private issuer, we may elect to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of the Marketplace Rules of The Nasdaq Capital Market, or the Nasdaq Marketplace Rules. We may in the future elect to follow Israeli corporate governance practices with regard to, among other things, the composition of our board of directors, compensation of officers, director nomination procedures and quorum requirements at shareholders’ meetings. In addition, we may elect to follow Israeli corporate governance practices instead of the Nasdaq requirements to obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events (such as for the establishment or amendment of certain equity-based compensation plans, issuances that will result in a change of control of the company, certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of a 20% or more interest in the company and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company). Accordingly, our shareholders may not be afforded the same protection as provided under Nasdaq’s corporate governance rules. Following our home country governance practices as opposed to the requirements that would otherwise apply to a U.S. company listed on The Nasdaq Capital Market may provide less protection than is accorded to investors of domestic issuers. In addition, as a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from the rules and regulations under the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, related to the furnishing and content of proxy statements, and our officers, directors, and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and short-swing profit recovery provisions contained in Section 16 of the Exchange Act. In addition, we are not required under the Exchange Act to file annual, quarterly and current reports and financial statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission as frequently or as promptly as domestic companies whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act. If we were to lose our foreign private issuer status under U.S. federal securities laws, we would incur additional expenses associated with compliance with the U.S. securities laws applicable to U.S. domestic issuers. As a foreign private issuer, we are not required to comply with all of the periodic disclosure and current reporting requirements applicable to U.S. domestic issuers, as explained above. The regulatory and compliance costs to us under U.S. securities laws, if we are required to comply with the reporting requirements applicable to a U.S. domestic issuer, may be significantly higher than the cost we currently incur as a foreign private issuer. 