risk factors affecting our operations are described below. VOCALTEC INCURRED SIGNIFICANT HISTORICAL OPERATING LOSSES AND THERE IS NO ASSURANCE THAT THE COMPANY WILL NOT CONTINUE TO INCUR OPERATING LOSSES IN THE FUTURE. Since its incorporation in 1989, VocalTec (prior to the business combination) had limited sales and has incurred significant operating losses. The company had operating losses of $7.1 million and $14.4 million in 2006 and 2007, respectively and a profit of $ 3.7 million in 2008, and may continue to incur operating losses in the future due to, among other reasons, the fact that the Company operates in new target markets and sells to new customers, has recently started selling not only its products on a stand-alone basis but also in conjunction with third party products as a broader solution, has not yet obtained substantial credibility and market share of its VoIP equipment in some of these markets and had not yet gained experience with such new third party products. To achieve profitability and increased sales levels, the Company must, among other things, establish and increase market demand and acceptance of its products, respond effectively to competitive pressures, offer high quality customer service and support, introduce advanced versions and enhancements of its products as well as new products that meet market needs on a timely basis, and constantly increase operational efficiency. The Company may incur operating losses again in 2009 and thereafter, if revenues are insufficient to cover sales and marketing, research and development, administrative and other expenses. If revenue levels do not increase sufficiently, operating results will be adversely affected because any reduction in expenses may not sufficiently cover a reduction in revenues. There is no assurance that the Company will achieve or sustain significant sales or profitability in the future. WE HAVE EXPERIENCED AND MAY CONTINUE TO EXPERIENCE SIGNIFICANT FLUCTUATIONS IN OUR QUARTERLY RESULTS, WHICH MIGHT MAKE IT DIFFICULT FOR INVESTORS TO MAKE RELIABLE PERIOD-TO-PERIOD COMPARISONS AND MAY CONTRIBUTE TO VOLATILITY IN THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR ORDINARY SHARES. Our operating results have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate from period to period for a number of reasons. Due to the past volatility of the market for telecommunication equipment, we cannot predict the impact on our revenues or results of operations that any deterioration in such market may have. There are several market conditions that could continue to cause our customers and potential customers to be conservative in their spending: o Networks that are based on old Time Division Multiplexing, or TDM, equipment which has been used by telecommunications carriers for several decades, are still operating and generating revenues. 7 o Large and mid-size carriers are showing an increased interest in migrating their TDM-based, Public Switch Telephone Networks, or PSTNs, to VoIP softswitch-based networks, in order to enable advanced, IP-based services and save costs, but there is still uncertainty with respect to the extent and timing of shifting PSTNs to VoIP softswitch networks. o As a result of our long sales cycle (described below under "OUR ESSENTRA PRODUCTS GENERALLY HAVE A LONG SALES CYCLE, WHICH INCREASES OUR COSTS IN OBTAINING ORDERS, REDUCES THE PREDICTABILITY OF OUR EARNINGS AND REQUIRES HIGH WORKING CAPITAL"), we may need extended time to build up an order backlog. o Increased competition, from new service providers and companies such as Skype, which offer cheap, or even free, telephony, causing financial pressure on our customers. o Macro economic conditions, including worldwide recessions, causing our potential customers to be more conservative with their capital expenditures. o Evolving new technologies which may cause our customers to delay their deployment plans and wait for these new technologies to mature. These and other factors make the forecasting of sales inherently uncertain. Significant annual and quarterly fluctuations in our results of operations may also be caused by, among other factors, the timing and composition of orders from our customers, reduced prices for our products, the economic viability and credit-worthiness of our customers, the collectability of our receivables, the timing of new product announcements and releases of new products by us and by our competitors. Our future results may also be affected by our ability to continue to develop, introduce and deliver enhanced and new products in a timely manner, to offer new products at competitive prices, to offer existing products at lower prices, to compete with competitors that are larger than us and to anticipate and meet customer demands. There can be no assurance that sales in any particular quarter will not be lower than those of the preceding quarters, including comparable quarters. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. The volatility in our operating results may also result in significant volatility in our share price. It is also possible that our quarterly results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. If this happens, the price of our ordinary shares is likely to decrease. GLOBAL RECESSION AND CONTINUED CREDIT CONSTRAINTS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT US. The downturn in the global economy that accelerated during the second half of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009, resulting in a weakness of the global credit markets, failures or material business deterioration of investment banks, commercial banks and other financial institutions and intermediaries worldwide and significant reductions in asset values across businesses, households and individuals, combined with other financial and economic indicators, have resulted in a global recession. We have already been feeling the effect of such recession, primarily in Russia, where certain transactions have been terminated or put on hold due to the inability of prospective customers to finance the purchase of our products and services. If these conditions continue or worsen, they may result in reduced demand or funding for projects incorporating our products and solutions, longer sales cycles for our projects or termination of contracted projects by our and prospective customers, which may adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, risks of widespread insolvency, mass unemployment and the deterioration of various sectors of the economies where we operate have increased due to the global economic downturn. Any further slowdown in the development of these economies or any reduction in the investment budgets of local companies which may lead to termination of contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. Among other things, we might face: o Potential declines in orders for our customer service and support solutions and in our revenues from such solutions due to reduced or postponed orders or other factors caused by economic challenges faced by our customers and prospective customers; o Longer sales processes and a need for increased efforts to secure projects; o Potential adverse impact on our customers' and prospective customers' ability to pay, when due, amounts payable to us; and o Potential re-evaluation by our customers and prospective customers of approved or contracted projects in order to address budget reductions or other impacts and factors of the current economic conditions by such customers and prospective customers. 8 Any of the above could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. These economic conditions also impact our ability to forecast orders and revenues and our ability to provide guidance for our performance. WE DO NOT HAVE LONG TERM CONTRACTS IN PLACE WITH CUSTOMERS. In certain of the geographical locations in which we are active, we typically sell products pursuant to purchase orders that customers can generally cancel or defer on short notice without incurring a significant penalty. Any significant cancellations or deferrals could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, cancellations or deferrals could cause us to hold excess inventory, which could reduce our profit margins and restrict our ability to fund our operations. THERE IS NO ASSURANCE THAT WE WILL BE SUCCESSFUL IN OBTAINING AND MAINTAINING A SUFFICIENT MARKET SHARE FOR OUR PRODUCTS. IN ADDITION, WE HAVE BEEN ENCOUNTERING VARIOUS CHALLENGES AFFECTING THE SALE OF OUR PRODUCTS. Since the consummation of the business combination with Tdsoft in November 2005, the Company has been focusing its development efforts on the Essentra line of products. The Essentra product solutions were already deployed by several customers and are carrying live traffic; however, certain elements of the products are still subject to additional development and adaptations and have not yet been used extensively by customers, which prevents us from demonstrating a proven track record and wide deployment references, which are crucial for our growth and expansion to larger carriers. Furthermore, unlike the companies' first generation of products, which were unique and the first of their kind to be introduced to the telecommunications market, the Essentra products compete with existing, comparable products of various companies, some of which have certain advantages over us, including larger financial resources, access to prospective customers and an established market for their products. Our products must comply with various international and domestic regulations and standards defined by regulatory agencies. If we do not comply with existing or evolving industry standards and other regulatory requirements or if we fail to obtain in a timely manner any required domestic or foreign regulatory approvals or certificates, we will not be able to sell our products where these standards or regulations apply, which may harm our business. Maintaining and increasing our revenues are dependent, among other things, upon the ability of our products to meet market and customer requirements. To this end, we are involved in a continuous process to evaluate changing market demands and customer requirements, and to develop and introduce new products, features and applications to meet such changing demands and requirements. In addition, prospective customers may require product features and capabilities that are not included in our current product offerings. The introduction of new or enhanced products also requires that we carefully manage the transition from our older products as we ensure the continued provision of maintenance and other services for our older products. A number of risks are inherent in this process, including the fact that we may not successfully anticipate market requirements or complete the development or introduction of these products and that the development of new technologies and products is increasingly complex and uncertain. This can result in delays in the introduction of new technologies and products, and requires close collaboration and continued technological advancement involving multiple software design teams and outside suppliers of key components. The failure of any one of these elements could cause new products to fail to meet specifications, market requirements or customer demands, or to miss delivery schedules. If we fail to develop products and offer services that satisfy customer requirements, or if we fail to effectively manage the transition from our older products to our new or enhanced products, our ability to create or increase demand for our products would be seriously harmed and we may lose current and prospective customers, thereby harming our business. Deployment, sale and marketing of products in certain countries may subject us to environmental and other regulations including, in some instances, the requirement to provide to customers the ability to return products at the end of their useful life. Further, our results could be adversely affected by factors such as lack of market acceptance of our products, delays in product development, and delays in customer purchases of products in anticipation of the introduction of new products and the rapidly changing landscape of emerging standards. In addition, telecommunications carriers increasingly require that VoIP products be designed to meet local homologation and regulatory requirements, such as lawful interception and other requirements to demonstrate interoperability with existing networks of incumbent telecommunications carriers, each of which may have different specifications. Failure to obtain such homologation certifications or other industry standard certifications for our products may result in decreased revenues and support and repair costs, which may divert the attention of our engineering personnel and may cause significant customer relations problems. Due to the fact that we have been developing and offering new products, some of which are targeted at new customers in new markets, we have encountered and expect to continue to encounter various challenges. In addition, while seeking midsize carriers, we offer solutions to alternative small carriers as well, raising the need for flexibility and competitiveness within a wide range of solutions. Also, our solutions have to be inter-operable with offerings of various third parties, which results in a more complex and expensive development and upgrading of the products. Furthermore, in recent years we have witnessed an increasing competition in the VoIP market, resulting in declining prices, as VoIP has become more of a mainstream technology. One of the main challenges in penetrating the market with the products offered by VocalTec relates to the ability to provide a broad, and to a certain extent complete, solution, which includes third party elements. 9 Therefore, there is no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining and maintaining a sufficient market share for the existing Essentra products and our future products. OUR BUSINESS DEPENDS TO A CERTAIN EXTENT ON THE ABILITY OF OUR CHANNELS AND BUSINESS PARTNERS WHO PURCHASE OUR PRODUCTS TO ACHIEVE BROAD MARKET ACCEPTANCE FOR THEIR PRODUCTS. IF THESE CHANNELS AND BUSINESS PARTNERS DO NOT SUCCEED IN SELLING THEIR PRODUCTS, THIS WILL REDUCE DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS AND OUR REVENUES WILL BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. In many cases our products are sold through channels, i.e., vendors, systems integrators and business partners, who repackage or resell our products, under varying types of OEM or reseller arrangements, to communications service providers (rather than us selling our products directly to these service providers). To continue this method of sales, we will have to allocate resources to train vendors, systems integrators and business partners as to the use of our products, resulting in additional costs and additional time until sales by such vendors, systems integrators and business partners are made feasible. Our business depends to a certain extent upon the success of such channels and the broad market acceptance of their products. To the extent that our channels are unsuccessful in selling their products, and as a result, our products, our revenues and operating results will be adversely affected. Many factors out of our control could interfere with our ability to market, license, implement or support our products with any of our channels, which in turn could harm our business. These factors include, but are not limited to, a change in the business strategy of our channels, the introduction of competitive product offerings by other companies that are sold through one or more of our channels, potential contract defaults by one or more of our channels or changes in ownership or management of one or more of our channels. Some of our competitors may have stronger relationships with our channels than we do, and we have limited control, if any, as to whether those channels implement our products rather than our competitors' products or whether they devote resources to market and support our competitors' products rather than our offerings. Also, the loss of or reduction in sales by these channels could reduce our revenues. If we fail to maintain relationships with these channels, fail to develop new channels, fail to effectively manage, train, or provide incentives to existing channels or if these channels are not successful in their sales efforts, sales of our products may decrease and our operating results would suffer. OUR ESSENTRA PRODUCTS GENERALLY HAVE A LONG SALES CYCLE, WHICH INCREASES OUR COSTS IN OBTAINING ORDERS, REDUCES THE PREDICTABILITY OF OUR EARNINGS AND REQUIRES SIGNIFICANT WORKING CAPITAL. Our Essentra products are technologically complex and are typically intended for use in solutions that may be critical to the business of our customers. Prospective customers for such products generally must make a significant commitment of resources to test and evaluate products and to integrate them into their solutions. As a result, the sales process for such products is long and often subject to delays associated with lengthy approval processes that typically accompany the design and testing of our solutions. The sales cycles of our products to new customers currently average 6 to 12 months from the time we make a proposal to a customer until the time the customer begins using the relevant product in production mode. This requires us to invest significant resources to make sales, which increases our costs in obtaining orders and reduces the predictability of our sales. In addition, in some cases we need to finance the equipment that we install in our customers' premises during the period of installment, testing and approval of the equipment, which requires us to allocate working capital for the period of such financing. Furthermore, in many cases the sale of our products is conditioned upon a trial period during which the products are installed at the customers' premises, which installation requires an investment by us of capital and manpower, without assurance that the customers will in fact purchase the products. Long sales cycles also subject us to risks not usually encountered by companies whose products have short sales cycles, complicating our planning processes and reducing the predictability of our earnings. These risks include: o a pre-sale process that includes traveling, demonstrations, technical and commercial sessions, and trial procedure intended for defining customers' needs, all of which involve additional costs; o the potential cancellation of orders based on our customers' changing budgetary constraints; o the shift in orders expected between quarters because of the timing of our customers' procurement decisions; and o Changes in organizational structure and decision makers within our customers necessitating that we establish new relationships and effectively restart the sales process. 10 BECAUSE MANY OF OUR CURRENT AND PLANNED PRODUCTS ARE HIGHLY COMPLEX, THEY MAY CONTAIN DEFECTS OR ERRORS THAT ARE DETECTED ONLY AFTER DEPLOYMENT IN COMMERCIAL APPLICATIONS. MOREOVER, OUR CUSTOMERS MAY BUNDLE OUR PRODUCTS WITH THE PRODUCTS OF OTHER PROVIDERS THAT CONTAIN DEFECTS THAT ARE WHOLLY UNRELATED TO OUR PRODUCTS. IN EITHER INSTANCE, IF THIS OCCURS, IT COULD HARM OUR REPUTATION AND RESULT IN REDUCED REVENUES OR INCREASED EXPENSES. Our products are highly complex and may contain undetected defects, errors or failures. These products are deployed in complex and versatile networks, which include complex equipment of other vendors. Although we invest heavily in testing our products, we cannot simulate and test all potential events and cases relating to the operation of our products, and as a result, in some cases our customers may discover errors after the products have been deployed. The occurrence of any defects, errors or failures could result in: o product returns, repairs or replacements; o cancellation of and reduction in orders; o uncollectible accounts receivable and delays in collecting accounts receivable; o diversion of our resources; o legal actions by our customers or our customers' end users; o adverse effect to our reputation; o increased insurance costs; and o other losses to us, our customers or the end users of our products. Any of these occurrences could also result in the loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products and loss of sales, which would harm our business and adversely affect our results of operations. There can be no assurance that, despite testing by us or by our customers, errors will not be found in our products after commencement of commercial deployment. We have from time to time experienced defects in our products and may experience defects in the future. We may in the future incur costs associated with support services. Moreover, as our solutions grow in complexity, this risk may intensify over time and may result in increased expenses. In addition, our customers may bundle, incorporate or connect our products into or to complex systems that contain errors or defects that may be unrelated to our products. Such occurrences may result in undue delays or cancellations of the implementation of our customers' bundled products and services. In such cases, our reputation could be harmed and our results of operations could be adversely affected, which could result in reduced revenues or increased expenses. IF OUR RELATIONSHIP WITH ANY OF OUR KEY CUSTOMERS IS TERMINATED, OUR REVENUES WILL DECLINE AND OUR BUSINESS WILL BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. During 2008, Mobifon-2000, Deutsche Telekom and ITI accounted for 26%, 15% and 14%, respectively, of our revenues. If our relationship with any of these customers is terminated, or if either of these key customers reduces purchases of our products or maintenance or replaces existing equipment in its networks with competing products, then our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. In the past, we were adversely affected by the termination of relationships with key customers, as well as reductions in orders from key customers. The impact of the termination or reduction of our key customer relationships would be intensified if we were unable to establish and increase sales to other customers in order to offset this termination or reduction. WE DEPEND TO A CERTAIN DEGREE ON THIRD PARTIES FOR THE SUPPLY AND QUALITY OF HARDWARE AND SOFTWARE ELEMENTS REQUIRED FOR THE MARKETING OF OUR PRODUCTS, AND ANY DELAY OR DISRUPTION IN THE SUPPLY OF THESE PRODUCTS WILL ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS. IN ADDITION, INACCURATE ESTIMATES OF OUR INVENTORY/PURCHASING REQUIREMENTS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. FURTHERMORE, ERRORS OR DEFECTS IN OTHER VENDORS' PRODUCTS WITH WHICH OUR PRODUCTS ARE INTEGRATED COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE MARKET ACCEPTANCE OF OUR OFFERINGS AND EXPOSE US TO PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS FROM OUR CUSTOMERS. As many times our customers require from us a "complete solution", that comprises, in addition to our Essentra Software, various third party elements, we depend on such third-party partners for the successful marketing of our products (including IBM, Dialogic, AudioCodes and various other suppliers for Operating System software, SIP and SS7 software, as well as additional software and other elements). If we overestimate our purchasing requirements, we could have excess inventory, which would increase our costs and result in write-downs harming our operating results. If we underestimate our requirements, we may not have an adequate supply, which could result in delays in shipments and revenues. We currently do not have long-term supply contracts with our third-party suppliers and they are not required to supply us with products for any specified periods, in any specified quantities or at any set price, except as may be specified in a particular purchase order. Because the key components of our products are complex and often require integration into our solutions, in the event of a disruption or delay in supply or an inability to obtain products, we may not be able to develop an alternate source in a timely manner, at favorable prices, or at all. 11 Following the sale and installation of our products, we rely on our hardware and software suppliers (to varying extents) for maintenance and support services that we provide to our customers. To that end, our agreements with our suppliers include obligations of our suppliers to provide us with certain levels of service and maintenance, as well as restrictions on the right of the supplier to discontinue the product or the support services we purchase from them. In addition, manufacturing problems may occur with these third parties. A supplier may supply us with products and components that do not meet our quality, quantity or cost requirement, or may cease to provide support with respect to the hardware and software purchased by the Company; therefore, we face the risk of inadequate supply, price increases, late deliveries, poor quality and failure in the availability and level of support and maintenance, as any supplier may terminate its relationship with us. If we were to lose our relationship with any of such suppliers, the lead time required to qualify new suppliers could be several months. Also, if we lose our relationship with any of such suppliers or these suppliers are otherwise unable to satisfy our volume and delivery schedule requirements, it may be difficult to locate alternative suppliers that are able to develop, manufacture, deliver and provide products, service and maintenance with respect to the specialized components we need for our products in the desired lead times and quality. Furthermore, if we experience quality problems from any of our component suppliers, it could take us a significant amount of time to identify the problem as associated with a particular component, ascertain whether this is as a result of a design or a manufacturing flaw and either correct the problem, if possible, replace the components or find an alternate source of supply. Any such quality problem or delay could, in addition to causing us lost sales, detrimentally affect our reputation in the market and cause us to incur additional costs as a result of the recall and replacement of affected products. Also, our dependence on third party suppliers of hardware significantly limits our ability to compete successfully with some of our competitors, which supply themselves the hardware components that are used in their solutions and therefore have the flexibility of making more competitive offers to potential customers. Finally, because our products are generally used together with other vendors' software and hardware products, our products must integrate successfully with such products. As a result, when our customers encounter problems, it may be difficult to identify the product that caused the problem. System errors, whether caused by our products or those of another vendor, could adversely affect the market acceptance of our products, and any necessary revisions could cause us to incur significant expenses. Regardless of the source of these errors or defects, we will need to divert the attention of engineering personnel from our product development efforts to address errors or defects detected. These errors or defects could cause us to incur service or repair costs, liability claims or lags or delays. Moreover, the occurrence of errors or defects, whether caused by our products or the products of another vendor, may significantly harm our relations with customers, or result in the loss of customers, harm our reputation and impair market acceptance of our products. Therefore, one of our strategies is to provide our customers with a full solution, by assembling and integrating with our products third parties' technologies and products. Such strategy warrants the allocation of technological and human resources, which may disrupt our ongoing business, disproportionately occupy the time and attention of our management and employees, increase our expenses and adversely affect our results of operations. Furthermore, we may not successfully integrate the various components or offer the full solution with such integrated technologies on a timely basis or at competitive prices, and there can be no assurance that we will not suffer from design and quality challenges in connection with the integration of the technologies and products. Furthermore, some of our competitors also offer such a "full solution", and we do not know if we will be able to compete successfully in this market. THERE IS NO ASSURANCE THAT DEVELOPING NEW TECHNOLOGIES AND PRODUCTS WILL NOT CAUSE DELAYS IN OUR DELIVERY CAPABILITIES. We continually seek to develop new products and invest in new technologies. A number of risks are inherent to this process. We may not successfully anticipate market requirements or complete the development or introduction of these new technologies and products. The development of new technologies and products is increasingly complex and uncertain. This can result in delays in the introduction of new technologies and products, and requires close collaboration and continued technological advancement involving multiple hardware and software design teams and outside suppliers of key components. The failure of any one of these elements could cause new products to fail to meet specifications, market requirements or customer demands, or to miss delivery schedules. In addition, if we fail to develop products and offer services that satisfy customer requirements, our ability to create or increase demand for our products would be seriously harmed and we may lose current and prospective customers, thereby harming our business. WE HAVE NO BACK-TO-BACK LIABILITY INSURANCE AGAINST DAMAGES RESULTING FROM THE INTEGRATION OF THIRD PARTY COMPONENTS, WHICH MAY LEAVE US VULNERABLE TO FUTURE CLAIMS WE WILL BE UNABLE TO SATISFY. The testing, marketing and sale of a full solution, which includes third party products and elements integrated together by us, entails an inherent risk of product liability claims, and we cannot assure you that substantial product liability claims will not be asserted against us. We have no back-to-back product liability insurance from the third parties we purchase products and components from. In the event we are forced to expend significant funds on defending product liability actions, and in the event those funds come from operating income and are not sufficiently covered by such back-to-back liability undertakings from such third parties, it could materially adversely affect our ability to attract new customers and retain existing customers. In addition, claims of this kind could divert management time and attention and could result in significant cost to investigate and defend, regardless of the merits of any of these claims. The filing of any claims of this kind may also damage our reputation and decrease demand for our products. 12 WE MAY BE UNABLE TO ADEQUATELY PROTECT OUR PROPRIETARY RIGHTS, WHICH MAY LIMIT OUR ABILITY TO COMPETE EFFECTIVELY. Our success is dependent, to a significant extent, upon our proprietary technology. We currently rely on a combination of trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark law, together with non-disclosure, contractual licensing restrictions, and invention assignment agreements, to establish and protect the proprietary rights and technology used in our products. There can be no assurance, however, that such measures will provide commercially significant protection for our proprietary technology, that competitors will not develop products with features based upon, or otherwise similar to, our products or that we will be able to prevent competitors from selling similar products. Specifically, our ability to adequately protect our proprietary rights in Ukraine (where a portion of our research and development operations is outsourced to subcontractors) is unclear due to the political instability in such country and the fact that the protection of intellectual properties in eastern European countries has traditionally been difficult to achieve. The sale of a major part of our patent portfolio during 2008 (See "4.A - History and Development of the Company") has weakened our ability to protect our proprietary technology. In addition, the software market has traditionally experienced widespread unauthorized reproduction of products in violation of manufacturers' intellectual property rights. Such activity is difficult to detect and legal proceedings to enforce the manufacturers' intellectual property rights are often burdensome and involve a high degree of uncertainty and costs. Unauthorized use and reproduction of the registration codes contained in our various software products has occurred from time to time and may continue to occur in the future. There can be no assurance that our software products will not experience unauthorized use or reproduction on a massive scale, which may result in an adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. OUR MANAGEMENT HAS IDENTIFIED MATERIAL WEAKNESSES IN OUR INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING. UNTIL WE REMEDY SUCH MATERIAL WEAKNESSES, THERE IS A REASONABLEPOSSIBILITY THAT OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MAY BE MISSTATED. As disclosed in Item 15T of this annual report, our management performed an assessment of our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of the period covered by this annual report and determined that we had material weaknesses with respect to the financial statement close process. Although we have taken remedial steps in connection therewith, until we are able to completely remedy such material weaknesses or if we are not successful in remedying such material weaknesses, there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the Company's annual financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis, which could require a restatement of the Company's annual financial statements and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. This could lead to a decrease in the price of our shares. In addition, if we fail to finalize implementing the improvements of our system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our future financial results and our management may not be able to conclude that we have effective disclosure controls and procedures and effective internal controls over financial reporting as required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO ENFORCE AGAINST OUR EMPLOYEES AND SUBCONTRACTORS COVENANTS NOT TO COMPETE AND THEREFORE MAY BE UNABLE TO PREVENT OUR COMPETITORS FROM BENEFITING FROM THE EXPERTISE OF SOME OF OUR FORMER EMPLOYEES AND SUBCONTRACTORS. We currently have non-competition clauses in the employment agreements of nearly all of our employees, including all of our key employees. The provisions of such clauses prohibit our employees, if they cease working for us, from directly competing with us or working for our competitors. Israeli case law requires employers seeking to enforce non-compete undertakings against former employees to demonstrate that the competitive activities of the former employees will cause harm to one of a limited number of material interests of the employer recognized by the courts (for example, the confidentiality of certain commercial information or a company's trade secrets). In the event that any of our employees chooses to work for one of our competitors, we may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise our former employees obtained from us, if we cannot demonstrate to the court that we would be harmed. Additionally, our ability to enforce non-compete covenants against our sub-contractors in Ukraine, where we conduct a portion of our research and development operations, is unclear. 13 LITIGATION AND OTHER DISPUTES REGARDING OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY OR THE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY OF OUR SUPPLIERS COULD PROVE COSTLY AND THEREBY ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR FINANCIAL POSITION AND COULD ALSO RESULT IN AN INJUNCTION OR JUDGMENT AGAINST US, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Third parties have asserted patent infringement and other claims against us from time to time. A number of these claims were directed at certain basic and fundamental components of our products. There can be no assurance that third parties will not assert such claims against us in the future or that such present and future claims will not be successful. In addition, third parties may in the future assert patent infringement and other claims against us in connection with components used in our products that are manufactured by our suppliers. Patents relating to basic technologies in the communications and multimedia areas have been recently allowed and patents may be filed in the future which relate to basic technologies incorporated in our products. Also, from time to time there have been claims challenging the ownership of open source software against companies that incorporate open source software into their products. We use certain open source software in our products and may use more open source software in the future. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software. We would incur substantial costs and would experience diversion of management resources with respect to the defense of any claims relating to proprietary rights, and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, parties making such claims could secure a judgment awarding substantial damages, as well as injunctive or other equitable relief which could effectively block our ability to make, use, sell, distribute or otherwise license our products in the United States or any other jurisdiction. Such a judgment could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Litigation, which is generally costly and time-consuming, may be necessary to determine the scope and validity of others' proprietary rights or to enforce any patents issued to us, in judicial or administrative proceedings. In the event a claim relating to proprietary technology or information is asserted against us, we may seek licenses for such intellectual property. There can be no assurance, however, that licenses could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, or that the terms of any offered licenses will be acceptable to us. The failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights could preclude the sale, manufacture or distribution of our products and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The cost of responding to any such claim may be material, whether or not the assertion of such claim is valid. ANY FUTURE MERGERS WITH OR ACQUISITIONS OF COMPANIES OR TECHNOLOGIES AND THE RESULTING INTEGRATION PROCESS MAY DISTRACT THE ATTENTION OF OUR MANAGEMENT AND DISRUPT OUR BUSINESS. In recent years, the telecommunications market has experienced consolidation. One of our business strategies is to pursue strategic partnerships, alliances, mergers and/or acquisitions of complementary businesses, products and technologies. Pursuit of such strategies requires significant investments in management time and attention, and we have limited experience in the consummation of strategic partnerships, alliances, mergers and acquisitions and in the post-transaction integration. Mergers with or acquisitions of companies involve a number of risks including the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of the merged or acquired companies and of maintaining uniform standards, controls and policies. There can be no assurance that technology or rights acquired by us will be incorporated successfully into products we introduce or market, that such products will achieve market acceptance or that we will not encounter other problems in connection with such acquisitions. Such acquisitions may expose us to additional risks, including the following: - we may find that the acquired company, asset or technology does not further our business strategy, that we overpaid for the company, asset or technology or that the economic conditions underlying our acquisition decision have changed; - we may have difficulty retaining the key personnel of the acquired company; - our ongoing business and management's attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing geographically or culturally diverse enterprises; and - we may experience significant problems or liabilities associated with product quality, technology and legal contingencies relating to the acquired business or technology, such as intellectual property or employment matters. In addition, if we proceed with one or more significant acquisitions or investments in which the consideration includes cash, we are likely to be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash. To the extent we issue securities as consideration in such acquisitions, existing shareholders might be diluted and earnings per share might decrease. In addition, acquisitions and investments may result in the incurrence of debt, large one-time write-offs, such as acquired in-process research and development costs, and restructuring charges. WE MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED IF THE EXCHANGE RATE FLUCTUATIONS DECREASE OUR EARNINGS AND IF WE ARE NOT ABLE TO HEDGE OUR CURRENCY EXCHANGE RISKS EFFECTIVELY. A significant portion of our sales are made outside of Israel in United States Dollars (USD) and we incur a significant portion of our expenses in New Israeli Shekels (NIS). The cost of our operations in Israel, as expressed in USD, is influenced by the extent to which any increase in the rate of inflation is not offset by the devaluation of the NIS in relation to the USD. Inflation in Israel may have the effect of increasing the USD cost of our operations in Israel. If the USD declines in value in relation to the NIS, it will become more expensive for us to fund our operations in Israel. During 2005, the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar to the NIS increased; this trend reversed in 2006, and continued to further decrease in 2007 and in the first half of 2008, reversing again towards the end of 2008. 14 In addition, as of now, most of our global sales have been in U.S. dollars and have not been adversely affected by foreign currency fluctuations. If global business conditions require us to sell our solutions in other local currencies, our sales may be adversely affected by devaluation of local currencies against the U.S. dollar. If, on the other hand, such local currencies' value increases against the U.S. dollar, our sales (in U.S. dollar terms) will be positively affected. WE ARE SUBJECT TO STRONG COMPETITION. ACCEPTANCE OF OUR COMPETITORS' PRODUCTS AND TECHNOLOGIES COULD RESULT IN REDUCED REVENUES OR GROSS MARGINS. The competition in the VoIP equipment for the communications market is very strong. Our competitors include several VoIP equipment vendors. Many of our competitors are larger than we are, and can offer more comprehensive solutions either on their own or by partnering with others. In addition, many of our competitors have greater name recognition, larger installed customer bases, broader product offerings, and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Finally, some of these competitors are not dependent, as we are, on third parties for the supply and quality of components required for the operation of their products. Such competition may result in a reduction in prices. Even if we reduce the prices of our products, there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully and effectively for deals against our competitors' product offerings. Furthermore, if we reduce our prices below current levels due to competition, we may incur operating lossesagain. In the future, additional competitors may include companies that currently provide computer software products and services, such as telephone, media and cable television. The ability of some of our competitors to bundle other enhanced services and other products with VoIP products could give these competitors an advantage over us. WE ARE DEPENDENT UPON THE CONTINUED EMPLOYMENT OF KEY PERSONNEL. Our future success depends to a significant extent upon the continued active participation of our directors, senior executive officers, management members and other key employees. The loss of the services of any such person may adversely affect the development and sales of our products and the management of our company and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. These persons are not bound by employment agreements for any specific term. Our success is also dependent upon our continuing ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel and key engineers and sales and marketing personnel to perform research and development, commercialize products, and perform the sales and marketing functions required to bring these products to the market. There can be no assurance that we will continue to attract and retain such personnel. Even if we are successful in hiring additional qualified sales and engineering personnel, we will incur additional costs and our operating results, including our gross margin, may be adversely affected. OUR INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS EXPOSE US TO VARIOUS RISKS INHERENT IN CONDUCTING BUSINESS IN INTERNATIONAL MARKETS. The majority of our sales is in international markets. In addition, a small, but growing portion of our research and development operations is outsourced to subcontractors in Ukraine. There are certain risks inherent in conducting business in international markets, including unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, export restrictions, homologation certifications, tariffs and other trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, longer payment cycles, credit-worthiness of potential customers, the impact of recessions on economies worldwide, reduced protection for intellectual property, preference for locally produced products, and potentially adverse tax consequences resulting from changes in tax laws and political instability, all of which can adversely impact the success of our international operations. There can be no assurance that one or more of such factors will not have a material adverse effect on our international operations and, consequently, on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant part of our sales is targeted towards developing countries in Africa. Some of these countries are prone to suffer from political instability and general instability conditions, affecting our ability to do business in an efficient manner or collect amounts owed to us. Such instability may have a significant impact on our performance. In addition, a part of our sales is targeted in the Former Soviet Union. Such sales do not involve the issuance of a letter of credit, and consequently, if a contract is not completed, our margins from such contracts may be lower. WE ARE SUBJECT TO ECONOMIC POLICY RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES IN THE COUNTRIES IN WHICH WE OPERATE OR PROPOSE TO OPERATE. ANY DETERIORATION OR DISRUPTION OF THE ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT AND BUSINESS CLIMATE IN THOSE COUNTRIES MAY HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OR PROSPECTS. In recent years, many of the countries in which we operate, or propose to operate, have implemented measures aimed at improving the business environment and providing a stable platform for economic development. For example, several Eastern European countries, such as Ukraine and Kazakhstan, have implemented free-market economic reforms. Others, such as South Africa, have attempted to reinforce political stability and improve economic performance after recent periods of political instability. Our business strategy was developed partly on the assumption that this modernization, restructuring and upgrading of the business climate in the developing countries will continue, and will support the creation of an additional client base in such countries. This trend will not necessarily continue, particularly in light of the recent economic downturn. 15 CERTAIN PROVISIONS OF OUR ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION AND ISRAELI LAW COULD DELAY, HINDER OR PREVENT A CHANGE IN OUR CONTROL. Our Articles of Association contain provisions which could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if that change would be beneficial to our shareholders. Specifically, our Articles of Association provide that our board of directors is divided into three classes, each serving a three-year term. In addition, certain provisions of the Israeli Companies Law of 1999, or the Companies Law, could also delay or otherwise make more difficult a change in our control. The provisions of the Companies Law relating to mergers and acquisitions are discussed in greater detail in "ITEM 10 - Additional Information". IT MAY BE DIFFICULT TO PURSUE AN ACTION IN THE U.S. OR TO ENFORCE A U.S. JUDGMENT, INCLUDING ACTIONS OR JUDGMENTS BASED UPON THE CIVIL LIABILITY PROVISIONS OF THE U.S. FEDERAL SECURITIES LAWS, AGAINST US AND OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS, OR TO ASSERT U.S. SECURITIES LAWS CLAIMS IN ISRAEL. Most of our directors and officers are not residents of the United States and most of their assets and our assets are located outside the United States. Without consent to service of process, additional procedures may be necessary to serve individuals who are not U.S. residents. Therefore, it may be difficult to serve process on those directors and officers who are not U.S. residents, in order to commence any lawsuit against them before a U.S. court, including an action based on the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities laws. An investor also may find it difficult to enforce a U.S. court judgment in an Israeli court, including a judgment based on federal securities laws. In accordance with the Israeli Law on Enforcement of Foreign Judgments, 5718-1958, and subject to certain time limitations, an Israeli court may declare a foreign civil judgment enforceable only if it finds that: o the judgment was rendered by a court which was, according to the laws of the state of the court, competent to render the judgment; o the judgment may no longer be appealed; o the obligation imposed by the judgment is enforceable according to the rules relating to the enforceability of judgments in Israel and the substance of the judgment is not contrary to public policy; and o the judgment is executory in the state in which it was given. Even if these conditions are satisfied, an Israeli court will not enforce a foreign judgment if it was given in a state whose laws do not provide for the enforcement of judgments of Israeli courts (subject to exceptional cases) or if its enforcement is likely to prejudice the sovereignty or security of the State of Israel. An Israeli court will also not declare a foreign judgment enforceable if: o the judgment was obtained by fraud; o there is a finding of lack of due process; o the judgment was rendered by a court not competent to render it according to the laws of private international law in Israel; o the judgment is in conflict with another judgment that was given in the same matter between the same parties and that is still valid; or o at the time the action was instituted in the foreign court, a suit in the same matter and between the same parties was pending before a court or tribunal in Israel. An investor may also find it difficult to bring an original action in an Israeli court to enforce liabilities based upon the U.S. federal securities laws against us, or against our directors and officers. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws and rule that Israel is not the most appropriate forum in which to bring such a claim. In addition, even if an Israeli court agrees to hear such a claim, it may determine that Israeli law, and not U.S. law, is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process. WE ARE A FOREIGN PRIVATE ISSUER AND YOU WILL RECEIVE LESS INFORMATION ABOUT US THAN YOU WOULD FROM A DOMESTIC U.S. CORPORATION. As a "foreign private issuer", we are exempt from certain rules under the Exchange Act that impose certain disclosure and procedural requirements in connection with proxy solicitations under Section 14 of the Exchange Act. In addition, our directors, executive officers and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and "short-swing" profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules thereunder with respect to their purchases and sales of our shares. In addition, we are not required to file periodic reports and financial statements with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as U.S. companies whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act. As a result, you may not be able to obtain some information relating to us as you would for a domestic U.S. corporation. 16 THERE IS A SIGNIFICANT POSSIBILITY THAT FOR THE TAX YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2008 WE WILL BE CHARACTERIZED AS A PASSIVE FOREIGN INVESTMENT COMPANY. THIS MAY HAVE AN ADVERSE TAX IMPACT TO UNITED STATES HOLDERS As more fully described in "Item 10.E - Additional Information - Taxation and Government Programs", we could be characterized, for United States federal income tax purposes, as a passive foreign investment company ("PFIC"). Such characterization could result in adverse United States tax consequences to U.S. Holders (as defined in "Item 10.E- Additional Information - Taxation and Government Programs"). Our status as a PFIC could cause, among other things, any gain recognized on the sale or disposition of our ordinary shares to be treated as ordinary income for U.S. Holders and potential adverse tax treatment of certain distributions. The determination of whether our ordinary shares constitute shares of a PFIC is made annually and is based upon the composition of our income and assets, including the income and assets of certain entities in which we hold at least a 25% interest. If either 75% of our gross income or 50% of our gross assets are considered to be "passive", this may result in us being a PFIC. The value of our gross assets will generally be determined by the average value of our ordinary shares plus our liabilities. If the standard valuation method of using the average trading value of our ordinary shares were to be used, this would result in us being a PFIC for the tax year ended December 31, 2008. Therefore, there is a significant possibility that we were a PFIC in 2008 and we may continue to be a PFIC in 2009 if the average trading value of our shares does not significantly change or the percentage of our passive assets is significantly reduced. In view of this significant possibility, U.S. Holders are urged to consult their tax advisors for guidance and should also consider making certain tax election with respect to our ordinary shares that may help to minimize adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. For a further discussion of the consequences of our possible PFIC status, please refer to "Item 10.E - Additional Information - Taxation and Government Programs". CERTAIN BENEFITS AVAILABLE TO US FROM ISRAELI GOVERNMENT PROGRAMS MAY BE DISCONTINUED OR REDUCED AT ANY TIME, WHICH WOULD LIKELY INCREASE OUR NET RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSES. We benefit from participation by the Office of the Chief Scientist of the State of Israel (the "Chief Scientist" or "OCS") in certain of our research and development projects. To be eligible for these participations, we must continue to meet certain conditions. There can be no assurance that such participations will be continued at their current levels or otherwise. The termination or reduction of the participation of the Chief Scientist in research and development projects is likely to increase our net research and development expenses or limit or terminate certain research and development projects. In addition, our royalty payment obligation towards the OCS will continue even if we receive no additional, or reduced, grants from the Chief Scientist. THE GRANTS WE HAVE RECEIVED FROM THE ISRAELI GOVERNMENT FOR CERTAIN RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENDITURES RESTRICT OUR ABILITY TO MANUFACTURE PRODUCTS AND TRANSFER TECHNOLOGIES OUTSIDE OF ISRAEL AND REQUIRE US TO SATISFY SPECIFIED CONDITIONS. IF WE FAIL TO SATISFY THESE CONDITIONS, WE MAY BE REQUIRED TO REFUND GRANTS PREVIOUSLY RECEIVED TOGETHER WITH INTEREST AND PENALTIES. Our research and development efforts have been financed, in part, through grants that we have received from the Chief Scientist. We, therefore, must comply with the requirements of the Israeli Law for the Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development, 1984 and related regulations, or the Research Law. Under the Research Law, the discretionary approval of an OCS committee is required for any transfer of technology or manufacturing of products developed with OCS funding. OCS approval is not required for the export of any products resulting from the research or development. There is no assurance that we would receive the required approvals for any proposed transfer. Such approvals, if granted, may be subject to the following additional restrictions: o we could be required to pay the OCS a portion of the consideration we receive upon any transfer of such technology to an entity that is not Israeli. Among the factors that may be taken into account by the OCS in calculating the payment amount are the scope of the support received, the royalties that were paid by us, the amount of time that elapsed between the date on which the know-how was transferred and the date on which the grants were received, as well as the sale price; and o the transfer of manufacturing rights could be conditioned upon an increase in the royalty rate and payment of increased aggregate royalties and payment of interest on the grant amount. These restrictions may impair our ability to sell our company, technology assets or to outsource manufacturing outside of Israel. The restrictions will continue to apply even after we have repaid the full amount of royalties payable for the grants. 17 POLITICAL, ECONOMIC AND MILITARY CONDITIONS IN DOMESTIC OR FOREIGN LOCATIONS, INCLUDING ISRAEL, COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS. Our corporate headquarters are located in the State of Israel. Although virtually all of our sales currently are made to customers outside Israel, we are nonetheless directly influenced by the political, economic, military and other conditions in and around Israel and in other countries in which our business is located or in which our products are sold. In addition, any major hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions or results of operations. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel may directly affect our business. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have occurred between Israel and its Arab neighbors. During the summer of 2006, Israel was engaged in an armed conflict with Hezbollah, a Lebanese Islamist Shiite militia group and political party. This conflict involved missile strikes against civilian targets in northern Israel, and negatively affected business conditions in Israel. In the winter of 2008, Israel was engaged in an armed conflict against the Hamas organization in the Gaza strip, which was intended to eliminate or significantly reduce missile attacks on Israeli towns in close and mid proximity to the Gaza strip, which have been occurring continuously since 2001. Although Israel has entered into various agreements with Egypt, Jordan and the Palestinian Authority, there has been an increase in unrest and terrorist activity, which began in September 2000 and has continued with varying levels of severity into 2009. The election in 2006 of representatives of the Hamas movement to a majority of seats in the Palestinian Legislative Council and the tension between the different Palestinian fractions may create additional unrest and uncertainty. Furthermore, several countries, principally in the Middle East, still restrict doing business with Israel and Israeli companies, and additional countries may impose restrictions on doing business with Israel and Israeli companies if hostilities in Israel increase. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel, could adversely affect our operations and product development, cause our revenues to decrease and adversely affect the share price of publicly traded companies having operations in Israel, such as us. MEMBERS OF OUR MANAGEMENT AND CERTAIN OF OUR EMPLOYEES MAY BE OBLIGATED TO PERFORM MILITARY RESERVE DUTY. Generally, all non-exempt male adult citizens and permanent residents of Israel under the age of 40 (or older, for citizens with certain occupations) are obligated to perform annual military reserve duty, usually up to a period of one month. Additionally, all such persons are subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. In the event of severe unrest or other conflict, individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. In response to increases in terrorist activity, including armed conflicts, there have been periods of significant call-ups of military reservists in recent years. Although we have operated effectively under these circumstances since we began operations, no assessment can be made as to the full impact of these requirements on our workforce or business if conditions should change, and we cannot predict the effect on us of any expansion of these obligations. WE MAY NOT BE DEEMED IN COMPLIANCE WITH NASDAQ LISTING REQUIREMENTS IN ORDER TO MAINTAIN THE LISTING OF OUR SHARES ON THE NASDAQ CAPITAL MARKET A company must continue to comply with several requirements in order to remain listed on Nasdaq. One of the requirements is that a company maintain a $1.00 minimum bid price (the "Minimum Bid Price Requirement"). Under the Nasdaq Marketplace Rules, a failure to meet the continued listing requirement for minimum bid price on the Nasdaq Capital Market shall be determined to exist only if the deficiency continues for a period of 30 consecutive business days. On March 20, 2009, Nasdaq suspended the Minimum Bid Price Requirement until July 19, 2009. On February 5, 2008, the Nasdaq Capital Market sent us a Staff Deficiency Letter, indicating that we have failed to comply with the Minimum Bid Price Requirement for continued listing set forth in Nasdaq's old Marketplace Rule 4320(e)(2)(E)(ii) (which has recently been changed to Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 5550(a)(2). The letter provided that we have until August 4, 2008 to regain compliance, i.e., that the bid price of our shares close at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days during the period ending on August 4, 2008. We did not succeed in complying with such requirement by August 4, 2008. According to a letter received from the Nasdaq Capital Market on August 7, 2008, we were not eligible for an additional 180-calendar day compliance period (since we did not meet the Nasdaq Capital Market initial listing criteria set forth in old Marketplace Rule 4310(c)) (which has recently been moved to various rules upon Nasdaq's revision of its Marketplace Rules). We requested a hearing on the determination to suspend trading in our shares before a Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel. Such hearing was scheduled for October 2, 2008 and at such time we requested to postpone it until after the Extraordinary General Meeting of our shareholders was to be held (October 16, 2008) in which our shareholders were going to be asked to authorize a reverse split of our shares which would have resulted in our share price reaching the minimum bid price requirement for continued listing. We anticipated that as a result, the scheduled hearing would be rendered unnecessary. Our request for such postponement was not granted, and further to the hearing which was held on October 2, 2008, we proceeded with the Extraordinary General Meeting of our shareholders which was eventually held on October 16, 2008. At the Extraordinary General Meeting, our shareholders authorized our management to affect a reverse stock split to such extent that will be determined by our management to be necessary to enable us to comply with the foregoing listing requirement of the Nasdaq Capital Market, however, before the final ratio of the reverse stock split was determined by our management based on the closing price of the Company's shares on the Nasdaq Capital Market on the day of the Extraordinary General Meeting, we were informed by Nasdaq that Nasdaq has extended its suspension of the rules requiring a minimum $1.00 closing bid price and a minimum market value of publicly held shares. 18 As indicated above, enforcement of these rules is scheduled to resume on July 19, 2009. There is no assurance that we will timely, or at all, comply with the foregoing Nasdaq listing requirements. If we fail to be in compliance with such Nasdaq listing requirements, our shares will be de-listed from the Nasdaq Capital Market, resulting in the loss of liquidity to our shareholders and potentially an adverse effect to the price of our shares. 