ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Associated with Our Business Investors should carefully consider the risks described below and all other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impact our business and operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our business is highly seasonal, and our financial performance depends on the results of the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. Our business is highly seasonal with sales and earnings highest in the fourth quarter. During the last three fiscal years, more than 39% of our sales and a substantial portion of our operating earnings and cash flows from operations were generated in the fourth quarter. Our results of operations depend significantly upon the holiday selling season in the fourth quarter. If we achieve less than satisfactory sales, operating earnings or cash flows from operating activities during the fourth quarter, we may not be able to compensate sufficiently for the lower sales, operating earnings, or cash flows from operating activities during the first three quarters of the fiscal year. In addition, our results may be affected by dates on which important holidays fall and the shopping patterns relating to those holidays. Our industry is highly competitive and competitive conditions may adversely affect our revenues and overall profitability. The retail industry is highly and increasingly competitive and our results of operations are sensitive to, and may be adversely affected by, competitive pricing, promotional pressures, additional competitor store openings and other factors. We compete with discount and mass merchandisers; electronic retailers; national and regional specialty chains; as well as local retailers in the geographic areas we serve. We also compete with national and local discount stores, department stores, supermarkets and warehouse clubs, as well as Internet and catalog businesses. Competition is principally based on product variety, quality and availability, price, convenience or store location, advertising and promotion, customer support and service. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources, lower merchandise acquisition costs and lower operating expenses than we do. Most of the merchandise we sell is also available from various retailers at competitive prices. Discount and mass merchandisers use aggressive pricing policies and enlarged toy-selling areas during the holiday season to build traffic for other store departments. Our business is vulnerable to demand and pricing shifts and to less than optimal selection in products such as apparel as a result of these factors. Competition in the video game market has increased in recent years as mass merchandisers have expanded and consumer electronics retailers have all experienced significant growth. The baby registry market is highly competitive, with competition based on convenience, quality and selection of merchandise offerings and functionality. Our baby registry primarily competes with the baby registries of mass merchandisers, such as Wal-Mart and Target, and other specialty format and regional retailers. Some of our competitors have been aggressively advertising and marketing their baby registries through national and television and magazine campaigns. Within the past few years, the number of multiple registries and online registries has steadily increased. These trends present consumers with more choices for their baby registry needs, and as a result, increase competition for our baby registry. If we fail to compete successfully, we could face lower sales and may decide or be compelled to offer greater discounts to our customers, which could result in decreased profitability. Our sales may be adversely affected by changes in consumer spending patterns. Many economic and other factors outside our control, including consumer confidence, consumer spending levels, employment levels, consumer debt levels and inflation, as well as the availability of consumer credit, affect consumer spending habits. A significant deterioration in the global financial markets and economic environment, recessions or an uncertain economic outlook could adversely affect consumer spending habits and can result in lower levels of economic activity. The domestic and international political situation also affects consumer confidence. Any of these events and factors could cause consumers to curtail spending and could have a negative impact on our financial performance and position in future fiscal periods. During fiscal 2008, there was significant deterioration in the global financial markets and economic environment, which negatively impacted consumer spending. In response, we have taken steps to increase opportunities to profitably drive sales and to curtail capital spending and operating expenses wherever prudent. If these adverse trends in economic conditions worsen, or if our efforts to counteract the impacts of these trends are not sufficiently effective, there would be a negative impact on our financial performance and position in future fiscal periods. 10 Table of Contents Our operations have significant liquidity and capital requirements and depend on the availability of adequate financing. We have significant liquidity and capital requirements. Among other things, the seasonality of our businesses requires us to purchase merchandise well in advance of the holiday selling season. We depend on our ability to generate cash flow from operating activities, as well as on borrowings under our revolving credit facilities, to finance the carrying costs of this inventory, to pay for capital expenditures and to maintain operations. Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s rate our unsecured debt as non-investment grade. Any adverse change to our credit ratings could negatively impact our ability to refinance our debt on satisfactory terms and could increase our financing costs. While we believe we currently have adequate sources of funds to provide for our ongoing operations and capital requirements for the next 12 months, any inability to have future access to financing, when needed, would have a negative effect on our business. We may not retain or attract customers if we fail to successfully implement our strategic initiatives. We continue to implement a series of customer-oriented strategic programs designed to differentiate and strengthen our core merchandise content and service levels and to expand and enhance our merchandise offerings. We are improving the effectiveness of our marketing and advertising programs for our “R” Us stores. The success of these and other initiatives will depend on various factors, including the implementation of our growth strategy, the appeal of our store formats, our ability to offer new products to customers, our financial condition, our ability to respond to changing consumer preferences and competitive and economic conditions. We are also continuing with plans to reduce and optimize our operating expense structure. If we fail to implement successfully some or all of our strategic initiatives, we may be unable to retain or attract customers, which could result in lower sales and a failure to realize the benefit of the expenditures incurred for these initiatives. Our sales may be adversely affected if we fail to respond to changes in consumer preferences in a timely manner. Our financial performance depends on our ability to identify, originate and define product trends, as well as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer preferences in a timely manner. Our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to change. Our business fluctuates according to changes in consumer preferences dictated in part by fashion trends, perceived value and season. These fluctuations affect the merchandise in stock since purchase orders are written well in advance of the holiday season and, at times, before fashion trends and high-demand brands are evidenced by consumer purchases. If we misjudge the market for our products, we may be faced with significant excess inventories for some products and missed opportunities for other products. Sales of video games tend to be cyclical and may result in fluctuations in our results of operations. Sales of video games, which have tended to account for 10% to 15% of our Net sales, have been cyclical in nature in response to the introduction and maturation of new technology. Following the introduction of new video game platforms, sales of these platforms and related software and accessories generally increase due to initial demand, while sales of older platforms and related products generally decrease. If video game platform manufacturers fail to develop new hardware platforms, our sales of video game products could decline, which would negatively impact our financial performance. We depend on key vendors to supply the merchandise that we sell to our customers. Our performance depends, in part, on our ability to purchase our merchandise in sufficient quantities at competitive prices. We purchase our merchandise from numerous international and domestic manufacturers and importers. We have no contractual assurances of continued supply, pricing or access to new products, and any vendor could change the terms upon which they sell to us or discontinue selling to us at any time. We may not be able to acquire desired merchandise in sufficient quantities on terms acceptable to us in the future. Better than expected sales demand may also lead to customer backorders and lower in-stock positions of our merchandise. We have approximately 3,400 vendor relationships through which we procure the merchandise that we offer to our guests. For fiscal 2008, our top 20 vendors worldwide, based on our purchase volume in dollars, represented approximately 45% of the total products we purchased. Our inability to acquire suitable merchandise on acceptable terms or the loss of one or more key vendors could have a negative effect on our business and operating results because we would be missing products that we felt were important to our assortment, unless and until alternative supply arrangements are secured. We may not be able to develop relationships with new vendors, and products from alternative sources, if any, may be of a lesser quality and/or more expensive than those from existing vendors. In addition, our vendors are subject to certain risks, including labor disputes, union organizing activities, financial liquidity, product merchantability, inclement weather, natural disasters and general economic and political conditions, that could limit our vendors’ ability to provide us with quality merchandise on a timely basis and at prices and on payment terms that are commercially acceptable. 11 Table of Contents For these or other reasons, one or more of our vendors might not adhere to our quality control standards, and we might not identify the deficiency before merchandise ships to our stores or customers. In addition, our vendors may have difficulty adjusting to our changing demands and growing business. Our vendors’ failure to manufacture or import quality merchandise in a timely and effective manner could damage our reputation and brands and could lead to an increase in customer litigation against us and an attendant increase in our routine and non-routine litigation costs. Further, any merchandise that does not meet our quality standards could become subject to a recall, which could damage our reputation and brands and harm our business. International events could delay or prevent the delivery of products to our stores. A significant portion of products sold by us are manufactured outside of the United States, primarily in Asia. As a result, any event causing a disruption of imports, including safety issues on materials, the imposition of import restrictions or trade restrictions in the form of tariffs, “antidumping” duties, port security or other events that could slow port activities, acts of war, terrorism or diseases, could increase the cost and reduce the supply of products available to us, which could, in turn, negatively affect our sales and profitability. In addition, port-labor issues, rail congestion and trucking shortages can have an impact on all direct importers. Although we attempt to anticipate and manage such situations, both our sales and profitability could be adversely impacted by any such developments in the future. Product safety issues, including product recalls, could harm our reputation, divert resources, reduce sales and increase costs. The products we sell in our stores are subject to regulation by the Consumer Product Safety Commission and similar state and international regulatory authorities. Such products could be subject to recalls and other actions by these authorities. Product safety concerns may require us to voluntarily remove selected products from our stores. Such recalls and voluntary removal of products can result in, among other things, lost sales, diverted resources and increased customer service costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. International factors could negatively affect our business. We are subject to the risks inherent in conducting our business across national boundaries, many of which are outside of our control. These risks include the following: • economic downturns; • currency exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations; • changes in governmental policy, including, among others, those relating to taxation or safety regulations; • international military, political, diplomatic and terrorist incidents; • government instability; • nationalization of assets; and • tariffs and governmental trade policies. We cannot ensure that one or more of these factors will not negatively affect our International segment and, as a result, our business and financial performance. The success of our online business depends on our ability to provide quality service to our Internet customers. Our Internet operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties which are beyond our control, including the following: • changes in consumer willingness to purchase goods via the Internet; • increases in software filters that may inhibit our ability to market our products through e-mail messages to our customers and increases in consumer privacy concerns relating to the Internet; • changes in applicable federal and state regulation, such as the Federal Trade Commission Act, the Children’s Online Privacy Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act and the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act; • breaches of Internet security; • failure of our Internet service providers to properly perform their services in a timely and efficient manner; • failures in our Internet infrastructure or the failure of systems or third parties, such as telephone or electric power service, resulting in website downtime or other problems; and • failure by us to properly and timely process on-line orders by customers, which may negatively impact future on-line and in-store purchases by such customers. 12 Table of Contents Our business exposes us to personal injury and product liability claims which could result in adverse publicity and harm to our brands and our results of operations. We are from time to time subject to claims due to the injury of an individual in our stores or on our property. In addition, we have in the past been subject to product liability claims for the products that we sell. While our purchase orders generally require the manufacturer to indemnify us against any product liability claims, there is a risk that if the manufacturer becomes insolvent we would not be indemnified. Any personal injury claim made against us or, in the event the manufacturer was insolvent, any product liability claim made against us, whether or not it has merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation expenses and damages, result in adverse publicity or damage to our reputation and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business operations could be disrupted if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately or we are unable to protect the integrity and security of our customers’ information. We depend upon our information technology systems in the conduct of our operations. If our information technology systems fail to perform as anticipated, we could experience difficulties in replenishing inventories or in delivering our products to store locations in response to consumer demands. Any of these or other systems related problems could, in turn, adversely affect our sales and profitability. Additionally, a compromise of our security systems resulting in unauthorized access to certain personal information about our customers could adversely affect our reputation with our customers and others, as well as our operations, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. In addition, a security breach could require that we expend significant additional resources related to our information security systems. If we are unable to renew or replace our current store leases or if we are unable to enter into leases for additional stores on favorable terms, or if one or more of our current leases are terminated prior to expiration of their stated term and we cannot find suitable alternate locations, our growth and profitability could be negatively impacted. We currently lease approximately 70% of our domestic and international stores. Most of our current leases provide for our unilateral option to renew for several additional rental periods at specific rental rates. Our ability to re-negotiate favorable terms on an expiring lease or to negotiate favorable terms for a suitable alternate location, and our ability to negotiate favorable lease terms for additional store locations could depend on conditions in the real estate market, competition for desirable properties and our relationships with current and prospective landlords or may depend on other factors that are not within our control. Any or all of these factors and conditions could negatively impact our growth and profitability. Our results of operations could suffer if we lose key management or are unable to attract and retain experienced senior management for our business. Our future success depends to a significant degree on the skills, experience and efforts of our senior management team. The loss of services of any of these individuals, or the inability by us to attract and retain qualified individuals for key management positions, could harm our business and financial performance. We are subject to certain regulatory and legal developments. If we fail to comply with regulatory or legal requirements, our business and financial results may be adversely affected. We are subject to numerous regulatory and legal requirements. Our policies, procedures and internal controls are designed to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including those imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, our business activities require us to comply with complex regulatory and legal issues on a local, national and worldwide basis. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations could adversely affect our operations and financial results, involve significant expense and divert management’s attention and resources from other matters, which in turn could harm our business. We may experience fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous international jurisdictions. We record tax expense based on our estimates of future tax payments, which include reserves for estimates of probable settlements of international and domestic tax audits. At any one time, many tax years are subject to audit by various taxing jurisdictions. The results of these audits and negotiations with taxing authorities may affect the ultimate settlement of these issues. As a result, we expect that throughout the year there could be ongoing variability in our quarterly tax rates as taxable events occur and exposures are re-evaluated. Further, our effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be materially impacted by changes in the mix and level of earnings by taxing jurisdiction or by changes to existing accounting rules or regulations. 13 Table of Contents Changes to accounting rules or regulations may adversely affect our results of operations. Changes to existing accounting rules or regulations may impact our future results of operations. Other new accounting rules or regulations and varying interpretations of existing accounting rules or regulations have occurred and may occur in the future. Future changes to accounting rules or regulations or the questioning of current accounting practices may adversely affect our results of operations. Our total assets include substantial amounts of property, equipment and goodwill. Changes to estimates or projections related to such assets, or operating results that are lower than our current estimates at certain store locations, may cause us to incur impairment charges. Our total assets include substantial amounts of property, equipment and goodwill. We make certain estimates and projections in connection with impairment analyses for these assets, in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 144 “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets” (“SFAS 144”) and SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” (“SFAS 142”). We also review the carrying value of these assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable in accordance with SFAS 144 or SFAS 142. We will record an impairment loss when the carrying value of the underlying asset or asset group exceeds its fair value. These calculations require us to make a number of estimates and projections of future results. If these estimates or projections change, we may be required to record additional impairment charges on certain of these assets. If these impairment charges are significant, our results of operations would be adversely affected. The Sponsors control us and may have conflicts of interest with us in the future. Investment funds or groups advised by or affiliated with the Sponsors currently indirectly control us through their ownership of 98.1% of our voting common stock. As a result, the Sponsors have control over our decisions to enter into any corporate transaction and have the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of stockholders. In addition, the Sponsors may have an interest in pursuing dispositions, acquisitions, financings or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investments, even though such transactions might involve risks to us as a company. The Sponsors may direct us to make significant changes to our business operations and strategy, including with respect to, among other things, store openings and closings, new product and service offerings, sales of real estate and other assets, employee headcount levels and initiatives to reduce costs and expenses. We cannot provide assurance that the future business operations of our company will remain broadly in line with our existing operations or that significant real estate and other assets will not be sold. The Sponsors are also in the business of making investments for their own accounts in companies, and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. One or more of the Sponsors may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as investment funds associated with or designated by the Sponsors continue to indirectly own a significant amount of the outstanding shares of our common stock, the Sponsors will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. Risks Related to Our Substantial Indebtedness Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industries, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations under the various debt instruments. We are highly leveraged. As of January 31, 2009, our total indebtedness was $5,545 million. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences, including, among others, the following: • increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; • requiring a substantial portion of cash flows from operating activities to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, and as a result, reducing our ability to use our cash flows to fund our operations and capital expenditures, capitalize on future business opportunities and expand our business and execute our strategy; • making it more difficult for us to make payments on the debt, as our business may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from operating activities to meet our debt service obligations; • exposing us to the risk of increased interest expense as certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest; • causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements and general, corporate or other purposes; and 14 Table of Contents • limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and reacting to competitive pressure and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged. We may be able to incur additional indebtedness in the future, including under our current revolving credit agreements, subject to the restrictions contained in our debt instruments. If new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may not be able to refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms. If we are unable to do so, we may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, our lenders’ financial stability, which are subject to prevailing global economic and market conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. Even if we were able to refinance or obtain additional financing, the costs of new indebtedness could be substantially higher than the costs of our existing indebtedness. As of January 31, 2009, our total indebtedness of $5,545 million, includes two facilities which we have the contractual ability and intent to extend to fiscal 2010 from August 9, 2009 for our $800 million secured real estate loan and from December 8, 2009 for our $1,300 million unsecured credit agreement. In addition, our $2.0 billion secured revolving credit facility and our multi-currency revolving credit facility expire in fiscal 2010, for which we had no outstanding borrowings at January 31, 2009. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations or we are unable to refinance our indebtedness, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. If our operating results and available cash are insufficient to meet our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions, or the proceeds from the dispositions may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. Our debt agreements contain covenants that limit our flexibility in operating our business. The agreements governing our indebtedness contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions, and may adversely affect our ability to operate our business. Among other things, these covenants limit our and our subsidiaries’ ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions with respect to our capital stock or make other restricted payments; • issue stock of subsidiaries; • make certain investments, loans or advances; • transfer and sell certain assets; • create or permit liens on assets; • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; • enter into certain transactions with our affiliates; and • amend certain documents. A breach of any of these covenants could result in default under our debt agreements, which could prompt the lenders to declare all amounts outstanding under the debt agreements to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. If the lenders under the debt agreements accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot ensure that we will have sufficient assets and funds to repay the borrowings under our debt agreements. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 15 Table of Contents 