ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to other information in this report, the following factors should be considered carefully in evaluating an investment in our securities. If any of the risks or uncertainties described in this Form 10-K actually occurs, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The risks and uncertainties described in this Form 10-K are not the only ones facing 22 Table of Contents us. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are unaware or that we currently deem immaterial may also become important factors that may harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are not able to successfully commercialize Gralise and Zipsor, our business will suffer. In October 2011, we began commercial sales of Gralise. In June 2012, we acquired Zipsor, and we began commercial promotion of Zipsor in late July 2012. As a company, we have limited experience selling and marketing pharmaceutical products. We may not be able to adequately maintain or scale the necessary sales, marketing, manufacturing, managed markets or other capabilities on our own that are required to successfully commercialize Gralise and Zipsor, and we may not enter into arrangements with other collaborative partners or other third parties to perform those functions on terms that are acceptable to us, if at all. If we enter into a collaborative co-promotion arrangement related to Gralise or Zipsor, some of the revenues we receive will depend upon the efforts of one or more third parties, which may not be successful and over which we will have little or no control. Our third-party contractors may not perform as required under their contracts with us or as expected. If our management of third-party contractors is not effective or such contractors do not perform as required or as expected, the commercial acceptance and success of Gralise and Zipsor may be limited and our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. If Santarus does not continue to successfully commercialize Glumetza in the United States, our business will suffer. Pursuant to a commercialization agreement we entered into with Santarus in 2011, Santarus is primarily responsible for the commercialization of Glumetza in the United States. In 2012, we earned $42.8 in royalties under the agreement. Our Glumetza royalty revenue depends on Santarus' commercialization efforts, which could be adversely affected by any of the following factors: •Santarus may acquire or develop alternative products; •Santarus may pursue higher-priority programs, or change the focus of its marketing programs; •Santarus may in the future choose to devote fewer resources to Glumetza; •Glumetza may fail to sustain its current level of market acceptance; •Santarus may fail to supply Glumetza 500mg from their contract manufacturers and distributors; •the outcome of our any litigation against current or future Glumetza ANDA filers; •Santarus may experience financial difficulties; and •Santarus may fail to comply with its obligations under our commercialization agreement. Any of the preceding factors could affect Santarus' commitment to the commercialization of Glumetza, which, in turn, could adversely affect our Glumetza royalty revenue. Any material reduction in our Glumetza royalties would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If generic manufacturers use litigation and regulatory means to obtain approval for generic versions of our products, our business will suffer. Under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetics Act (FDCA), the FDA can approve an Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA), for a generic version of a branded drug without the ANDA applicant undertaking the clinical testing necessary to obtain approval to market a new drug. In place of such 23 Table of Contents clinical studies, an ANDA applicant usually needs only to submit data demonstrating that its product has the same active ingredient(s) and is bioequivalent to the branded product, in addition to any data necessary to establish that any difference in strength, dosage form, inactive ingredients, or delivery mechanism does not result in different safety or efficacy profiles, as compared to the reference drug. The FDCA requires an applicant for a drug that relies, at least in part, on the patent of one of our branded drugs to notify us of their application and potential infringement of our patent rights. Upon receipt of this notice we have 45 days to bring a patent infringement suit in federal district court against the company seeking approval of a product covered by one of our patents. The discovery, trial and appeals process in such suits can take several years. If such a suit is commenced, the FDCA provides a 30-month stay on the FDA's approval of the competitor's application. Such litigation is often time-consuming and quite costly and may result in generic competition if the patents at issue are not upheld or if the generic competitor is found not to infringe such patents. If the litigation is resolved in favor of the applicant or the challenged patent expires during the 30-month stay period, the stay is lifted and the FDA may thereafter approve the application based on the standards for approval of ANDAs. We are currently involved in patent infringement litigation against filers of ANDAs to Gralise. In March 2012, we filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey against Actavis Elizabeth LLC (Actavis), and Incepta Pharmaceuticals (Incepta) for infringement of six U.S. patents listed in the Orange Book for the Gralise product. In May 2012, we filed a lawsuit in the same court against Zydus Pharmaceuticals USA (Zydus) for infringement of the same patents. Since May 2012, two additional patents have been listed in the Orange Book for Gralise (U.S. Patent Nos. 8,192,756 and 8,252,332) and have been asserted against each of the Gralise ANDA filers. The lawsuits are in response to ANDAs filed by each of Actavis, Incepta and Zydus with the FDA regarding the defendants' intent to market generic versions of 300mg and 600mg dosage strengths of Gralise prior to the expiration of the Orange Book patents, which includes U.S. Patent Nos.: 6,340,475, 6,488,962, 6,635,280, 6,723,340, 7,438,927, 7,731,989, 8,192,756 and 8,252,332. We commenced the lawsuits within the 45 days required to automatically stay, or bar, the FDA from approving the ANDAs for 30 months or until a district court decision that is adverse to the asserted patents, whichever may occur earlier. The 30-month stays expire between July 2014 and September 2014. If the litigation is still ongoing after expiration of the applicable 30-month stay, the termination of the stay could result in the introduction of one or more products generic to Gralise prior to resolution of the litigation. Our lawsuits against three other Gralise ANDA filers have been dismissed due to the withdrawal of two ANDAs and the withdrawal of the third filer's patent challenge against Gralise. Any introduction of one or more products generic to Gralise would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are also involved in patent infringement litigation against a filer of ANDAs to Glumetza. In April 2012, we filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware against Watson Laboratories, Inc.—Florida, Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Watson Pharma, Inc. (collectively, Watson) for infringement of U.S. Patent Nos. 6,488,962 and 7,780,987. The lawsuit is in response to an ANDA filed by Watson with the FDA regarding Watson's intent to market a generic version of the 1000 mg dosage strength of Glumetza prior to the expiration of the asserted patents. We commenced the lawsuit within the 45 days required to automatically stay, or bar, the FDA from approving the ANDAs for 30 months or until a district court decision that is adverse to the patents, whichever may occur earlier. Absent a court decision, the 30-month stay on the Watson ANDA is expected to expire in September 2014. On January 22, 2013, we received a paragraph IV certification from Watson advising us of the filing of ANDA for a generic version of Glumetza® 500mg and alleging that the four U.S. patents listed in the FDA's Orange Book for Glumetza 500 mg, with expiration dates in 2016, 2020 and 2021, will not be infringed by Watson's proposed product, are invalid and/or are unenforceable. We and Santarus are evaluating the paragraph IV certification. We have 45 days from the receipt of the paragraph IV certification to commence a patent infringement lawsuit against Watson 24 Table of Contents and thereby impose a 30 month stay on Watson's ANDA for 500mg Glumetza. In February 2012, we and Santarus entered into a settlement and license agreement with Lupin Pharmaceuticals to resolve patent litigation involving Glumetza we initiated in November 2009, and in January 2013 we entered into entered into a settlement and license agreement with Sun Pharma to resolve patent litigation involving Glumetza we initiated in June 2011. The agreements grant Lupin the right to begin selling a generic version of Glumetza on February 1, 2016 and Sun the right to begin selling a generic version of Glumetza on August 1, 2016 (or earlier under certain circumstances in each case). The settlement with Sun Pharma remains subject to review by the U.S. Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission. The introduction of one or more products generic to Glumetza would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. The filing of the ANDAs described above, or any other ANDA or similar application in respect to any of our products could have an adverse impact on our stock price. Moreover, if the patents covering our products were not upheld in litigation or if a generic competitor is found not to infringe these patents, the resulting generic competition would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We depend on third parties that are single source suppliers to manufacture Gralise, Zipsor and our product candidates. If these suppliers are unable to manufacture and supply Gralise, Zipsor or our product candidates, our business will suffer. Patheon is our sole supplier for Gralise pursuant to a manufacturing and supply agreement we entered into with Patheon in September 2011, and Patheon is our sole supplier of Serada. Accucaps is our sole supplier for Zipsor pursuant to a manufacturing agreement we assumed in connection with our acquisition of Zipsor from Xanodyne in June 2012. We do not have, and we do not intend to establish in the foreseeable future, internal commercial scale manufacturing capabilities. Rather, we intend to use the facilities of third parties to manufacture products for clinical trials and commercialization. Our dependence on third parties for the manufacture of our products and our product candidates may adversely affect our ability to deliver such products on a timely or competitive basis, if at all. Any failure to obtain Gralise tablets from Patheon, active pharmaceutical ingredient from suppliers, or excipient suppliers, could adversely affect our business, results of operation and financial condition. The manufacturing process for pharmaceutical products is highly regulated and regulators may shut down manufacturing facilities that they believe do not comply with regulations. We, our third-party manufacturers and our suppliers are subject to numerous regulations, including current FDA regulations governing manufacturing processes, stability testing, record keeping and quality standards. Similar regulations are in effect in other countries. Our third-party manufacturers and suppliers are independent entities who are subject to their own unique operational and financial risks which are out of our control. If we or any of these third-party manufacturers or suppliers fail to perform as required or fail to comply with the regulations of the FDA and other applicable governmental authorities, our ability to deliver our products on a timely basis or receive royalties or continue our clinical trials would be adversely affected. The manufacturing processes of our third party manufacturers and suppliers may also be found to violate the proprietary rights of others. To the extent these risks materialize and adversely affect their performance obligations to us, and we are unable to contract for a sufficient supply of required products on acceptable terms, or if we encounter delays and difficulties in our relationships with manufacturers or suppliers, our business, results of operation and financial condition would be adversely affected. 25 Table of Contents Our prior clinical trials evaluating Serada for menopausal hot flashes failed to meet all of their pre-specified primary endpoints, and we cannot be certain that this product will be approved for marketing by the FDA. The development of drug candidates is inherently difficult and uncertain and we cannot be certain that any of our product candidates will be approved for marketing or, if approved, will achieve market acceptance. Each of our three Phase 3 trials evaluating Serada for menopausal hot flashes, including our Phase 3 trial known as Breeze 3, failed to meet all of their pre-specified primary endpoints. Although the FDA has accepted for filing our NDA for Serada and has scheduled an advisory committee meeting to discuss the NDA on March 4, 2013, we cannot be certain that the New Drug Application will be approved. Clinical development is a long, expensive and uncertain process and is subject to delays and failures. Our own product candidates and those of our collaborative partners are subject to the risk that any or all of them may be found to be ineffective or unsafe, or otherwise may fail to receive necessary regulatory clearances. Positive or encouraging results of prior clinical trial are not necessarily indicative of the results obtained in later clinical trials, as was the case with the Phase 3 trial for Gralise for the management of PHN that we completed in 2007, and with the Phase 3 trials evaluating Serada for menopausal hot flashes, the last of which we completed in October 2011. In addition, data obtained from pivotal clinical trials are susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Many other factors could delay or result in termination of our clinical trials, including: •negative or inconclusive results; •patient noncompliance with the protocol; •adverse medical events or side effects among patients during the clinical trials; •FDA inspections of our clinical operations; and •actual or perceived lack of efficacy or safety of the product candidate. We are unable to predict whether any of our product candidates will receive regulatory clearances or be successfully manufactured or marketed. Further, due to the extended testing and regulatory review process required before marketing clearance can be obtained; the time frame for commercializing a product is long and uncertain. Even if these other product candidates receive regulatory clearance, our products may not achieve or maintain market acceptance. Also, both Serada and DM-1992 use the Acuform technology. If it is discovered that the Acuform technology could have adverse effects or other characteristics that indicate it is unlikely to be effective as a delivery system for drugs or therapeutics, our product development efforts and our business could be significantly harmed. Even when or if our products obtain regulatory approval, successful commercialization requires: •market acceptance; •cost-effective commercial scale production; and •reimbursement under private or governmental health plans. Any material delay or failure in the governmental approval process and/or the successful commercialization of our potential products could adversely impact our financial position and liquidity. If we are unable to successfully identify and acquire new and complementary businesses, products or technologies, our business will suffer. Our success depends on our ability to continually enhance and broaden our product offerings in response to changing customer demands, competitive pressures and technologies, and legal and 26 Table of Contents regulatory developments. An important element of our business strategy is to actively seek to acquire products or companies, and to in-license or seek co-promotion rights to products that could be sold by our sales force. Other than our contingent milestone payment obligations to Xanodyne relating to our sales of Zipsor, we have no current commitments with respect to any acquisition, in-licensing or co-promotion. We do not know if we would be able to successfully complete any acquisitions, or whether we would be able to successfully integrate any acquired business, product or technology or retain any key employees. Integrating any business, product or technology we acquire could be expensive and time consuming, disrupt our ongoing business and distract our management. If we are either unable to enhance and broaden our product offerings or unable to effectively integrate any acquired businesses, products or technologies, our business would suffer. In addition, any amortization or charges resulting from the costs of acquisitions could adversely affect our operating results. If we are unable to successfully integrate Zipsor in a cost-effective and non-disruptive manner, our business will suffer. In June 2012, we acquired Zipsor from Xanodyne. We do not have experience acquiring and integrating new products and we do not know if we will be able to successfully integrate Zipsor with our existing business. Integrating Zipsor may be expensive and time consuming, disrupt our ongoing business and distract our management and our sales force. If we are unable to integrate Zipsor effectively, our business will suffer and we will need to perform an impairment test on the related intangible asset and, if evidence of impairment exists, we would be required to take an impairment charge with respect to the asset. Such a charge could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our collaborative arrangements may give rise to disputes over commercial terms, contract interpretation and ownership of our intellectual property and may adversely affect the commercial success of our products. We currently have collaboration or license arrangements with Santarus, Covidien, Merck, Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Janssen Pharmaceutica NV, Boehringer Ingelheim, Ironwood and PharmaNova. In addition, we have in the past and may in the future enter into other collaborative arrangements, some of which have been based on less definitive agreements, such as memoranda of understanding, material transfer agreements, options or feasibility agreements. We may not execute definitive agreements formalizing these arrangements. Collaborative relationships are generally complex and may give rise to disputes regarding the relative rights, obligations and revenues of the parties, including the ownership of intellectual property and associated rights and obligations, especially when the applicable collaborative provisions have not been fully negotiated and documented. Such disputes can delay collaborative research, development or commercialization of potential products, and can lead to lengthy, expensive litigation or arbitration. The terms of collaborative arrangements may also limit or preclude us from developing products or technologies developed pursuant to such collaborations. Additionally, the collaborators under these arrangements might breach the terms of their respective agreements or fail to prevent infringement of the licensed patents by third parties. Moreover, negotiating collaborative arrangements often takes considerably longer to conclude than the parties initially anticipate, which could cause us to enter into less favorable agreement terms that delay or defer recovery of our development costs and reduce the funding available to support key programs. We may be unable to enter into future collaborative arrangements on acceptable terms, which could harm our ability to develop and commercialize our current and potential future products and technologies. Other factors relating to collaborations that may adversely affect the commercial success of our products include: •any parallel development by a collaborative partner of competitive technologies or products; 27 Table of Contents •arrangements with collaborative partners that limit or preclude us from developing products or technologies; •premature termination of a collaboration agreement; or •failure by a collaborative partner to devote sufficient resources to the development and commercial sales of products using our current and potential future products and technologies. Our collaborative arrangements do not necessarily restrict our collaborative partners from competing with us or restrict their ability to market or sell competitive products. Our current and any future collaborative partners may pursue existing or other development-stage products or alternative technologies in preference to those being developed in collaboration with us. Our collaborative partners may also terminate their collaborative relationships with us or otherwise decide not to proceed with development and commercialization of our products. If we do not obtain Orphan Drug exclusivity for Gralise in PHN, our business could suffer. In November 2010, the FDA granted Gralise Orphan Drug designation for the management of PHN based on a plausible hypothesis that Gralise is "clinically superior" to immediate release gabapentin due to the incidence of adverse events observed in Gralise clinical trials relative to the incidence of adverse events reported in the package insert for immediate release gabapentin. Generally, an Orphan-designated drug approved for marketing is eligible for seven years of regulatory exclusivity for the orphan-designated indication. If granted, Orphan Drug exclusivity for Gralise will run for seven years from January 28, 2011. However, the FDA has not granted Orphan Drug exclusivity based on the FDA's interpretation of the statute and regulations governing Orphan Drug exclusivity. In September 2012, we filed an action in federal district court for the District of Columbia against the FDA seeking an order requiring the FDA to grant Gralise Orphan Drug exclusivity for the management of PHN. We believe Gralise is entitled to Orphan Drug exclusivity as a matter of law, and the FDA's action is not consistent with the statute or FDA's regulations related to Orphan Drugs. The lawsuit seeks a determination by the court that Gralise is protected by Orphan Drug exclusivity, and an order that FDA act accordingly. If we do not secure orphan exclusivity in PHN for Gralise, the period of market exclusivity in the United States for Gralise may be reduced, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Pharmaceutical marketing is subject to substantial regulation in the United States and any failure by us or our collaborative partners to comply with applicable statutes or regulations could adversely affect our business. All marketing activities associated with Gralise, Zipsor and Glumetza, as well as marketing activities related to any other products for which we obtain regulatory approval, will be subject to numerous federal and state laws governing the marketing and promotion of pharmaceutical products. The FDA regulates post-approval promotional labeling and advertising to ensure that they conform to statutory and regulatory requirements. In addition to FDA restrictions, the marketing of prescription drugs is subject to laws and regulations prohibiting fraud and abuse under government healthcare programs. For example, the federal healthcare program anti-kickback statute prohibits giving things of value to induce the prescribing or purchase of products that are reimbursed by federal healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. In addition, federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government. Under this law, the federal government in recent years has brought claims against drug manufacturers alleging that certain marketing activities caused false claims for prescription drugs to be submitted to federal programs. Many states have similar statutes or regulations, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in some states, regardless of the payer. If we, or our collaborative partners, fail to comply with applicable FDA regulations or other laws 28 Table of Contents or regulations relating to the marketing of our products, we could be subject to criminal prosecution, civil penalties, seizure of products, injunction, and exclusion of our products from reimbursement under government programs, as well as other regulatory actions against our product candidates, our collaborative partners or us. We may incur significant liability if it is determined that we are promoting or have in the past promoted the "off-label" use of drugs. Companies may not promote drugs for "off-label" uses—that is, uses that are not described in the product's labeling and that differ from those approved by the FDA. Physicians may prescribe drug products for off-label uses, and such off-label uses are common across some medical specialties. Although the FDA and other regulatory agencies do not regulate a physician's choice of treatments, the FDCA and FDA regulations restrict communications on the subject of off-label uses of drug products by pharmaceutical companies. The Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services (OIG), the FDA, and the Department of Justice (DOJ) all actively enforce laws and regulations prohibiting promotion of off-label uses and the promotion of products for which marketing clearance has not been obtained. If the OIG or the FDA takes the position that we are or may be out of compliance with the requirements and restrictions described above, and we are investigated for or found to have improperly promoted off-label uses, we may be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies as well as criminal sanctions. In addition, management's attention could be diverted from our business operations and our reputation could be damaged. If we or our marketing partners are unable to obtain acceptable prices or adequate reimbursement for our products from third-party payers, our business will suffer. In both domestic and foreign markets, sales of our products and product candidates will depend in part on the availability of adequate reimbursement from third-party payers such as: •government health administration authorities; •private health insurers; •health maintenance organizations; •pharmacy benefit management companies; and •other healthcare-related organizations. If reimbursement is not available for our products or product candidates, demand for these products may be limited. Further, any delay in receiving approval for reimbursement from third-party payers could have an adverse effect on our future revenues. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products, including pharmaceuticals. Our products may not be considered cost effective, and adequate third-party reimbursement may be unavailable to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an acceptable return on our investment. Federal and state governments in the United States and foreign governments continue to propose and pass new legislation designed to contain or reduce the cost of healthcare. Existing regulations affecting pricing may also change before many of our product candidates are approved for marketing. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price that we receive for our products and any product that we may develop. 29 Table of Contents We may be unable to compete successfully in the pharmaceutical industry. Gabapentin is currently sold by Pfizer as Neurontin® for adjunctive therapy for epileptic seizures and for postherpetic neuralgia. Pfizer's basic U.S. patents relating to Neurontin have expired, and numerous companies have received approval to market generic versions of the immediate release product. Pfizer has also developed Lyrica® (pregabalin), which has been approved for marketing in the United States for post herpetic pain, fibromyalgia, diabetic nerve pain, for adjunctive therapy for epileptic seizures and nerve pain associated with spinal cord injury. In June 2012, GlaxoSmithKline and Xenoport, Inc. received approval to market HorizantTM (gabapentin enacarbil extended-release tablets) for the management of PHN. There are other products prescribed for or under development for PHN which are now or may become competitive with Gralise. Diclofenac, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Zipsor, is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) that is approved in the United States for the treatment of mild to moderate pain and inflammation, including the symptoms of arthritis. Both branded and generic versions of diclofenac are marketed in the U.S. Zipsor competes against other drugs that are widely used to treat mild to moderate pain in the acute setting. In addition, a number of other companies are developing NSAIDs in a variety of dosage forms for the treatment of mild to moderate pain and related indications. Other drugs are in clinical development to treat acute pain. Bristol-Myers Squibb is currently selling a sustained release formulation of metformin, Glucophage XR, that competes with Glumetza. A limited license that Bristol-Myers Squibb obtained from us under a November 2002 settlement agreement extends to certain current and internally-developed future compounds, which may increase the likelihood that we will face competition from Bristol-Myers Squibb in the future on products in addition to Glumetza. Several other companies have received FDA approval for and are selling an extended-release metformin product. There are a number other products prescribed for Type 2 diabetes that are competitive with Glumetza, and there are a number of products under development for the treatment of Type 2 diabetes that may become competitive with Glumetza in the future. Competition in the pharmaceutical industry is intense. We expect competition to increase. Competing products developed in the future may prove superior to our products. Most of our principal competitors have substantially greater financial, sales, marketing, personnel and research and development resources than we do. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property and may be liable for infringing the intellectual property of others. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our products and technologies, and to preserve our trade secrets. Our policy is to seek to protect our proprietary rights, by, among other methods, filing patent applications in the United States and foreign jurisdictions to cover certain aspects of our technology. We hold issued United States patents, and have patent applications pending in the United States. In addition, we are preparing patent applications relating to our expanding technology for filing in the United States and abroad. We have also applied for patents in numerous foreign countries. Some of those countries have granted our applications and other applications are still pending. Our pending patent applications may lack priority over others' applications or may not result in the issuance of patents. Even if issued, our patents may not be sufficiently broad to provide protection against competitors with similar technologies and may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing related products or may not provide us with competitive advantages against competing products. We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how, which are difficult to protect. We seek to protect such information, in part, through entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, collaborative partners and others before such persons or entities have access to our proprietary trade secrets and know-how. These confidentiality agreements may not be effective in 30 Table of Contents certain cases, due to, among other things, the lack of an adequate remedy for breach of an agreement or a finding that an agreement is unenforceable. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. Our ability to develop our technologies and to make commercial sales of products using our technologies also depends on not infringing others' patents or other intellectual property rights. We are not aware of any intellectual property claims against us. However, the pharmaceutical industry has experienced extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. Patents issued to third parties relating to sustained release drug formulations or particular pharmaceutical compounds could in the future be asserted against us, although we believe that we do not infringe any valid claim of any patents. If claims concerning any of our products were to arise and it was determined that these products infringe a third party's proprietary rights, we could be subject to substantial damages for past infringement or be forced to stop or delay our activities with respect to any infringing product, unless we can obtain a license, or we may have to redesign our product so that it does not infringe upon others' patent rights, which may not be possible or could require substantial funds or time. Such a license may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we, our collaborators or our licensors were able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which could give our competitors access to the same intellectual property. In addition, any public announcements related to litigation or interference proceedings initiated or threatened against us, even if such claims are without merit, could cause our stock price to decline. From time to time, we may become aware of activities by third parties that may infringe our patents. Infringement by others of our patents may reduce our market shares (if a related product is approved) and, consequently, our potential future revenues and adversely affect our patent rights if we do not take appropriate enforcement action. We may need to engage in litigation in the future to enforce any patents issued or licensed to us or to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights. For instance, in January 2013 we filed a lawsuit against Purdue Pharma for infringement of certain of our Acuform drug delivery technology patents and are engaged in litigation against Gralise and Glumetza ANDA filers. In those or other litigation matters, our issued or licensed patents may not be held valid by a court of competent jurisdiction. Whether or not the outcome of litigation is favorable to us, defending a lawsuit takes significant time, may be expensive and may divert management attention from other business concerns. We may also be required to participate in interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office for the purpose of determining the priority of inventions in connection with our patent applications or other parties' patent applications. Adverse determinations in litigation or interference proceedings could require us to seek licenses which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or subject us to significant liabilities to third parties. If we need but cannot obtain a license, we may be prevented from marketing the affected product. If we are unable to obtain or maintain regulatory approval, we will be limited in our ability to commercialize our products, and our business will suffer. The regulatory process is expensive and time consuming. Even after investing significant time and expenditures on clinical trials, we may not obtain regulatory approval of our product candidates. Data obtained from clinical trials are susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval, and the FDA may not agree with our methods of clinical data analysis or our conclusions regarding safety and/or efficacy. Significant clinical trial delays could impair our ability to commercialize our products and could allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do. In addition, changes in regulatory policy for product approval during the period of product development and regulatory agency review of each submitted new application may cause delays or rejections. Even if we receive regulatory approval, this approval may entail limitations on the indicated uses for which we can market a product. 31 Table of Contents For example, the active ingredients in the products utilizing our Acuform delivery technology that are being developed pursuant to our collaboration with Covidien include acetaminophen in combination with opiates. In connection with concerns that consumers may inadvertently take more than the recommended daily dose of acetaminophen, potentially causing liver damage, an FDA advisory committee has recommended that prescription products containing acetaminophen in combination with prescription analgesics (including opiates) should include black box warnings and/or be removed from the market. The FDA is evaluating the recommendations and has indicated that such an evaluation will take some time. The FDA is not required to accept advisory committee recommendations. Covidien's ability or willingness to develop and market the products subject to our collaboration may be adversely affected by actions of the FDA in response to the advisory committee recommendations. Further, with respect to our approved products, once regulatory approval is obtained, a marketed product and its manufacturer are subject to continual review. The discovery of previously unknown problems with a product or manufacturer may result in restrictions on the product, manufacturer or manufacturing facility, including withdrawal of the product from the market. Manufacturers of approved products are also subject to ongoing regulation and inspection, including compliance with FDA regulations governing current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP). The FDCA, the Controlled Substances Act and other federal and foreign statutes and regulations govern and influence the testing, manufacturing, packing, labeling, storing, record keeping, safety, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of our products. The failure to comply with these regulations can result in, among other things, warning letters, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, non-renewal of marketing applications or criminal prosecution. We are also required to report adverse events associated with our products to the FDA and other regulatory authorities. Unexpected or serious health or safety concerns could result in labeling changes, recalls, market withdrawals or other regulatory actions. Recalls may be issued at our discretion or at the discretion of the FDA or other empowered regulatory agencies. For example, in June 2010, we instituted a voluntary class 2 recall of 52 lots of our 500mg Glumetza product after chemical traces of 2,4,6-tribromoanisole (TBA) were found in the product bottle. We cannot be certain that the FDA will determine that we adequately addressed the matters that led to this recall or that the FDA will not seek to impose fines or sanctions against us as a result of this recall. We are subject to risks associated with NDAs submitted under Section 505(b)(2) of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. The products we develop generally are or will be submitted for approval under Section 505(b)(2) of the FDCA which was enacted as part of the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, otherwise known as the Hatch-Waxman Act. Section 505(b)(2) permits the submission of an NDA where at least some of the information required for approval comes from studies not conducted by or for the applicant and for which the applicant has not obtained a right of reference. For instance, the NDA for Gralise relies on the FDA's prior approval of Neurontin® (gabapentin), the immediate release formulation of gabapentin initially approved by the FDA. An NDA for Serada would also rely in part on the FDA's prior approval of Neurontin. For NDAs submitted under Section 505(b)(2) of the FDCA, the patent certification and related provisions of the Hatch-Waxman Act apply. In accordance with the Hatch-Waxman Act, such NDAs may be required to include certifications, known as "Paragraph IV certifications," that certify any patents listed in the FDA's Orange Book publication in respect to any product referenced in the 505(b)(2) application, are invalid, unenforceable, and/or will not be infringed by the manufacture, use, or sale of the product that is the subject of the 505(b)(2) application. Under the Hatch-Waxman Act, the holder of the NDA which the 505(b)(2) application references may file a patent infringement lawsuit after receiving notice of the Paragraph IV certification. Filing of a patent infringement lawsuit triggers a one-time automatic 30-month stay of the FDA's ability to approve the 505(b)(2) application. 32 Table of Contents Accordingly, we may invest a significant amount of time and expense in the development of one or more products only to be subject to significant delay and patent litigation before such products may be commercialized, if at all. A Section 505(b)(2) application may also not be approved until any non-patent exclusivity, such as exclusivity for obtaining approval of a new chemical entity, listed in the Orange Book for the referenced product has expired. The FDA may also require us to perform one or more additional clinical studies or measurements to support the change from the approved product. The FDA may then approve the new formulation for all or only some of the indications sought by us. The FDA may also reject our future Section 505(b)(2) submissions and require us to file such submissions under Section 501(b)(1) of the FDCA, which could be considerably more expensive and time consuming. These factors, among others, may limit our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates. If a product liability claim against us is successful, our business will suffer. Our business involves exposure to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the development and production of pharmaceutical products. We have obtained product liability insurance for clinical trials currently underway and forecasted 2013 sales of our products, but: •we may be unable to maintain product liability insurance on acceptable terms; •we may be unable to obtain product liability insurance for future trials; •we may be unable to obtain product liability insurance for future products; •we may be unable to secure increased coverage as the commercialization of the Acuform gastric retentive technology proceeds; or •our insurance may not provide adequate protection against potential liabilities. Our inability to obtain or maintain adequate insurance coverage at an acceptable cost could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of our products. Defending a lawsuit could be costly and significantly divert management's attention from conducting our business. If third parties were to bring a successful product liability claim or series of claims against us for uninsured liabilities or in excess of insured liability limits, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Our licensed patent covering the use of gabapentin to treat hot flashes associated with menopause is a method-of-use patent, which increases the risk that prescriptions for gabapentin to treat hot flashes in menopausal women could be written for, or filled with, generic gabapentin. We have an exclusive sublicense from PharmaNova, Inc. (PharmaNova) to a patent held by the University of Rochester to develop and commercialize in the United States a gabapentin product for the treatment of hot flashes associated with menopause. Because a method-of-use patent, such as the patent we have sublicensed from PharmaNova, covers only a specified use of a particular compound, not a particular composition of matter, we cannot prevent others from commercializing gabapentin for other indications for use. Accordingly, physicians can already prescribe another manufacturer's gabapentin to treat hot flashes in menopausal women, or pharmacists could in the future seek to fill future prescriptions for Serada, if any, with another manufacturer's gabapentin. Although any such "off-label" use could violate our licensed patent, effectively monitoring compliance with our licensed patent and enforcing our patent rights against individual physicians and pharmacies may be ineffective, impractical, difficult and costly. If FDA approves our NDA for Serada based on the results of our three completed Phase 3 clinical trials and we initiate commercial sales of Serada, such competition would reduce potential revenues from the sale of Serada. 33 Table of Contents Our collaborators and licensors may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights. In addition to our exclusive sublicense of the University of Rochester patent from PharmaNova, we hold an exclusive worldwide license from AAIPharma Inc. (AAIPharma) that includes rights to: (i) an issued U.S. patent with claims to the formulation of a pharmaceutical product, such as Zipsor, that consists of the formulation technology ProSorb® in combination with diclofenac; and (ii) four issued U.S. patents that expire in 2029 with claims to uses of certain diclofenac formulations (including Zipsor) for certain pain conditions. The ProSorb technology patent expires in 2019 and includes claims to the use of ProSorb to facilitate the rapid, consistent and complete absorption of diclofenac from the gastrointestinal tract. Our collaborators and licensors may not adequately maintain and protect our intellectual property rights. These third parties may have the first right to maintain or defend our intellectual property rights and, although we may have the right to assume the maintenance and defense of our intellectual property rights if these third parties do not, our ability to maintain and defend our intellectual property rights may be comprised by the acts or omissions of these third parties. We depend on clinical investigators and clinical sites to enroll patients in our clinical trials and other third parties to manage the trials and to perform related data collection and analysis, and, as a result, we may face costs and delays outside of our control. We rely on clinical investigators and clinical sites to enroll patients and other third parties to manage our trials and to perform related data collection and analysis. However, we may be unable to control the amount and timing of resources that the clinical sites that conduct the clinical testing may devote to our clinical trials. If our clinical investigators and clinical sites fail to enroll a sufficient number of patients in our clinical trials or fail to enroll them on our planned schedule, we will be unable to complete these trials or to complete them as planned, which could delay or prevent us from obtaining regulatory approvals for our product candidates. Our agreements with clinical investigators and clinical sites for clinical testing and for trial management services place substantial responsibilities on these parties, which could result in delays in, or termination of, our clinical trials if these parties fail to perform as expected. For example, if any of our clinical trial sites fail to comply with FDA-approved good clinical practices, we may be unable to use the data gathered at those sites. If these clinical investigators, clinical sites or other third parties do not carry out their contractual duties or obligations or fail to meet expected deadlines, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to their failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or for other reasons, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated, and we may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for, or successfully commercialize, our product candidates. Our success is dependent in large part upon the continued services of our Chief Executive Officer and senior management with whom we do not have employment agreements. Our success is dependent in large part upon the continued services of our President and Chief Executive Officer, James A. Schoeneck, and other members of our executive management team, and on our ability to attract and retain key management and operating personnel. We do not have agreements with Mr. Schoeneck or any of our other executive officers that provide for their continued employment with us. We may have difficulty filling open senior scientific, financial and commercial positions. Management, scientific and operating personnel are in high demand in our industry and are often subject to competing offers. The loss of the services of one or more members of management or key employees or the inability to hire additional personnel as needed could result in delays in the research, development and commercialization of our products and potential product candidates. 34 Table of Contents Our operating results may fluctuate and affect our stock price. The following factors will affect our operating results and may result in a material adverse effect on our stock price: •the degree of commercial success of Gralise, Zipsor and Glumetza; •announcements and results regarding clinical trial results and plans for our drug candidates; •filings and other regulatory actions related to our product candidates; •the outcome of our patent infringement litigation against filers of ANDAs for Gralise; •the outcome of our patent infringement litigation against filers of ANDAs for Glumetza; •the outcome of our patent infringement litigation against Purdue; •developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents, infringement allegations and litigation matters; •decisions by collaborative partners to proceed or not to proceed with subsequent phases of a collaboration or program; •adverse events related to our products, including recalls; •interruptions of manufacturing or supply, or other manufacture or supply difficulties; •variations in revenues obtained from collaborative agreements, including milestone payments, royalties, license fees and other contract revenues; and •adoption of new technologies by us or our competitors. As a result of these factors, our stock price may continue to be volatile and investors may be unable to sell their shares at a price equal to, or above, the price paid. Additionally, any significant drops in our stock price, such as the ones we experienced following the announcement of our Serada Phase 3 trial results in October 2009 and October 2011, could give rise to shareholder lawsuits, which are costly and time consuming to defend against and which may adversely affect our ability to raise capital while the suits are pending, even if the suits are ultimately resolved in our favor. We may incur operating losses in the future. To date, we have recorded revenues from license fees, product sales, royalties, collaborative research and development arrangements and feasibility studies. For the three years ended 2012, 2011 and 2010 we recorded total revenues of $90.8 million, $133.0 million and $80.8 million, respectively. Collaborative milestones and settlement fees received from Abbott Products, Janssen and Merck resulted in our generating profits of $70.7 million and $3.9 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2012, we incurred a net loss of $29.8 million. We may incur operating losses in 2013 and in future years. Any such losses may have an adverse impact on our total assets, shareholders' equity and working capital. Our existing capital resources may not be sufficient to fund our operations until such time as we may be able to consistently generate sufficient revenues to support our operations. We currently do not have any committed sources of capital. To the extent that our capital resources are insufficient to meet our future capital requirements, in order to continue our operations, we will have to raise additional funds through the sale of our equity securities, through debt financing, or from development and licensing arrangements. We may be unable to raise such additional capital on favorable terms, or at all. If we raise additional capital by selling our equity or convertible debt 35 Table of Contents securities, the issuance of such securities could result in dilution of our shareholders' equity positions. If adequate funds are not available we may have to: •significantly curtail commercialization of our marketed products or other operations; •delay, postpone or terminate clinical trials; and/or •obtain funds through entering into collaboration agreements on unattractive terms. We have implemented certain anti-takeover provisions. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and the California General Corporation Law could discourage a third party from acquiring, or make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, control of our company without approval of our board of directors. These provisions could also limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Certain provisions allow the board of directors to authorize the issuance of preferred stock with rights superior to those of the common stock. We are also subject to the provisions of Section 1203 of the California General Corporation Law which requires a fairness opinion to be provided to our shareholders in connection with their consideration of any proposed "interested party" reorganization transaction. We have adopted a shareholder rights plan, commonly known as a "poison pill". The provisions described above, our poison pill and provisions of the California General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. Increased costs associated with corporate governance compliance may significantly impact our results of operations. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance, public disclosure and compliance practices, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and NASDAQ Global Market rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours in understanding and complying with these laws, regulations and standards. As a result of this uncertainty and other factors, devoting the necessary resources to comply with evolving corporate governance and public disclosure standards has resulted in and may in the future result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention to compliance activities. We also expect these developments to increase our legal compliance and financial reporting costs. In addition, these developments may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. Moreover, we may be unable to comply with these new rules and regulations on a timely basis. These developments could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, or qualified executive officers. We are presently evaluating and monitoring regulatory developments and cannot estimate the timing or magnitude of additional costs we may incur as a result. If these costs are significant, our selling, general and administrative expenses are likely to increase. Health care reform could increase our expenses and adversely affect the commercial success of our products. In March 2010, President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Health Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act (ACA). The ACA includes numerous provisions that affect pharmaceutical companies, some of which became effective immediately and others of which will take effect over the next several years. For example, the ACA seeks to expand healthcare coverage to the uninsured through private health insurance reforms and an expansion of Medicaid. The ACA also imposes substantial costs on pharmaceutical manufacturers, such as an increase in liability for rebates paid to Medicaid, new drug discounts that 36 Table of Contents must be offered to certain enrollees in the Medicare prescription drug benefit and an annual fee imposed on all manufacturers of brand prescription drugs in the U.S. The ACA also requires increased disclosure obligations and an expansion of an existing program requiring pharmaceutical discounts to certain types of hospitals and federally subsidized clinics and contains cost-containment measures that could reduce reimbursement levels for pharmaceutical products. The ACA also includes provisions known as the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, which require manufacturers of drugs, biologics, devices and medical supplies covered under Medicare and Medicaid starting in 2013 to record any transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals and to report this data beginning in 2014 to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services for subsequent public disclosure. Similar reporting requirements have also been enacted on the state level domestically, and an increasing number of countries worldwide either have adopted or are considering similar laws requiring transparency of interactions with health care professionals. Failure to report appropriate data may result in civil or criminal fines and/or penalties. These and other aspects of the ACA, including the regulations that may be imposed in connection with the implementation of the ACA, could increase our expenses and adversely affect our ability to successfully commercialize our products and product candidates. If we are unable to satisfy regulatory requirements relating to internal controls, our stock price could suffer. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires companies to conduct a comprehensive evaluation of their internal control over financial reporting. At the end of each fiscal year, we must perform an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting, include in our annual report the results of the evaluation, and have our external auditors publicly attest to such evaluation. If material weaknesses are found in our internal controls in the future, if we fail to complete future evaluations on time, or if our external auditors cannot attest to our future evaluations, we could fail to meet our regulatory reporting requirements and be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal controls, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. Business interruptions could limit our ability to operate our business. Our operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from computer viruses, human error, natural disasters, telecommunications failures, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events. In particular, our corporate headquarters are located in the San Francisco Bay area, which has a history of seismic activity. We have not established a formal disaster recovery plan, and our back-up operations and our business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for losses that occur. A significant business interruption could result in losses or damages incurred by us and require us to cease or curtail our operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 