ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following important factors, among others, could cause our actual operating results to differ materially from those indicated or suggested by forward-looking statements made in this Form 10-K or presented elsewhere by management from time to time. The restatement of our consolidated financial statements and the matters relating to the investigations by the Audit Committee and by the Special Committee of the Board of Directors may result in additional litigation and governmental enforcement actions. On July 19, 2006, we announced that our Audit Committee had undertaken a detailed review of the revenue recognition accounting for software license and service agreement transactions entered into during fiscal 2004 and 2005. The Audit Committee notified our independent public accounting firm and engaged its own legal advisors and forensic accountants to assist it with its investigation. Also in July 2006, our Audit Committee concluded, in consultant and upon the recommendation of management in consultation with and upon the recommendation of management, that our previously issued financial statements included in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2004 and 2005 and in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the interim fiscal periods ended March 31, June 30 and September 30, 2005 and March 31, 2006, and all of our earnings releases and similar communications relating to those fiscal periods, should no longer be relied upon. We conducted a review and investigation of several accounting issues with the assistance of outside legal counsel and outside accounting specialists. The review and investigation included a review of our revenue recognition accounting for certain software license and service agreement transactions, stock option practices and related stock-based compensation expense and other accounting adjustments, including foreign tax filing errors and accounting timing adjustments. These review and investigations, and related activities, have required us to incur substantial expenses for legal, accounting, tax and other professional services, and have diverted management’s attention from our business. As a result of the review and investigation of our accounting practices, we restated previously released financial statements for 2000 through the first quarter of 2006. We also recorded cumulative effect adjustments for fiscal years 2000 through 2003, the effects of which are indicated as adjustments to our financial statements as of December 31, 2003. For more information on these matters, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. While we believe we have made appropriate judgments in our reviews and resulting restatement as presented and described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the SEC may disagree with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported the financial impact. Accordingly, there is a risk we may have to further restate our prior financial statements, amend prior filings with the SEC, or take other actions not currently contemplated. 13 Table of Contents We may also become the subject of, or otherwise required to incur legal fees and costs in connection with, private litigation, regulatory proceedings, or government enforcement actions. No assurance can be given regarding the outcomes from such activities. The resolution of these matters will be time consuming, expensive, and will distract management from the conduct of our business. Our available directors’ and officers’ liability insurance may not be sufficient to cover our legal expenses or those of persons we are obligated to indemnify. If we are subject to adverse findings in litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, the restatements of our financial results and any resulting litigation or SEC investigation could impact our relationships with customers and our ability to generate revenue. We have identified material weaknesses in our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006 that, if not remedied effectively, could result in material misstatements in our financial statements in future periods. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over our financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) or 15d-15(f) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Our management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, and identified material weaknesses. Our management also evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and, due to these material weaknesses, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of December 31, 2006. A material weakness is defined as a control deficiency, or combination of significant control deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. A control deficiency exists when the design or operation of a control does not allow management or employees, in the normal course of performing their assigned functions, to prevent or detect misstatements on a timely basis. We identified the following material weaknesses as of December 31, 2006: • inappropriate level of responsibility for contract review and approval, as well as revenue recognition decisions; • insufficient flow of documentation and information between operations and finance personnel; • inappropriate responsibility of vice president of operations in overseeing the performance of the sales force and approving contracts; • insufficient review of contracts by the operations personnel to ensure proper data entry of standard and non-standard terms; • insufficient tracking of the issuance and return of license key codes; • insufficient tracking of inventory maintained by resellers; and • insufficient processes for approving, issuing, documenting and accounting for stock option grants. For further information about these material weaknesses, please see Item 9A – “Controls and Procedures” included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Because of these material weaknesses, management concluded that, as of December 31, 2006, our internal control over financial reporting was not effective. We have implemented and continue to implement a number of remedial measures designed to address the material weaknesses identified as of December 31, 2006. If these remedial initiatives are insufficient to address the identified material weaknesses, or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control are discovered in the future, we may fail to meet our future reporting obligations on a timely basis, our financial statements may contain material misstatements, our operating results may be harmed, we may fail to meet our future reporting obligations on a timely basis, we may be subject to litigation. Any failure to address the identified material weaknesses or any additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control could also adversely affect the results of future management evaluations regarding the effectiveness of our “internal control over financial reporting” that are required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Internal control deficiencies could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. 14 Table of Contents We can give no assurance that the measures we have taken to date or any future measures we may take will remediate the material weaknesses identified or that any additional material weaknesses will not arise in the future due to a failure to implement and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting or circumvention of these controls. In addition, even if we are successful in strengthening our controls and procedures, those controls and procedures may not be adequate to prevent or identify irregularities or facilitate the fair presentation of our financial statements or our periodic reports filed with the SEC. Failure or circumvention of our internal controls and procedures could seriously harm our business. Our internal controls and procedures have been circumvented in the past and may be circumvented in the future. We are making significant changes in our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. The failure or circumvention of our controls, policies and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our financial statements have been impacted, and could be impacted again, by revenue recognition errors. We restated previously released financial statements for 2000 through the first quarter of 2006, which was in part due to revenue recognition errors in the accounting for certain software license and service agreements. Our financial statements could be adversely impacted by improper or erroneous application of revenue recognition policies and accounting rules. For instance, revenue recognition depends on, among other criteria, when: (1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; (2) delivery has occurred (generally FOB shipping point or electronic distribution); (3) the fee is deemed fixed or determinable; and (4) collection is probable. Our personnel may misrepresent an contract and consent to undocumented terms with a customer, imply delivery that has not occurred, make promises of future concessions or misrepresent a customer’s credit rating. We have implemented policies and procedures we hope will prevent and discourage such improper application of revenue recognition policies and accounting rules, but there can be no assurance that such policies will be followed. In addition, depending on when we learn of improper application of revenue recognition policies, we may have to restate our financial statements for a previously reported period, which would seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We have a history of operating losses, and we may not be profitable. We incurred operating losses in 2006 and for three of the five years ended December 31, 2005. In August 2006 we announced a strategic restructuring of our company in response to our recent losses and our renewed focus on core products and services that included a 20% reduction in workforce and the closing of two sales offices. We were profitable for the second and fourth quarters of 2006, but operating losses for the first and third quarters of 2006, caused us to incur an operating loss for 2006. As of December 31, 2006, our accumulated deficit was $22.0 million. Our ability to achieve and maintain profitability is dependent on continued revenues from new and existing customers and expense control. There can be no assurance that we will return to profitability and even if we achieve profitability, we cannot assure that we can sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If we are not current in our filings with the SEC, we will face several adverse consequences. We are not current with our financial filings and until we are current and if we are unable to remain current in our financial filings, we will not be able to have a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, covering a public offering of securities, declared effective by the SEC, and we will not be able to make offerings pursuant to existing registration statements or pursuant to certain “private placement” rules of the SEC under Regulation D, to any purchasers not qualifying as “accredited investors.” These restrictions may impair our ability to raise funds in the public markets, should we desire to do so, and to attract and retain key employees. We are reliant on fees from maintenance contracts and renewals. If we fail to retain our maintenance customers, our revenues may be adversely affected. We rely on maintenance contract renewals for a significant percentage of our revenue, as software maintenance fees have represented 40%, 41% and 41% of our total revenues in the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. While a maintenance contract on our products is mandatory for the first year after purchase, subsequent renewals of the maintenance contract are at the discretion of our customers. Accordingly, our failure to retain maintenance customers or a significant decline in the rate of maintenance contract renewals could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial position. 15 Table of Contents We rely heavily on indirect distribution channels and strategic partner relationships for the sales of our products. If these relationships are disrupted, our revenues may be adversely affected. We sell our products in part through value-added resellers, systems integrators, original equipment manufacturers and distributors, which are not under our control. Sales of our products by such channel partners represented 67%, 60% and 49% of our product revenues in years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We rely heavily on our indirect sales partners for sales of our expert operations management products to new customers. The loss of major original equipment manufacturers or resellers of our products, a significant decline in their sales, or difficulty on the part of such third-party developers or resellers in developing successful G2-based applications could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain additional qualified third-party resellers, or that third-party resellers will be able to effectively sell and implement our products. In addition, we rely on third-party resellers to provide post-sales service and support to our customers, and any deficiencies in such service and support could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial position. We depend heavily on our sales and marketing force. Our future success in the expert operations management marketplace will depend, in part, upon the productivity of our sales and marketing personnel, our ability to continue to attract, integrate, train, motivate and retain new sales and marketing personnel, and our ability to manage sales and channel partners. There can be no assurance that our investment in sales and marketing will ultimately prove to be successful. In addition, there can be no assurance that our sales and marketing personnel will be able to compete successfully against the significantly more extensive and better funded sales and marketing operations of many of our current and potential competitors. Our inability to manage our sales and marketing personnel effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, or financial position. Our quarterly operating results may vary, leading to fluctuations in trading prices for our common stock and possible liquidity problems. We have experienced, and may experience in the future, significant quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in our operating results. There can be no assurance that revenue growth or profitable operations can be attained on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Our sales cycle typically ranges from 6 to 12 months, and the cost of acquiring our software, building and deploying applications, and training users represents a significant expenditure for customers. Our relatively long sales cycle and high license fees, together with fixed short-term expenses, can cause significant variations in operating results from quarter to quarter, based on a relatively small variation in the timing of major orders. Factors such as the timing of new product introductions and upgrades and the timing of significant orders could contribute to this quarterly variability. In addition, we ship software products within a short period after receipt of an order and typically do not have a material backlog of unfilled orders of software products. Therefore, revenues from software licenses in any quarter are substantially dependent on orders booked in that quarter. Historically, a majority of each quarter’s revenues from software licenses has come from license contracts that have been executed in the final weeks of that quarter. The revenues for a quarter may include some large orders. If the timing of any of these large orders is delayed, it could result in a substantial reduction in revenues for that quarter. Our expense levels are based in part on expectations of future revenue levels. A shortfall in expected revenues could therefore result in a disproportionate decrease in our results of operations and cash flows, which may impact our ability to continue as an independent concern. Our business may suffer if we fail to remain competitive with other companies offering similar products and services. A number of companies offer products that offer rule engine capabilities or that perform certain functions of G2 for specific applications. In all of our markets, there is competition from “point solutions,” real-time and rule engine products, and internally developed software. There are commercially available software development tools that software application developers or potential customers could use to build software that has functionality similar to our products. In addition, we believe that end users in our markets are increasingly seeking application-specific products and components as well as complete solutions, rather than general software tools to develop application-specific functionality and solutions. Meeting this demand has required us to modify our sales approach. We are increasingly reliant on indirect channel partners, including original equipment manufacturers, value-added resellers, and systems integrators, to satisfy market requirements. A number of software companies offer products that compete in specific application areas addressed by these partners, such as cement kiln control, manufacturing execution systems, logistics systems, and network management, and they could be successful in supplying alternatives to products based on our software. 16 Table of Contents Companies offering competitive rule engine products include Fair Isaac, ILOG, and Computer Associates. Certain companies, such as Micromuse and Aspen Technology, sell “point solutions” that compete with operations management applications based on G2 with respect to specific applications or uses. Several companies, including ILOG, Pavilion, and System Management Arts, offer operations management products with limited real-time, expert system, or fault isolation capabilities, but at lower price points than those provided by us. Certain competitors in this category have greater financial and other resources than we do and might introduce new or improved products to compete with G2, possibly at lower prices. Many of our customers have significant investments in their existing solutions and have the resources necessary to enhance existing products and to develop future products. These customers may develop and incorporate competing technologies into their systems or may outsource responsibility for such systems to others who do not use our products. There is no assurance that we can successfully persuade development personnel within these customers’ organizations to use G2-based products that can cost-effectively compete with their internally developed products. Thus there could be a reduction in the need for our products and services that may limit our future opportunities. We believe that continued investment in research and development and sales and marketing will be required to maintain our competitive position. There can be no assurance that competitors will not develop products or provide services that are superior to our products or services or achieve greater market acceptance. Competitive pressures faced by us could force us to reduce our prices, which could result in reduced profitability. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future sources of competition or that such competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, or financial position. Our business may suffer if we fail to address the challenges associated with international operations. Our international revenues represented 49%, 53%, and 51% of our total revenues for years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. We categorize our revenues according to product shipment destination, which therefore does not necessarily reflect the ultimate country of installation. Our international operations require significant management attention and financial resources. There are certain risks inherent in our international business activities including: • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; • unexpected changes in politics and regulatory requirements; • tariffs and other trade barriers; • costs of localizing products for foreign countries; • lack of acceptance of products in foreign countries; • longer accounts receivable payment cycles; • difficulties in building and managing international operations; • tax issues, including restrictions on repatriating earnings; • weaker intellectual property protection in other countries; • economic weakness or currency related crises that may arise in different countries or geographic regions; and • the burden of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws. These factors may have a material adverse effect on our future international sales and, consequently, on our business, results of operations, cash flows, or financial position We rely heavily on revenues from our G2 and G2-based products. If demand for the G2 product declines, our revenues may be adversely affected. Substantially all of our license revenues are derived from G2, a customizable object-oriented development and deployment platform for building expert operations management systems, and from software application products based on G2 and other core technologies. Accordingly, our business and financial results are substantially dependent upon the continued customer acceptance and deployment of G2 and our other products. The timing of major G2 releases may affect the timing of purchases of our products. We have introduced several G2-based products for building applications and may develop others. We believe that market acceptance of these products will be important to our future growth. There can be no assurance that such products will achieve market acceptance or that new products will be successfully developed. 17 Table of Contents In addition, we rely on many of our distribution partners to develop G2-based products for specialized markets. Accordingly, our business and financial results are also linked to the continued successful product development by our partners and market acceptance of such G2-based products. Any decline in the demand for G2 and our other products, whether as a result of competitive products, price competition, the lack of success of our partners, technological change, the shift in customer demand toward complete solutions, or other factors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, or financial position. Our software is complex and may contain undetected errors. Such errors could cause costly delays in product introduction or require costly software design modifications. Complex software products such as those that we offer may contain unintended errors or failures commonly referred to as “bugs.” There can be no assurance that, despite significant testing by us and by current and potential customers, errors will not be found in new products after commencement of commercial shipments. Although we have not experienced material adverse effects resulting from any such errors or defects to date, there can be no assurance that errors or defects will not be discovered in the future that could cause delays in product introduction and shipments or require design modifications that could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows, or financial position. Sales of our products are highly dependent on our customers’ capital expenditure budgets. If an economic downturn causes our customers to reduce their capital expenditures, our revenues may be adversely affected. Because capital expenditures are often viewed as discretionary by organizations, sales of our products for capital budget projects are subject to general economic conditions. Future recessionary conditions in the industries that use our products may adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows, or financial position. Our business may be adversely affected if we fail to develop new products and respond to changes in technology. The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changes in end-user requirements, and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to enhance our existing products, to introduce new products and features to meet changing customer requirements and emerging industry standards, and to manage transitions from one product release to the next. We have from time to time experienced delays in introducing new products and product enhancements. There can be no assurance that we will not experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of these new products and product enhancements. There also can be no assurance that we will successfully complete the development of new or enhanced products, that we will successfully manage the transition to future versions of G2, or to successor technology, or that our future products will achieve market acceptance. In addition, the introduction of products embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards could render our existing products and products currently under development obsolete and unmarketable. From time to time, new products, capabilities, or technologies may be announced that have the potential to replace or shorten the life cycle of our existing product offerings. There can be no assurance that announcements of currently planned or other new product offerings will not cause customers to defer purchasing our existing products. Our research and development in new reasoning technologies may not lead to profitable commercialization. We developed a pre-release version of a new software reasoning platform, TrueManage, designed for handheld computing devices and targeted at application markets not currently addressed by our G2 and G2-based products. We have also prototyped a TrueManage application product called LifeVisor, a cell phone device for self-management of chronic conditions such as diabetes and obesity. Development of TrueManage and LifeVisor is complex, requiring specialized technical expertise. The targeted handheld computing markets experiences rapid advancements in related technologies and applications. Our strategy was to distribute these products, particularly LifeVisor, through other companies that have significantly larger presence and scale in the targeted markets than we do. We found that it would require significant funding to develop, launch, and build distribution channels for TrueManage and LifeVisor and have therefore suspended development. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully complete the development of TrueManage and LifeVisor in the future. Our ability to use the is technology and realize a return on this investment may be limited. Our stock price may be volatile and an investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. The market price for our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; 18 Table of Contents • developments or disputes concerning proprietary rights; • the loss of key management or technical personnel; • technological innovations or new products; • governmental regulatory action; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • general conditions in the software industry; • broad market fluctuations; and • economic conditions in the United States or abroad. The stock market has recently experienced price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations have particularly affected the market price of many software companies, often without regard to their operating performance. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional risks and expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and NASDAQ rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and management time and attention. In particular, our efforts to comply with Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our external auditors’ audit of that assessment has required the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources, and we expect our compliance efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. Additionally, if our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies, our reputation may be harmed, and we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC. Any such action could adversely affect our business and the market price of our stock. Our common stock is quoted on the Pink Sheets, which limits the liquidity and could negatively affect the value of our common stock. Our common stock is quoted on the Pink Sheets, which provides significantly less liquidity than a securities exchange, such as the New York Stock Exchange, the American Stock Exchange, or the NASDAQ Global Market. Purchasers of shares of our common stock may find it difficult to resell their shares at prices quoted in the market or at all. There is currently a limited volume of trading in our common stock, and on some days there has been no trading activity at all. We cannot predict when or whether investor interest in our common stock might lead to an increase in its market price or the development of a more active trading market or how liquid that market might become. Additionally, because our common stock is listed on the Pink Sheets, the liquidity of our common stock is impaired, not only in the number of shares that are bought and sold, but also through delays in the timing of transactions, and limited coverage by security analysts and the news media, if any, of our company. As a result, prices for shares of our common stock may be lower than might otherwise prevail if our common stock was traded on a national securities exchange, like the New York Stock Exchange, the American Stock Exchange or the NASDAQ Global Market. Because we rely heavily upon proprietary technology, our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to protect our proprietary technology or if third parties successfully assert infringement claims against us. Our success is heavily dependent upon our proprietary technology. We rely upon a combination of trade secret, contract, copyright, patent, and trademark law to protect our proprietary rights in our products and technology. We enter into confidentiality and/or license agreements with our employees, contractors, third-party resellers, and end users and limit 19 Table of Contents access to and distribution of our software, documentation, and other proprietary information. In addition, we have placed technical inhibitors in our software that prevent such software from running on unauthorized computers. However, effective patent, copyright, and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our products are distributed. There can be no assurance that the steps taken by us to protect our proprietary technology will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology by third parties, or that third parties will not be able to develop similar technology independently. In addition, there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims in the future or that such claims will not be successful. Provisions in our corporate documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change of control of the company, even if that change would be beneficial to our stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may make a change of control of the company difficult, even if it would be beneficial to our stockholders, including provisions governing the classification, nomination and removal of directors, prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, regulating the ability of our stockholders to bring matters for action before annual stockholder meetings, and the authorization given to our board of directors to issue and set the terms of preferred stock. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law would impose restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15 percent or more of our outstanding common stock. 