ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS The elimination of the OTS and transfer of the OTS’s supervisory and rulemaking functions to various federal banking agencies will change the way that the Company and Bank are regulated. As a result of changes mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act to the federal supervisory and regulatory framework for savings associations and their holding companies, both the Company and Bank will be transitioning to the jurisdiction of new primary federal regulators, which will change the way that we are regulated. Specifically, the OTS’s supervisory and rulemaking functions (except for consumer protection) relating to all federal savings associations will be transferred to the OCC, while the OTS’s supervisory and rulemaking functions relating to savings and loan holding companies and their non-depository institution subsidiaries will be transferred to the Federal Reserve. The Dodd-Frank Act generally directs the OTS’s successor agencies to implement existing OTS regulations, orders, resolutions, determinations and agreements for federal savings associations and their holding companies under the HOLA until such regulation, order, resolution, determination or agreement is modified, terminated, set aside, or otherwise superseded in accordance with applicable law by the successor agency. We expect that the transition of supervisory functions from the OTS to the OCC (with respect to the Bank) and the Federal Reserve (with respect to the Company) could alter the operations of the Company and Bank so as to be more closely aligned with the OCC’s and Federal Reserve’s respective supervision of national banks and bank holding companies. While the functions of the OTS pertaining to the Company and Bank will formally be transferred to the OCC and Federal Reserve in July 2011 (or else by January 2012 if a six-month extension is required), we may see changes in the way we are supervised and examined sooner, and may experience operational challenges in the course of transition to our new regulators. The new Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, or BCFP, may reshape the consumer financial laws through rulemaking and enforcement of unfair, deceptive or abusive practices, which may directly impact the business operations of financial institutions offering consumer financial products or services including the Bank. The BCFP has broad rulemaking authority to administer and carry out the purposes and objectives of the “Federal consumer financial laws, and to prevent evasions thereof,” with respect to all financial institutions that offer financial products and services to consumers. The BCFP is also authorized to prescribe rules applicable to any covered person or service provider identifying and prohibiting acts or practices that are “unfair, deceptive, or abusive” in connection with any transaction with a consumer for a consumer financial product or service, or the offering of a consumer financial product or service (“UDAP authority”). Given that the designated transfer date for the formal transfer of rulemaking functions from each of the various federal banking agencies in regard to the federal consumer financial laws is currently scheduled for July 21, 2011 (subject to a possible six-month extension), the potential reach of the BCFP’s broad new rulemaking powers and UDAP authority on the operations of financial institutions offering consumer financial products or services including the Bank is currently unknown. 31 Higher FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments could adversely affect our financial condition. Market developments have significantly depleted the DIF and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The FDIC Board recently approved a final rule that implements a new deposit insurance assessment system for insured depository institutions. Among other things, the new assessment structure modifies an institution’s current deposit insurance assessment base from adjusted domestic deposits to an institution’s average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity, as required by the Dodd-Frank Act. The new assessment base would be larger than the current base, however the new assessment structure includes revisions to the total base assessment rate schedule by lowering assessments rates, after adjustments, to a range between 2.5 and 45 basis points depending on an institution’s risk category, subject to progressively lower rates as the DIF reserve ratio reaches certain milestones. Importantly, the final rule retains flexibility for the FDIC Board to adopt actual rates that are higher or lower than total base assessment rates without requiring further notice-and-comment rulemaking, subject to limitations providing that: (1) the FDIC Board cannot increase or decrease rates from one quarter to the next by more than 2 basis points; and (2) cumulative increases and decreases cannot be more than 2 basis points higher or lower than the total base assessment rates. While the final rule is expected to have a positive effect on small institutions (those with less than $10 billion in assets) given that, in the aggregate, the large bulk of such institutions are expected to see a decrease in assessments, the impact of the final rule, and/or additional FDIC special assessments or other regulatory changes affecting the financial services industry could negatively affect the Company’s liquidity and financial results in future periods. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on the operations of the Company and Bank are currently unknown, given that much of the details and substance of the new laws will be determined through agency rulemaking. The Dodd-Frank Act is comprehensive financial reform legislation that significantly impacts, among other things, the provision of consumer financial products and services by all financial institutions. Implementation of the many provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will require new mandatory and discretionary rulemakings by numerous federal regulatory agencies over the next several years. Accordingly, the compliance burden and full impact on the operations and profitability of the Company and Bank with respect to the Dodd-Frank Act currently cannot be fully assessed. Based on the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and anticipated implementing regulations, however, it is highly likely that the Company and Bank, as well as all other banks or thrifts and their holding companies will be subject to significantly increased regulation and compliance obligations. Recently enacted legislation may not result in stabilization of the U.S. financial system, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and various aspects of our financial results. In recent years, the U.S. Congress and the Obama Administration have taken actions that were intended to help stabilize and provide liquidity to the financial system. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the various legislative actions taken by Congress or any governmental programs will have on the financial markets. The failure of the legislation or programs to serve their intended purposes, or the worsening of the current financial market conditions, could have a material adverse effect on our business, our financial condition, the results of our operations, our access to credit or the trading price of our common stock as well as the financial condition of our customers. It could also result in declines in our investment portfolio which could be “other-than-temporary impairments.” 32 We operate in a highly regulated environment, and changes in laws and regulations to which we are subject may adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OTS, as the current primary regulator of both the Company and the Bank, and by the FDIC as the insurer of the Bank’s deposits up to certain limits. (As noted above, both the Company and Bank will be transitioning to the jurisdiction of new primary federal regulators in July 2011 as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act.) We also belong to the FHLB System and, as a member of such system, we are subject to certain limited regulations promulgated by the FHLB of Des Moines. This regulation and supervision limits the activities in which we may engage. The purpose of regulation and supervision is primarily to protect our depositors and borrowers and, in the case of FDIC regulation, the FDIC’s insurance fund. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in the exercise of their supervisory and enforcement powers. They may, among other things, impose restrictions on the operation of a banking institution, the classification of assets by such institution and such institution’s allowance for loan losses. Regulatory and law enforcement authorities also have wide discretion and extensive enforcement powers under various consumer protection and civil rights laws, including the TILA, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act. Any change in the laws or regulations applicable to us, or in a banking regulator’s supervisory policies or examination procedures, whether by our primary federal banking regulator, the FDIC, other state or federal regulators, the U.S. Congress or the Iowa legislature, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be relied upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our local economy may affect our future growth possibilities. We are in uncertain economic times, including uncertainty with respect to financial markets that have been volatile in recent years as a result of sub-prime mortgage related issues and other matters. Unlike many larger institutions with nationwide operations, we are not able to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies and geographic locations. Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in our current market area, which is primarily located in Webster, Story, Des Moines, Dallas, Polk, and Henry Counties, Iowa. The financial crisis and recession has negatively impacted our local economy and any further downturn in our local economy may further limit funds available for deposits and may negatively affect our borrowers’ ability to repay their loans on a timely basis. If the communities in which we operate do not grow, or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable or worsen, our business may not be successful. A continued economic downturn would likely lead to a deterioration of the credit quality of our loan portfolio and reduce our level of customer deposits, which in turn would hurt our business. If the current economic conditions as a whole, or in our geographic market areas, do not improve, borrowers may be less likely to repay their loans as scheduled or at all. Moreover, the value of real estate or other collateral that may secure our loans could be adversely affected by local economic conditions. Our loan portfolio includes loans with a higher risk of loss. We originate commercial mortgage loans, including multifamily residential loans, commercial business loans, consumer loans, and residential mortgage loans primarily within our market area. We also purchase commercial mortgage loans, including multifamily residential loans, and residential mortgage loans, primarily secured by out of state properties, which entail certain risks not necessarily associated with loans the Company originates. Commercial mortgage, commercial business, and consumer loans may expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans may not be sold as easily as residential real estate. In addition, commercial real estate and commercial business loans may also involve relatively large loan balances to individual borrowers or groups of borrowers. These loans also have greater credit risk than residential real estate for the following reasons: · Commercial Mortgage Loans. Repayment is dependent upon income being generated in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service. · Commercial Loans. Repayment is generally dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower’s business. · Consumer Loans. Consumer loans (such as personal lines of credit) may or may not be collateralized with assets that provide an adequate source of repayment on the loan due to depreciation, damage, or loss. 33 Any additional downturn in the real estate market or local economy could adversely affect the value of the properties securing the loans or revenues from the borrower’s business thereby increasing the risk of non-performing loans. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. Despite recent signs of improvement in the economy, given the high percentage of our assets represented, directly or indirectly, by loans and the importance of lending to our overall business, a relapse of the economy into recessionary conditions would likely have a negative impact on our business, our ability to serve our customers and our results of operations. If the current economic environment worsens or does not improve, our loan customers may not repay their loans according to their terms and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. We therefore may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Any further downturn in the real estate market or local economy could exacerbate this risk. Material additions to our allowance for loan losses to reflect the risk of additional unpaid loans also would materially decrease our net income, and the charge-off of loans may cause us to increase the allowance. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. We rely on our loan quality reviews, our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors, in determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. The results of our operations may be adversely affected if asset valuations cause other-than-temporary impairment charges. We may be required to record future impairment charges on our investment securities if they suffer declines in value that are considered other-than-temporary. Numerous factors, including lack of liquidity for re-sales of certain investment securities, absence of reliable pricing information for investment securities, adverse changes in business climate, adverse actions by regulators, or unanticipated changes in the competitive environment could have a negative effect on the Company’s investment portfolio in future periods. If an impairment charge is significant enough, it could affect the ability of the Bank to upstream dividends to the Company, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity and its ability to pay dividends to shareholders and could also negatively impact its regulatory capital ratios and result in the Bank not being classified as “well capitalized” for regulatory purposes. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our profitability, like that of most financial institutions, depends substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on our interest-bearing liabilities. Increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. In addition, as market interest rates rise, we will have competitive pressures to increase the rates we pay on deposits, which could result in a decrease in our net interest income. We also are subject to reinvestment risk associated with changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on existing loans and securities. 34 Our earnings may be adversely impacted by an increase in interest rates because a significant portion of our interest-earning assets are long-term, fixed rate mortgage-related assets that will not reprice as long-term interest rates increase while a majority of our interest-bearing liabilities are expected to reprice as interest rates increase. Therefore, in an increasing interest rate environment, our cost of funds could increase more rapidly than the yields earned on our loan portfolio and securities portfolio. An increasing rate environment could cause a narrowing of our net interest rate spread and a decrease in our net interest income. We depend on our executive officers and key personnel to continue the implementation of our long-term business strategy and could be harmed by the loss of their services. We believe that our continued growth and future success will depend in large part upon the skills of our management team. The competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry is intense, and the loss of our key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could adversely affect our business. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing key personnel or attract additional qualified personnel. Although we have employment agreements with our president and chief executive officer as well as our executive vice president that each contain a non-compete provision, the loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers and key personnel could impair our ability to continue to develop our business strategy. In addition, because of our participation in the TARP-CPP, we are subject to standards on compensation paid to our executives imposed by the U.S. Treasury. The standards include (1) limits on compensation that exclude incentives for the Company’s Senior Executive Officers to take unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the value of the Company; (2) a provision for the recovery of any bonus, retention award, or incentive compensation paid to the Company’s Senior Executive Officers or to any of the Company’s next 20 most highly compensated employees based on certain financial statements or other criteria that are later found to be materially inaccurate; (3) a prohibition on the Company from making any payments to the Senior Executive Officers or to any of the next five most highly compensated employees for departure from the Company for any reason, except for payments for services performed or benefits accrued; (4) a prohibition on the Company’s ability to pay bonuses and certain other compensation to the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, except with respect to certain restricted stock awards or to the extent that a bonus is required by a valid employment contract; (5) a prohibition on any compensation plan that would encourage manipulation of the Company’s reported earnings for the purposes of enhancing employee compensation; (6) a requirement for the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer to provide certain certifications regarding the foregoing; (7) certain requirements with respect to the Company’s Personnel and Compensation Committee; (8) a requirement to adopt a company-wide policy regarding excessive or luxury expenditures; (9) a requirement to permit a nonbinding “say on pay” shareholder vote to be included in the Company’s proxy statement with respect to an annual meeting of stockholders; and (10) authorizing the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury to review certain compensation paid to the Company’s Senior Executive Officers and the next 20 most highly-compensated employees to determine whether any such payments were inconsistent with the purposes of the foregoing. Since these restrictions apply until the U.S. Treasury no longer holds any of the Series A Preferred Stock or the associated Warrant to purchase our common stock, we could potentially be subject to these restrictions indefinitely. These restrictions could limit our ability to attract and retain key managerial talent. Competition in our primary market area may reduce our ability to attract and retain deposits and originate loans. We operate in a competitive market for both attracting deposits, which is our primary source of funds, and originating loans. Historically, our most direct competition for savings deposits has come from credit unions, community banks, large commercial banks and thrift institutions in our primary market area. Particularly in times of extremely low or extremely high interest rates, we have faced additional significant competition for investors’ funds from brokerage firms and other firms’ short-term money market securities and corporate and government securities. Our competition for loans comes principally from mortgage brokers, commercial banks, other thrift institutions, and insurance companies. Such competition for the origination of loans may limit our future growth and earnings prospects. Competition for loan originations and deposits may limit our future growth and earnings prospects. If external funds were not available, this could adversely impact our growth and prospects. We rely on retail deposits, the amortization and prepayment of loans, the maturity and calls of investment securities, our operations and advances from the FHLB of Des Moines to fund our operations. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances as necessary, we might not be able to replace 35 such funds in the future if, among other things, our results of operations or financial condition or the results of operations or financial condition of the FHLB of Des Moines or market conditions were to change. In addition, if we fall below the FDIC’s thresholds to be considered “well capitalized” we will be unable to continue with uninterrupted access to the brokered funds markets. In addition, certain Federal Home Loan Banks have experienced lower earnings from time to time and paid out lower dividends to its members. Future problems at the Federal Home Loan Banks may impact the collateral necessary to secure borrowings and limit the borrowings extended to its member banks, require additional capital contributions by its member banks, and reduce or eliminate the dividends paid by the FHLB of Des Moines. Should this occur, we could have difficulty meeting our short term liquidity needs and the Bank’s net interest income could be affected. In addition, future problems at the Federal Home Loan Banks could also cause the value of the equity investment we have in the stock of FHLB of Des Moines to decline or become impaired. As of December 31, 2010, we held approximately $3.0 million in FHLB of Des Moines stock, representing approximately 0.67 percent of our total assets. We may not be able to raise capital in the future on acceptable terms or at all. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We anticipate our capital resources, in part as a result of the sale of the Series A Preferred Stock to the U.S. Treasury, will satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We may at some point, however, need to raise additional capital to support our continued growth. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital if needed on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to satisfy regulatory capital requirements or expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. Our Articles of Incorporation and bylaws may prevent a transaction you may favor or may limit our growth opportunities, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation, including the certificate of designations with respect to the Series A Preferred Stock, (the “Articles of Incorporation”) and bylaws and applicable provisions of Iowa and federal law and regulations may delay, inhibit or prevent an organization or person from gaining control of the Company through a tender offer, business combination, proxy contest or some other method, even though you might be in favor of the transaction. We may not be able to pay dividends in the future in accordance with past practice and our ability to increase future dividends is subject to the U.S. Treasury’s consent. Our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders is primarily dependent on the Bank’s earnings. The payment of dividends also is subject to legal and regulatory restrictions. Any payment of dividends in the future will depend, in large part, on the Bank’s earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors considered relevant by the Company’s board of directors. In addition, the agreements governing the issuance of the Series A Preferred Stock and the Warrant in connection with the TARP-CPP restrict our ability to pay dividends in certain circumstances and to increase our dividend without the U.S. Treasury’s consent. As long as there is Series A Preferred Stock outstanding, no dividends may be paid on our common stock unless all dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock have been paid in full. The Series A Preferred Stock and Common Stock Warrant issued to the U.S. Treasury in connection with the TARP-CPP will impact net income available to our common stockholders and our earnings per share. The dividends declared on our Series A Preferred Stock will reduce the net income available to common stockholders and our earnings per common share. Additionally, the Warrant to purchase our common stock issued to the U.S. Treasury in conjunction with the Series A Preferred Stock may be dilutive to our earnings per share. The Series A Preferred Stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of our business. The Series A Preferred Stock is equity and is subordinate to all of our existing and future indebtedness. Regulatory and contractual restrictions may limit or prevent us from paying dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock and our common stock, and the Series A Preferred Stock places no limitations on the amount of indebtedness that we and our subsidiaries may incur in the future. Shares of the Series A Preferred Stock are equity interests in the Company and do not constitute indebtedness. 36 As such, the Series A Preferred Stock, like our common stock, ranks junior to all indebtedness and other non-equity claims on the Company with respect to assets available to satisfy claims on the Company, including in a liquidation of the Company. Additionally, unlike indebtedness, where principal and interest would customarily be payable on specified due dates, in the case of preferred stock like the Series A Preferred Stock, as with our common stock, dividends are payable only when, as and if authorized and declared by, our Board and depend on, among other things, our results of operations, financial condition, debt service requirements, other cash needs and any other factors our Board deems relevant. In addition, as an Iowa corporation, under Iowa law we are subject to restrictions on payments of dividends out of lawfully available funds. The Series A Preferred Stock does not limit the amount of debt or other obligations we or our subsidiaries may incur in the future. Accordingly, we and our subsidiaries may incur substantial amounts of additional debt and other obligations that will rank senior to the Series A Preferred Stock or to which the Series A Preferred Stock will be structurally subordinated. There may be future sales of additional common stock or preferred stock or other dilution of our equity, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock or the Series A Preferred Stock. We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock or preferred stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities. Accordingly, the per share value of our common stock or the Series A Preferred Stock could decline as a result of sales by us of a large number of shares of common stock or preferred stock or similar securities in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock have limited voting rights. Until and unless we are in arrears on our dividend payments on the Series A Preferred Stock for six dividend periods, whether or not consecutive, the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock will have no voting rights except with respect to certain fundamental changes in the terms of the Series A Preferred Stock and certain other matters and except as may be required by Iowa law. If dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock are not paid in full for six dividend periods, whether or not consecutive, the total number of positions on the Company’s Board will automatically increase by two and the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock, acting as a class with any other parity securities having similar voting rights, will have the right to elect two individuals to serve in the new director positions. This right and the terms of such directors will end when we have paid in full all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past dividend periods. If we are unable to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock after five years, we will be required to make higher dividend payments on this stock, thereby substantially increasing our cost of capital. If we are unable to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock prior to February 15, 2014, the dividend rate will increase substantially on that date, from 5.0% per annum to 9.0% per annum. Depending on our financial condition at the time, this increase in the annual dividend rate on the Series A Preferred Stock could have a material negative effect on our liquidity, our net income available to common shareholders, and our earnings per share. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 37 