ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Many factors and uncertainties could have an effect on our financial condition, cash flow, results of operations or future performance. We are subject to various risks resulting from changing economic, political, industry, business and financial conditions. The material risk factors affecting our operations are described below. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS The market in which we participate is highly competitive and if we do not compete effectively, our operating results may be harmed by loss of market share and revenues. The telecommunications industry is highly competitive. We face intense competition from traditional telephone companies, wireless companies, cable companies and alternative voice communication providers and manufacturers of communication devices. The principal competitors for our products and services include the traditional telephone service providers, such as AT&T, Inc., CenturyLink, Inc. and Verizon Communications Inc., which provide telephone service using the public switched telephone network. Certain of these traditional providers have also added, or are planning to add, broadband telephone service services to their existing telephone and broadband offerings. We also face, or expect to face, competition from cable companies, such as Cablevision Systems Corp., Charter Communications, Inc., Comcast Corporation, Cox Communications, Inc. and Time Warner Cable (a division of Time Warner Inc.), which have added or are planning to add broadband telephone service services to their existing cable television, voice and broadband offerings. Further, wireless providers, including AT&T Mobility, Inc., Sprint Nextel Corporation, T-Mobile USA Inc., Verizon Wireless, Inc. and Clearwire Corporation, offer services that some customers may prefer over wireline-based service. In the future, as wireless companies offer more minutes at lower prices, their services may become more attractive to customers as a replacement for wireline-based service. We face competition on magicJack device sales from Apple, Samsung, Motorola and other manufacturers of smart phones, tablets and other wireless hand held devices. 11 We also compete against established alternative voice communication providers, such as Vonage, Skype and Google Voice, and may face competition from other large, well-capitalized Internet companies, such as America Online, Inc., Microsoft Corporation and Yahoo! Inc. In addition, we compete with independent broadband telephone service providers. Our future growth depends in part on our ability to effectively develop and sell additional products, services and features. We invest in the development of new products, services and features with the expectation that we will be able to effectively offer them to consumers. For example, in 2011, we launched the magicJack APP for the iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch. In 2012 we launched the magicJack APP for Android smart phones. The magicJack APP allows users to make free calls to numbers within the U.S., Canada and to all other magicJack numbers in the world. We currently allow the magicJack APP to be downloaded free of charge. We have not determined when and if we plan to charge customers for use of the magicJack APP and cannot anticipate demand for the product once we begin charging a fee for its use. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that the successful introduction of new products or services will not adversely affect sales of our current products and services. In addition, our inability to successfully commercialize additional products, services and features could have a material adverse effect on our efforts to diversify our product offerings and revenues and ultimately on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. We may face difficulty in attracting new customers, and if we fail to attract new customers, our business and results of operations may suffer. Most traditional wireline and wireless telephone service providers and cable companies are substantially larger and better capitalized than we are and have the advantage of a large existing customer base. Because most of our customers are purchasing communications services from one or more of these providers, our success is dependent upon our ability to attract customers away from their existing providers. In addition, these competitors could focus their substantial financial resources to develop competing technology that may be more attractive to potential customers than what we offer. Our competitors’ financial resources may allow them to offer services at prices below cost or even for free in order to maintain and gain market share or otherwise improve their competitive positions. Our competitors also could use their greater financial resources to offer broadband telephone service with more attractive service packages that include on-site installation and more robust customer service. In addition, because of the other services that our competitors provide, they may choose to offer broadband telephone service as part of a bundle that includes other products, such as video, high speed Internet access and wireless telephone service, which we do not offer. This bundle may enable our competitors to offer broadband telephone service at prices with which we may not be able to compete or to offer functionality that integrates broadband telephone service with their other offerings, both of which may be more desirable to consumers. Any of these competitive factors could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain customers to our products, cause us to lower our prices in order to compete and reduce our market share and revenues. We may be unable to obtain enough phone numbers in desirable area codes to meet demand, which may adversely affect our ability to attract new customers and our results of operations. Our operations are subject to varying degrees of federal and state regulation. We currently allow customers to select the area code for their desired phone number from a list of available area codes in cities throughout much of the United States. This selection may become limited if we are unable to obtain phone numbers, or a sufficient quantity of phone numbers, including certain area codes, due to exhaustion and consequent shortages of numbers in those area codes, restrictions imposed by federal or state regulatory agencies, or a lack of telephone numbers made available to us by third parties. If we are unable to provide our customers with a nationwide selection of phone numbers, or any phone numbers at all, in all geographical areas and are unable to obtain telephone numbers from another alternative source, or are required to incur significant new costs in connection with obtaining such phone numbers, our relationships with current and future customers may be damaged, causing a shortfall in expected revenue, increased customer attrition, and inability to attract new customers. As a result, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We may be unsuccessful in protecting our proprietary rights or may have to defend ourselves against claims of infringement, which could impair or significantly affect our business. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate and our competitors may independently develop technology that is similar to ours. Legal protections afford only limited protection for our technology. The laws of many countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties have in the past attempted, and may in the future attempt, to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Third parties may also design around our proprietary rights, which may render our protected products less valuable, if the design around is favorably received in the marketplace. In addition, if any of our products or the technology underlying our products is covered by third-party patents or other intellectual property rights, we could be subject to various legal actions. 12 We cannot assure you that our products do not infringe intellectual property rights held by others or that they will not in the future. VocalTec, YMax and other subsidiaries have received in the past communications from third parties relating to technologies used in their products (including, with respect to YMax, the magicJack) that have alleged violation of other intellectual property rights. In response to these communications, we have contacted these third parties to convey our good faith belief that we do not violate those parties’ rights or otherwise resolved the issues on favorable terms. We cannot assure you that we will not receive further correspondence from these parties, or not be subject to additional allegations of infringement from others. Third parties may assert infringement, misappropriation, or breach of license claims against us from time to time. Such claims could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to suspend or permanently cease the use of critical technologies or processes or the production or sale of major products. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity, misappropriation, or other claims. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. Moreover, any settlement of or adverse judgment resulting from such litigation could require us to obtain a license to continue to use the technology that is the subject of the claim, or otherwise restrict or prohibit our use of the technology. Any required licenses may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. If we attempt to design around the technology at issue or to find another provider of suitable alternative technology to permit us to continue offering applicable software or product solutions, our continued supply of software or product solutions could be disrupted or our introduction of new or enhanced software or products could be significantly delayed. We may experience delays in the deployment of new products. If we are not successful in the continued development, introduction or timely manufacture of new products, demand for our products could decrease. The development of the magicJack, magicJack Plus and magicJack APP resulted from our ability to anticipate changes in technology, industry standards and service provider service offerings, and to develop and introduce new and enhanced products and services to meet customer demand. While we have new products currently in development or beta versions, our continued ability to adapt to such changes will be a significant factor in maintaining or improving our competitive position and our prospects for growth. Factors resulting in delays in product development include: · rapid technological changes in the broadband communications industry; · federal, state and local regulations governing our products and services; · relationships with manufacturers, other carriers and service providers; and · the availability of third party technology for the development of new products. There can be no assurance that we will successfully introduce new products on a timely basis or achieve sales of new products in the future. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will have the financial and product design resources necessary to continue to successfully develop new products or to otherwise successfully respond to changing technology standards and service provider service offerings. If we fail to deploy new products on a timely basis, then our product sales will decrease, our quarterly operating results could fluctuate, and our competitive position and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. In addition, our pursuit of necessary technology may require substantial time and expense. We may need to license new technologies to respond to technological change. These licenses may not be available to us on terms that we can accept or may materially change the gross profits that we are able to obtain on our products. We may not succeed in adapting our products to new technologies as they emerge. Development and manufacturing schedules for technology products are difficult to predict, and there can be no assurance that we will achieve timely initial customer shipments of new products. The timely availability of these products in volume and their acceptance by customers are important to our future success. Any future delays, whether due to product development delays, manufacturing delays, lack of market acceptance, delays in regulatory approval, or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our products must comply with various international and domestic regulations and standards. Our products must comply with various international and domestic regulations and standards defined by regulatory agencies. If we do not comply with existing or evolving industry standards and other regulatory requirements or if we fail to obtain in a timely manner any required domestic or foreign regulatory approvals or certificates, we will not be able to sell our products where these standards or regulations apply, which may harm our business. Moreover, distribution partners or customers may require us, or we may otherwise deem it necessary or advisable, to alter our products to address actual or anticipated changes in the regulatory environment. Our inability to alter our products to address these requirements and any regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. 13 If we do not correctly anticipate demand for our products, we may not be able to secure sufficient quantities or cost-effective production of our products or we could have costly excess production or inventories. We have generally been able to increase production to meet our increasing demand. However, the demand for our products depends on many factors and is difficult to forecast. We expect that it will become more difficult to forecast demand as we introduce and support multiple products, as competition in the market for our products intensifies and as the markets for some of our products mature to the mass market category. Significant unanticipated fluctuations in demand could cause problems in our operations, such as: · If demand increases beyond what we forecast, we would have to rapidly increase production. We would depend on suppliers to provide additional volumes of components, and those suppliers might not be able to increase production rapidly enough to meet unexpected demand. · Rapid increases in production levels to meet unanticipated demand could result in higher costs for manufacturing and supply of components and other expenses. These higher costs could lower our profit margins. Further, if production is increased rapidly, manufacturing quality could decline, which may also lower our margins and reduce customer satisfaction. · If forecasted demand does not develop, we could have excess production resulting in higher inventories of finished products and components, which would use cash and could lead to write-offs of some or all of the excess inventories. Lower than forecasted demand could also result in excess manufacturing capacity or reduced manufacturing efficiencies at our facilities, which could result in lower margins. Certain aspects of our service materially differ from services offered by traditional telephone service providers, which may limit the acceptance of our services by mainstream consumers and our potential for growth. Certain aspects of our service are not the same as traditional telephone service, which may limit the acceptance of our services by mainstream consumers and our potential for growth. Our growth is dependent on the adoption of our services by mainstream customers, and so these differences are becoming increasingly important. For example: · our E911 and emergency calling services differ, in significant respects, from the 911 service associated with traditional wireline and wireless telephone providers; · our customers may at times experience lower call quality than they are used to from traditional wireline telephone companies, including static, echoes and delays in transmissions; · our customers may at times experience higher dropped-call rates than they are used to from traditional wireline telephone companies; · customers who obtain new phone numbers from us do not appear in the phone book and their phone numbers are not available through directory assistance services offered by traditional telephone companies; · our customers cannot accept collect calls; · our customers cannot reach certain telephone numbers; and · in the event of a power loss or Internet access interruption experienced by a customer, our service may be interrupted. If customers do not accept the differences between our service and traditional telephone service, they may choose to remain with their current telephone service provider or may choose to return to service provided by traditional telephone companies, and customer demand for services will decrease. 14 Our emergency and E911 calling services are different from those offered by traditional wireline telephone companies and may expose us to significant liability. While we do not believe we are today subject to regulatory requirements to provide such capability, we provide our customers with emergency calling services/E911 calling services that significantly differ from the emergency calling services offered by traditional wireline telephone companies. Those differences may cause significant delays, or even failures, in callers’ receipt of the emergency assistance they need. Traditional wireline telephone companies route emergency calls over a dedicated infrastructure directly to an emergency services dispatcher at the public safety answering point, or PSAP, in the caller’s area. Generally, the dispatcher automatically receives the caller’s phone number and actual location information. The only location information that our E911 service can transmit to a dispatcher at a PSAP is the information that our customers have registered with us. A customer’s registered location may be different from the customer’s actual location at the time of the call because customers can use their magicJack, magicJack PLUS or magicJack APP device to make calls almost anywhere a broadband connection is available. Significant delays may occur in a customer updating its registered location information, and in applicable databases being updated and new routing implemented once a customer has provided new information. If our customers encounter delays when making emergency services calls and any inability to route emergency calls properly, or of the answering point to automatically recognize the caller’s location or telephone number, such delays can have devastating consequences. Customers may, in the future, attempt to hold us responsible for any loss, damage, personal injury or death suffered as a result. Traditional phone companies also may be unable to provide the precise location or the caller’s telephone number when their customers place emergency calls. However, traditional phone companies are covered by federal legislation exempting them from liability for failures of emergency calling services, and we are not afforded such protection. In addition, we have lost, and may in the future lose, existing and prospective customers because of the limitations inherent in our emergency calling services. Additionally, service interruptions from our third-party providers could cause failures in our customers’ access to E911 services. Finally, we may decide not to offer customers E911 services at all. Any of these factors could cause us to lose revenues, incur greater expenses or cause our reputation or financial results to suffer. We may decide to end our emergency and E911 calling services in the future, which may affect our revenues and expose us to significant liability. Although we currently make available emergency and E911 services to users, we do not believe that we are required by regulations to do so. We may, in the future, decide to discontinue providing such services. Discontinuing such services may adversely affect customer demand, may result in fines by the FCC and may affect our revenues. In addition, customers who fail to reach emergency services may, in the future, attempt to hold us responsible for any loss, damage, personal injury or death suffered as a result. If our services are not commercially accepted by our customers, our prospects for growth will suffer. Our success in deriving a substantial amount of revenues from our broadband telephone service offering sold to consumers and businesses relies on the commercial acceptance of our offering from consumers and business. Although we are currently selling our services to a number of customers, we cannot be certain that future customers will find our services attractive. If customer demand for our services does not develop or develops more slowly than anticipated, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, results from operations and financial condition. In addition, we intend to derive a substantial amount of revenue from pay-per-click online advertisers and click-to-buy online retailers. Our success relies on the commercial acceptance of our offering from these advertisers and retailers. We are not currently selling our advertising and retailing services and we cannot be certain future online advertisers and retailers will find our services attractive. If demand for these services does not develop or develops more slowly than anticipated, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to retain our existing customers, our revenue and results of operations would be adversely affected. We offer services pursuant to a software access right agreement that is generally one year in duration and allows our customers to gain access to our servers for telephone calls. Our customers may not have an obligation to renew their software access rights after their initial term period expires, and these software access rights may not be renewed on the same or on more profitable terms. As a result, our ability to grow depends in part on software access right renewals. We may not be able to accurately predict future trends in customer renewals, and our customers’ access right renewal rates may decline or fluctuate because of several factors, including their satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our services, the prices of our services, the prices of comparable services offered by our competitors or reductions in our customers’ spending levels. If our customers do not renew their access rights for our services, renew on less favorable terms, or do not purchase additional functionality, our revenue may grow more slowly than expected or decline, and our profitability and gross margins may be harmed. 15 The success of our business is dependent on cost-effective marketing and our growth may be affected by increased media advertising costs. A major portion of our revenue growth is attributable to our media advertising, including television advertising and banner advertisements on websites. If advertising rates, which we do not control, are substantially increased by television stations or by other media and we are unable to utilize alternative advertising methods, such increases will have an adverse effect on our business, results from operations and financial condition. Additionally, if advertisers using web-based banner advertising targeted towards our magicJack APP users do not achieve the results they desire or expect and cancel their advertising, our revenues and results of operations may be adversely affected. Failure to establish and expand strategic alliances could prevent us from executing our business model and adversely affect our growth. Our success depends on our continued ability to develop strategic relationships with leaders in the retail, telephony, online advertising and online retail industry segments. These relationships enable us to expand our services and products to a larger number of customers; develop and deploy new services and products; enhance the magicJack brand; and generate additional revenue. We may not be able to establish relationships with key participants in the telephony, retail, online advertising and online retail industry segments. Once we have established strategic relationships, we depend on our partner’s ability to generate increased acceptance and use of our services and products. If we lose any of these strategic relationships or if we fail to establish additional relationships, or if strategic relationships fail to benefit us as expected, we may not be able to execute our business plan and our business will suffer. The market for our services and products is characterized by rapidly changing technology and our success will depend on our ability to enhance our existing service and product offerings and to introduce new services and products on a timely and cost effective basis. The market for our services and products is characterized by rapidly changing enabling technology, frequent enhancements and evolving industry standards. Our continued success depends on our ability to accurately anticipate the evolution of new products and technologies and to enhance our existing products and services. Historically, several factors have deterred consumers and businesses from using voice over broadband service, including security concerns, inconsistent quality of service, increasing broadband traffic and incompatible software products. If we are unable to continue to address those concerns and foster greater consumer demand for our products and services, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. Our success also depends on our ability to develop and introduce innovative new services and products that gain market acceptance. We may not be successful in selecting, developing, manufacturing and marketing new products and services or enhancing existing products and services on a timely basis. We may experience difficulties with software development, industry standards, design or marketing that could delay or prevent our development, introduction or implementation of new services and enhancements. The introduction of new services by competitors, the emergence of new industry standards or the development of entirely new technologies to replace existing service offerings could render our existing or future services obsolete. If our services become obsolete due to wide-spread adoption of alternative connectivity technologies, our ability to generate revenue may be impaired. In addition, any new markets into which we attempt to sell our services, including new countries or regions, may not be receptive. If we are unable to successfully develop or acquire new services, enhance our existing services to anticipate and meet customer preferences or sell our services into new markets, our revenue and results of operations would be adversely affected. Increases in credit card processing fees and high chargeback costs would increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our results of operations, and an adverse change in, or the termination of, our relationship with any major credit card company would have a severe, negative impact on our business. A significant number of our customers purchase our products through our website and pay for our products and services using credit or debit cards. The major credit card companies or the issuing banks may increase the fees that they charge for transactions using their cards. An increase in those fees would require us to either increase the prices we charge for our products, or suffer a negative impact on our profitability, either of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have potential liability for chargebacks associated with the transactions we process, or are processed on our behalf by merchants selling our products. If a customer returns his or her magicJack products at any time, or claims that our product was purchased fraudulently, the returned product is “charged back” to us or our bank, as applicable. If we or our sponsoring banks are unable to collect the chargeback from the merchant’s account, or, if the merchant refuses or is financially unable, due to bankruptcy or other reasons, to reimburse the merchant’s bank for the chargeback, we bear the loss for the amount of the refund paid. 16 We are vulnerable to credit fraud, as we sell our magicJack products directly to customers through our website. Card fraud occurs when a customer uses a stolen card (or a stolen card number in a card-not-present-transaction) to purchase merchandise or services. In a traditional card-present transaction, if the merchant swipes the card, receives authorization for the transaction from the card issuing bank and verifies the signature on the back of the card against the paper receipt signed by the customer, the card issuing bank remains liable for any loss. In a fraudulent card-not-present transaction, even if the merchant or we receive authorization for the transaction, we or the merchant are liable for any loss arising from the transaction. Because sales made directly from our website are card-not-present transactions, we are more vulnerable to customer fraud. We are also subject to acts of consumer fraud by customers that purchase our products and services and subsequently claim that such purchases were not made. In addition, as a result of high chargeback rates or other reasons beyond our control, the credit card companies or issuing bank may terminate their relationship with us, and there are no assurances that we will be able to enter into a new credit card processing agreement on similar terms, if at all. Upon a termination, if our credit card processor does not assist us in transitioning our business to another credit card processor, or if we were not able to obtain a new credit card processor, the negative impact on our liquidity likely would be significant. The credit card processor may also prohibit us from billing discounts annually or for any other reason. Any increases in our credit card fees could adversely affect our results of operations, particularly if we elect not to raise our service rates to offset the increase. The termination of our ability to process payments on any major credit or debit card, due to high chargebacks or otherwise, would significantly impair our ability to operate our business. We have experienced rapid growth in recent periods. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to maintain high levels of service or address competitive challenges adequately. We sell a significant number of magicJack product line units and significantly increased the number of customers using our products and services. These increases have placed, and our anticipated sales will continue to place, a significant strain on our resources. As a result of these sales, we may have to implement new operational and financial systems and procedures and controls, to expand, train and manage our employee base, and to maintain close coordination among our technical, marketing, support and finance staffs. We must also continue to attract, retain, and integrate personnel in all aspects of operations. To the extent we acquire new businesses, we must also assimilate new operations, technologies and personnel. We may be unable to manage our expenses effectively in the future, which may negatively impact our gross profit or operating expenses in any particular quarter. Flaws in our technology and systems could cause delays or interruptions of service, damage our reputation, cause us to lose customers and limit our growth. Our service may be disrupted by problems with our technology and systems, such as malfunctions in our software or other facilities and overloading of our servers. Our customers may experience interruptions in the future as a result of these types of problems. Interruptions may in the future cause us to lose customers, which could adversely affect our revenue and profitability. In addition, because our systems and our customers’ ability to use our services are Internet-dependent, our services may be subject to “hacker attacks” from the Internet, which could have a significant impact on our systems and services. If service interruptions adversely affect the perceived reliability of our service, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining customers and our brand reputation and growth may suffer. Material defects or errors in the software we use to deliver our services could harm our reputation, result in significant costs to us and impair our ability to sell our services. The software applications underlying our products and services, or the products and services sold by our subsidiaries, are inherently complex and may contain material defects or errors, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. We have from time to time found defects in our services, and new errors in our existing services may be detected in the future. Any defects that cause interruptions to the availability of our services could result in: · a reduction in sales or delay in market acceptance of our services; · product returns, repairs, replacements or sales credits or refunds to our customers; · loss of existing customers and difficulty in attracting new customers; · uncollectible accounts receivable and delays in collecting accounts receivable; · legal actions by our customers or, with respect to VocalTec and VocalTec Communications LLC (“VocalTec US”, formerly known as Stratus Telecommunications, LLC) products, by our customers’ end users; · loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products; 17 · diversion of development resources; · harm to our reputation; and · increased insurance costs. After the release of our services, defects or errors may also be identified from time to time by our internal team and by our customers. There can be no assurance that, despite testing, errors will not be found in our products after commencement of commercial deployment. The costs incurred in correcting any material defects or errors in our services may be substantial and could harm our operating results. We may in the future incur costs associated with support services. Moreover, as our solutions grow in complexity, this risk may intensify over time and may result in increased expenses. Customers may bundle, incorporate or connect our telecommunication hardware and software products into or to complex systems that contain errors or defects that may be unrelated to our products. As a result, when our customers encounter problems, it may be difficult to identify the product that caused the problem. In addition, such occurrences may result in undue delays or cancellations of the implementation of our customers’ bundled products and services. In such cases, our reputation could be harmed and our results of operations could be adversely affected, which could result in reduced revenues or increased expenses. Our ability to provide our service is dependent upon third-party facilities and equipment, the failure of which could cause delays or interruptions of our service, damage our reputation, cause us to lose customers and limit our growth. Our success depends on our ability to provide quality and reliable service, which is in part dependent upon the proper functioning of facilities and equipment owned and operated by third parties and is, therefore, beyond our control. Unlike traditional wireline telephone service or wireless service, our service requires our customers to have an operative broadband Internet connection and an electrical power supply, which are provided by the customer’s Internet service provider and electric utility company, respectively, and not by us. The quality of some broadband Internet connections in certain geographic areas may be too poor for customers to use our services properly. Our future growth could be limited if broadband connections are not, or do not, become widely available in markets that we target. In addition, if there is any interruption to a customer’s broadband Internet service or electrical power supply, that customer will be unable to make or receive calls, including emergency calls, using our service. Our customers may experience such interruptions in the future. In addition, our E911 service is currently and will remain dependent upon one or more third-party providers. Interruptions in service from these vendors could cause failures in our customers’ access to E911 services. If service interruptions adversely affect the perceived reliability of our service, we may have difficulty attracting new customers and our brand, reputation and growth will be negatively impacted. We depend on overseas manufacturers, and for certain products, third-party suppliers, and our reputation and results of operations would be harmed if these manufacturers or suppliers fail to meet our requirements. The manufacture of the magicJack and magicJack PLUS is conducted by a manufacturing company in China, and certain parts are produced in Taiwan and Hong Kong. These manufacturers supply substantially all of the raw materials and provide all facilities and labor required to manufacture our products. If these companies were to terminate their arrangements with us or fail to provide the required capacity and quality on a timely basis, either due to actions of the manufacturers; earthquake, fire, flood, or other natural disaster; or the actions of their respective governments, we would be unable to manufacture our products until replacement contract manufacturing services could be obtained. To qualify a new contract manufacturer, familiarize it with our products, quality standards and other requirements, and commence volume production is a costly and time-consuming process. We cannot assure you that we would be able to establish alternative manufacturing relationships on acceptable terms or in a timely manner that would not cause disruptions in our supply. Our reliance on these contract manufacturers involves certain risks, including the following: · lack of direct control over production capacity and delivery schedules; · lack of direct control over quality assurance, manufacturing yields and production costs; · risk of loss of inventory while in transit from China, Hong Kong or Taiwan; · the risk of currency fluctuation; and · risks associated with international commerce, including unexpected changes in legal and regulatory requirements, changes in tariffs and trade policies, risks associated with the protection of intellectual property, political and economic instability and natural disasters, such as earthquakes, typhoons or tsunamis. 18 Any interruption in the manufacture of our products would be likely to result in delays in shipment, lost sales and revenue and damage to our reputation in the market, all of which would harm our business and results of operations. In addition, while our contract obligations with our contract manufacturer in China is denominated in U.S. dollars, changes in currency exchange rates could impact our suppliers and increase our prices. We rely on independent retailers to sell the magicJack and magicJack PLUS, and disruption to these channels would harm our business. Because we sell a majority of our magicJack, magicJack PLUS, other devices and certain services to independent retailers, we are subject to many risks, including risks related to their inventory levels and support for our products. In particular, our retailers maintain significant levels of our products in their inventories. If retailers attempt to reduce their levels of inventory or if they do not maintain sufficient levels to meet customer demand, our sales could be negatively impacted. Many of our retailers also sell products offered by our competitors. If our competitors offer our retailers more favorable terms, those retailers may de-emphasize or decline to carry our products. In the future, we may not be able to retain or attract a sufficient number of qualified retailers. If we are unable to maintain successful relationships with retailers or to expand our distribution channels, our business will suffer. To continue this method of sales, we will have to allocate resources to train vendors, systems integrators and business partners as to the use of our products, resulting in additional costs and additional time until sales by such vendors, systems integrators and business partners are made feasible. Our business depends to a certain extent upon the success of such channels and the broad market acceptance of their products. To the extent that our channels are unsuccessful in selling their products, and as a result, our products, our revenues and operating results will be adversely affected. Many factors out of our control could interfere with our ability to market, license, implement or support our products with any of our channels, which in turn could harm our business. These factors include, but are not limited to, a change in the business strategy of our channels, the introduction of competitive product offerings by other companies that are sold through one or more of our channels, potential contract defaults by one or more of our channels or changes in ownership or management of one or more of our channels. Some of our competitors may have stronger relationships with our channels than we do or offer more favorable terms with respect to their products, and we have limited control, if any, as to whether those channels implement our products rather than our competitors’ products or whether they devote resources to market and support our competitors’ products rather than our offerings. If we fail to maintain relationships with these channels, fail to develop new channels, fail to effectively manage, train, or provide incentives to existing channels or if these channels are not successful in their sales efforts, sales of our products may decrease and our operating results would suffer. We may not be able to maintain adequate customer care during periods of growth or in connection with our addition of new and complex devices or features, which could adversely affect our ability to grow and cause our financial results to be negatively impacted. We consider our customer care to be critically important to acquiring and retaining customers. A portion of our customer care is provided by third parties located in the Philippines. This approach exposes us to the risk that we may not maintain service quality, control or effective management within these business operations. The increased elements of risk that arise from conducting certain operating processes in some jurisdictions could lead to an increase in reputational risk. Interruptions in our customer care caused by disruptions at our third-party facilities may cause us to lose customers, which could adversely affect our revenue and profitability. If our customer base expands rapidly, we may not be able to expand our outsourced customer care operations quickly enough to meet the needs of our customer base, and the quality of our customer care will suffer and our access right renewal rate may decrease. As we broaden our magicJack offerings and our customers build increasingly complex home networking environments, we will face additional challenges in training our customer care staff. We could face a high turnover rate among our customer service providers. We intend to have our customer care provider hire and train customer care representatives in order to meet the needs of our growing customer base. If they are unable to hire, train and retain sufficient personnel to provide adequate customer care, we may experience slower growth, increased costs and higher levels of customer attrition, which would adversely affect our business and results of operations. 19 If we are unable to maintain an effective process for local number portability provisioning, our growth may be negatively impacted. We comply with requests for local number portability from our customers at the end of the 30-day trial period. Local number portability means that our customers can retain their existing telephone numbers when subscribing to our services, and would in turn allow former customers of ours to retain their telephone numbers should they subscribe to another carrier. For our customers, transferring a telephone number from a traditional landline to our service may take several business days. By comparison, transferring wireless telephone numbers among wireless service providers generally takes several hours. Regulatory requirements that went into effect January 31, 2011 may require us to complete this process within one business day. If we are unable to maintain the technology to expedite porting our customers' numbers, demand for our services may be reduced, we may be subject to regulatory enforcement activity, and this will adversely affect our revenue and profitability. Because much of our potential success and value lies in our use of internally developed hardware, systems and software, our failure to protect the intellectual property associated with them could negatively affect us. Additionally, other parties may have the right to use intellectual property important to our business. Our ability to compete effectively is dependent in large part upon the maintenance and protection of systems and software that we have developed internally. While we have several pending intellectual property right applications for future service offerings, we cannot patent all of the technology that is important to our business. In addition, our pending intellectual property right applications may not be successful. We will rely on copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements, to establish and protect our rights to this technology. It may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use this technology without authorization. Policing unauthorized use of this technology is difficult. The steps we take may not prevent misappropriation of the technology we rely on. Enforcement of our intellectual property rights also depends on our successful legal actions against these infringers, but these actions may not be successful, even when our rights have been infringed. In addition, effective protection may be unavailable or limited in some jurisdictions. We use certain intellectual property rights under licenses granted to us. Because we may not have the exclusive rights to use some of our intellectual property, other parties may be able to compete with us. The loss of key personnel or an inability to attract and retain additional personnel may impair our ability to grow our business. We are highly dependent upon the continued service and performance of our senior management team and key technical personnel, including our founder and employees from the companies that we have recently acquired. The replacement of these individuals likely would involve significant time and costs, and the loss of these officers may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. We face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous technology, software, wireless telephone and traditional telephone service provider companies. If we are unable to attract new employees and retain our current employees, we may not be able to develop and maintain our services at the same levels as our competitors and we may, therefore, lose potential customers and sales penetration in certain markets. Our failure to attract and retain suitably qualified individuals could have an adverse effect on our ability to implement our business plan and, as a result, our ability to compete would decrease, our operating results would suffer and our revenues would decrease. We may make acquisitions that prove unsuccessful or strain or divert our resources. We intend to consider acquisitions of other companies in our industry that could complement our business, including the acquisition of entities that would expand our service offerings, increase our market share or offer access to other asset classes that we do not currently serve. We have limited experience in completing acquisitions of other businesses. If we do acquire other businesses, we may not be able to successfully integrate these businesses with our own and we may be unable to maintain our standards, controls and policies. We may fail in our attempt to integrate acquired companies and businesses in such a way that we can realize cross-selling opportunities and other synergies. Further, acquisitions may place additional constraints on our resources by diverting the attention of our management from our business operations. Through acquisitions, we may enter areas in which we have no or limited experience, and an acquisition may be unsuccessful in accomplishing the intended benefits of the transaction. Moreover, any acquisition may result in substantial transaction-related expenses, a potentially dilutive issuance of equity securities, the incurrence of debt or amortization of expenses and related intangible assets, all of which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 20 We may incur operating losses in the future, and we have incurred historical operating losses. We had net losses of $0.8 million and $1.6 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively. We expect to continue to incur significant operating and certain capital expenditures as we increase our sales and marketing activities to expand our customer base and increase our research and development activities as we develop enhanced technologies and features to improve our services, products and offerings, increase our general, administrative and operating functions to support our growing operations, and since some of our activities are in a market with typically long sale cycles (primarily mobile VoIP products). As a result, we will need to generate a significant amount of revenues to achieve and maintain profitability. These increased expenses could exceed any revenues we may generate. Our efforts to attract new customers and to provide our current communications applications and services to an increased number of customers may be more expensive than we currently anticipate. If we do not significantly increase revenues after investing in these efforts, our results from operations would be harmed. Having now achieved profitability, we cannot assure you that we can sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Because of our limited operating history and the early stage of the market for some of our products and services, historical trends and expected performance are difficult to analyze. If revenues do not grow, or if operating expenses exceed our expectations or cannot be adjusted accordingly, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, significant fluctuations in our quarterly results, which might make it difficult for investors to make reliable period-to-period comparisons and may contribute to volatility in the market price of our ordinary shares. Our operating results and other income (expenses) have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate from period to period for a number of reasons. Due to the past volatility of the markets we operate in or investments we make, we cannot predict the impact on our revenues, results of operations or other income (expense) that any deterioration or other changes in such market may have. Significant annual and quarterly fluctuations in our results of operations may also be caused by our advertising and marketing activities and, among other factors, the timing and composition of orders from our customers, reduced prices for our products, the economic viability and credit-worthiness of our customers, the collectability of our receivables, the timing of new product announcements and releases of new products by us and by our competitors. Significant annual and quarterly fluctuations in other income (expense) are primarily caused by changes in the underlying value of investments and strategies. Our future results may also be affected by our ability to continue to develop, introduce and deliver enhanced and new products in a timely manner, to offer new products at competitive prices, to offer existing products at lower prices, to compete with competitors that are larger than us and to anticipate and meet customer demands. There can be no assurance that sales in any particular quarter will not be lower than those of the preceding quarters, including comparable quarters. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. The volatility in our operating results may also result in significant volatility in our share price. It is also possible that our quarterly results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. If this happens, the price of our ordinary shares is likely to decrease. Our plans to expand our operations internationally are subject to increased risks which could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. We plan to expand our operations and market and sell our magicJack products and related services internationally. There are risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: · evolving or more stringent telecommunication and broadband telephone service standards and requirements of obtaining required permits, licenses and certifications to conduct our business; · different or more stringent consumer protection, content, data protection, privacy and other laws; · import or export restrictions, tariffs and changes in trade regulations; · economic volatility and the global economic slowdown, currency exchange rate fluctuations and inflationary pressures; · profit repatriation restrictions and foreign currency exchange restrictions; · laws and business practices that favor local competitors or prohibit foreign ownership of certain businesses; · credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; · longer payment cycles; · political or social instability; and · potentially adverse tax developments. 21 Any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our ability to expand our business and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities. The amount of income tax that we pay could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory rates. In addition, we have entered into transfer pricing arrangements that establish transfer prices for our intercompany operations. However, our transfer pricing procedures are not binding on the applicable taxing authorities. No official authority in any country has made a determination as to whether or not we are operating in compliance with its transfer pricing laws. Accordingly, taxing authorities in any of these countries could challenge our transfer prices and require us to adjust them to reallocate our income. Any change to the allocation of our income as a result of review by such taxing authorities could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, the determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other uncertain tax liabilities requires significant judgment and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. RISKS RELATED TO REGULATION IN THE UNITED STATES Our business is highly dependent on regulation that continues to change. Much of the CLEC services that we provide are subject to significant regulation and may be adversely affected by regulatory developments at the federal, state and local levels. We operate in all fifty states under complex and evolving state and local telecommunications and tax laws that vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Although we believe that certain regulations do not currently apply to us, certain broadband telephone services have also been subjected to significant regulation and may be subjected to additional regulation in the future. Complying with new or clarified telecommunications, broadband telephone service, or tax regulations, and obtaining required permits, licenses or certifications in numerous jurisdictions, can be costly and disruptive to our business. If we fail to comply with applicable regulations, or if those regulations change or are clarified in a manner adverse to us, including in any of the ways described in these risk factors related to regulation, our business and operating results may suffer. Furthermore, new regulations, new laws or other factors may cause us to lose our ability to maintain certain certifications in various states, which could prevent us from providing telephone numbers to our customers. We may, instead, be required to purchase numbers from other CLECs, which would increase our expenses and would negatively impact our results. Moreover, there is no guarantee that we would be able to receive or purchase numbers from other CLECs. In such event, we would not have numbers to offer prospective customers, which would have a significant negative impact on our business. If we cannot continue to obtain key switching elements from our primary competitors on acceptable terms, we may not be able to offer our local voice and data services on a profitable basis, if at all. We will not be able to provide our local voice and data services on a profitable basis, if at all, unless we are able to obtain key switching elements from some of our primary competitors on acceptable terms. To offer local voice and data services in a market, we must connect our servers with other carriers in a specific market. This relationship is governed by an interconnection agreement or carrier service agreement between us and that carrier. We have such agreements with Verizon, AT&T, XO Communications Services and the CenturyLink network in a majority of our markets. If we are unable to continue these relationships, enter into new interconnection agreements or carrier service agreements with additional carriers to other markets or if these providers liquidate or file for bankruptcy, our business and profitability may suffer. Regulatory initiatives may continue to reduce the maximum rates we are permitted to charge long distance service providers for completing calls by their customers to customers served by our servers. The rates that we charge and are charged by service providers for terminating interstate calls by their customers to customers served by our servers, and for transferring calls by our customers onto other carriers, cannot exceed rates determined by regulatory authorities. State regulatory authorities may, in the future, similarly reduce the baseline rates we charge for intrastate terminating calls. Such federal or state rate reductions, if enacted, could affect our revenues and results of operations. 22 Regulation of broadband telephone services are developing and therefore uncertain; and future legislative, regulatory or judicial actions could adversely impact our business and expose us to liability. The current regulatory environment for broadband telephone services is developing and therefore uncertain. Although YMax, one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, may be subject to certain regulation as a telecom service provider, it and our other subsidiaries have developed in an environment largely free from government regulation. However, the United States and other countries have begun to assert regulatory authority over broadband telephone service and are continuing to evaluate how broadband telephone service will be regulated in the future. Both the application of existing rules to us and our competitors and the effects of future regulatory developments are uncertain. Future legislative, judicial or other regulatory actions could have a negative effect on our business. If our VoIP telephony service or our other products and services become subject to the rules and regulations applicable to telecommunications providers, if current broadband telephone service rules are clarified and applied to us, or if additional rules and regulations applicable specifically to broadband telephone services are adopted, we may incur significant compliance costs, and we may have to restructure our service offerings, exit certain markets or start charging for our services at least to the extent of regulatory costs or requirements, any of which could cause our services to be less attractive to customers. We have, and may continue to, face difficulty collecting such charges from our customers and/or carriers, and collecting such charges may cause us to incur legal fees. We may be unsuccessful in collecting all of the regulatory fees owed to us. The imposition of any such additional regulatory fees, charges, taxes and regulations on VoIP communications services could materially increase our costs and may limit or eliminate our competitive pricing advantages. Regulatory and governmental agencies may determine that we should be subject to rules applicable to certain broadband telephone service providers or seek to impose new or increased fees, taxes, and administrative burdens on broadband telephone service providers. We also may change our product and service offerings in a manner that subjects them to greater regulation and taxation. Such obligations could include requirements that we contribute directly to federal or state Universal Service Funds. We may also be required to meet various disability access requirements, number portability obligations, and interception or wiretapping requirements, such as the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act. The imposition of such regulatory obligations or the imposition of additional federal, state or local taxes on our services could increase our cost of doing business and limit our growth. We offer our products and services in other counties, and therefore could also be subject to regulatory risks in each such foreign jurisdiction, including the risk that regulations in some jurisdictions will prohibit us from providing our services cost-effectively or at all, which could limit our growth. Currently, there are several countries where regulations prohibit us from offering service. In addition, because customers can use our services almost anywhere that a broadband Internet connection is available, including countries where providing broadband telephone service is illegal, the governments of those countries may attempt to assert jurisdiction over us. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business. Any such violations could include prohibitions on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, could delay or prevent potential acquisitions, expose us to significant liability and regulation and could also materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business and our operating results. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate these risks and manage these difficulties. The success of our business relies on customers’ continued and unimpeded access to broadband service. Providers of broadband services may be able to block our services or charge their customers more for also using our services, which could adversely affect our revenue and growth. Our customers must have broadband access to the Internet in order to use our service. Providers of broadband access, some of whom are also competing providers of voice services, may take measures that affect their customers’ ability to use our service, such as degrading the quality of the data packets we transmit over their lines, giving those packets low priority, giving other packets higher priority than ours, blocking our packets entirely or attempting to charge their customers more for also using our services. It is not clear whether suppliers of broadband Internet access have a legal obligation to allow their customers to access and use our service without interference. As a result of certain decisions by the U.S. Supreme Court and the FCC, providers of broadband services are subject to limited FCC regulation. In August 2008, however the FCC found that it had authority to order a major cable operator to cease using network management practices that interfered with its broadband service users’ ability to use certain types of applications. Interference with our service or higher charges levied by broadband service providers for using our service could cause us to lose existing customers, impair our ability to attract new customers and harm our revenue and growth. We may be bound by certain FCC regulations relating to the provision of E911 service, and if we fail to comply with new FCC regulations requiring us to provide E911 emergency calling services, we may be subject to fines or penalties. In 2005, the FCC issued regulations requiring interconnected voice-over broadband providers to notify customers of any differences between the broadband telephone service emergency calling services and those available through traditional telephone providers and obtain affirmative acknowledgments from customers of those notifications. While we do not believe the FCC’s rules currently apply to our offering, the FCC could, however, clarify or modify its ruling to obligate us to provide E911 services according to its specific requirements. A proposal to broaden those covered by the requirements is currently under consideration by the FCC. According to the FCC’s rules, certain broadband communications companies must offer enhanced emergency calling services, or E911, to all of customers located in areas where E911 service is available from their traditional wireline telephone company. E911 service allows emergency calls from customers to be routed directly to an emergency dispatcher in a customer’s registered location and gives the dispatcher automatic access to the customer’s telephone number and registered location information. 23 The consequences of failure to comply fully with the FCC’s orders currently are unclear. Limitations on our ability to provide E911 service or to comply with changing mandates of the FCC could materially limit our growth and have a material adverse effect on our profitability. FCC rulings could also subject us to greater regulation in some states. Regulatory rulings and/or carrier disputes could affect the manner in which we interconnect and exchange traffic with other providers and the costs and revenues associated with doing so. We exchange calls with other providers pursuant to applicable law and interconnection agreements and other carrier contracts that define the rates, terms, and conditions applicable to such traffic exchange. The calls we exchange originate from and terminate to a customer that uses a broadband Internet connection to access our services and are routed using telephone numbers of the customer’s choosing. There is uncertainty, however, with respect to intercarrier compensation for such traffic while rules continue to be challenged in various courts. The FCC Order in November 2011 has asserted its jurisdiction over such traffic. Various state commissions have also issued rulings with respect to the exchange of different categories of traffic under interconnection agreements. To the extent that another provider were to assert that the traffic we exchange with them is subject to higher levels of compensation than we, or the third parties terminating our traffic to the PSTN, pay today (if any), or if other providers from whom we currently collect compensation for the exchange of such traffic refuse to pay us going forward, we may need to seek regulatory relief to resolve such a dispute. Given the recent changes to the intercarrier compensation regime, we cannot guarantee that the outcome of any proceeding would be favorable, and an unfavorable ruling could adversely affect the amounts we collect and/or pay to other providers in connection with the exchange of our traffic. Our business is subject to privacy and online security risks, including security breaches, and we could be liable for such breaches of security. If we are unable to protect the privacy of our customers making calls using our service, or information obtained from our customers in connection with their use or payment of our services, in violation of privacy or security laws or expectations, we could be subject to liability and damage to our reputation. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect customer information and prevent fraudulent transactions, data loss and other security breaches, such systems and processes may not be sufficient to prevent fraudulent transactions, data loss and other security breaches. Failure to prevent or mitigate such breaches may adversely affect our operating results. Customers may believe that using our services to make and receive telephone calls using their broadband connection could result in a reduction of their privacy, as compared to traditional wireline carriers. Additionally, our website, www.magicJack.com, serves as an online sales portal. We currently obtain and retain personal information about our website users in connection with such purchases. In addition, we obtain personal information about our customers as part of their registration to use our products and services. Federal, state and foreign governments have enacted or may enact laws or regulations regarding the collection and use of personal information. Our businesses involve the storage and transmission of users' proprietary information, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, litigation, and potential liability. An increasing number of websites, including several other Internet companies, have recently disclosed breaches of their security, some of which have involved sophisticated and highly targeted attacks on portions of their sites. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems, change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose users. A party that is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate our or our users' proprietary information, cause interruption in our operations, damage our computers or those of our users, or otherwise damage our reputation and business. Any compromise of our security could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could harm our business. Currently, a significant number of our users authorize us to bill their credit card accounts directly for all transaction fees charged by us. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication to effectively secure transmission of confidential information, including customer credit card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may result in the technology used by us to protect transaction data being breached or compromised. Non-technical means, for example, actions by a suborned employee, can also result in a data breach. 24 Possession and use of personal information in conducting our business subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens that could require notification of data breach, restrict our use of personal information and hinder our ability to acquire new customers or market to existing customers. We may incur expenses to comply with privacy and security standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation, industry standards or contractual obligations. Under payment card rules and our contracts with our card processors, if there is a breach of payment card information that we store, we could be liable to the payment card issuing banks for their cost of issuing new cards and related expenses. In addition, if we fail to follow payment card industry security standards, even if there is no compromise of customer information, we could incur significant fines or lose our ability to give customers the option of using payment cards to fund their payments or pay their fees. If we were unable to accept payment cards, our business would be seriously damaged. Our servers are also vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, and similar disruptions. We may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches. These issues are likely to become more difficult as we expand the number of places where we operate. Security breaches, including any breach by us or by parties with which we have commercial relationships that result in the unauthorized release of our users' personal information, could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. Our insurance policies carry coverage limits that may not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches. Our users, as well as those of other prominent Internet companies, have been and will continue to be targeted by parties using fraudulent “spoof” and “phishing” emails to misappropriate passwords, credit card numbers, or other personal information or to introduce viruses or other malware through “trojan horse” programs to our users' computers. These emails appear to be legitimate emails sent by magicJack, but direct recipients to fake websites operated by the sender of the email or request that the recipient send a password or other confidential information via email or download a program. Despite our efforts to mitigate “spoof” and “phishing” emails through product improvements and user education, “spoof” and “phishing” remain a serious problem that may damage our brands, discourage use of our websites, and increase our costs. We have a stringent privacy policy covering the information we collect from our customers and have established security features to protect our service. However, our security measures may not prevent security breaches. We may need to expend resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches. If unauthorized third parties were able to penetrate our security and gain access to, or otherwise misappropriate, our customers’ personal information or be able to access their telephone calls, it could harm our reputation and, therefore, our business and we could be subject to liability. Such liability could include claims for misuse of personal information or unauthorized use of credit cards. These claims could result in litigation, our involvement in which, regardless of the outcome, could require us to expend significant financial resources. Internet privacy is a rapidly changing area and we may be subject to future requirements and legislation that are costly to implement and negatively impact our results. Government regulation is evolving and unfavorable changes could harm our business. We are subject to general business regulations and laws, as well as regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet, e-commerce, and electronic devices. Existing and future laws and regulations may impede our growth. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, mobile communications, electronic device certification, electronic waste, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, web services, the provision of online payment services, unencumbered Internet access to our services, the design and operation of websites, and the characteristics and quality of products and services. It is not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, libel, and personal privacy apply to the Internet, e-commerce, digital content and web services. Jurisdictions may regulate consumer-to-consumer online businesses, including certain aspects of our seller programs. Unfavorable regulations and laws could diminish the demand for our products and services and increase our cost of doing business. RISKS RELATED TO OUR SYSTEM SECURITY Server failures or system breaches could cause delays or adversely affect our service quality, which may cause us to lose customers and revenue. In operating our servers, we may be unable to connect and manage a large number of customers or a large quantity of traffic at high speeds. Any failure or perceived failure to achieve or maintain high-speed data transmission could significantly reduce demand for our services and adversely affect our operating results. In addition, computer viruses, break-ins, human error, natural disasters and other problems may disrupt our servers. The system security and stability measures we implement may be circumvented in the future or otherwise fail to prevent the disruption of our services. The costs and resources required to eliminate computer viruses and other security problems may result in interruptions, delays or cessation of services to our customers, which could decrease demand, decrease our revenue and slow our planned expansion. 25 Hardware and software failures, delays in the operation of our computer and communications systems or the failure to implement system enhancements may harm our business. Our success depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our software and communications systems. A failure of our servers could impede the delivery of services, customer orders and day-to-day management of our business and could result in the corruption or loss of data. Despite any precautions we may take, damage from fire, floods, hurricanes, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, break-ins and similar events at our various facilities could result in interruptions in the flow of data to our servers and from our servers to our customers. In addition, any failure by our computer environment to provide our required telephone communications capacity could result in interruptions in our service. Additionally, significant delays in the planned delivery of system enhancements and improvements, or inadequate performance of the systems once they are completed, could damage our reputation and harm our business. Finally, long-term disruptions in infrastructure caused by events such as natural disasters, the outbreak of war, the escalation of hostilities, and acts of terrorism (particularly involving cities in which we have offices) could adversely affect our businesses. Although we maintain general liability insurance, including coverage for errors and omissions, this coverage may be inadequate, or may not be available in the future on reasonable terms, or at all. We cannot assure you that this policy will cover any claim against us for loss of data or other indirect or consequential damages and defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, could be costly and divert management’s attention. In addition to potential liability, if we experience interruptions in our ability to supply our services, our reputation could be harmed and we could lose customers. Our service requires an operative broadband connection, and if the adoption of broadband does not progress as expected, the market for our services will not grow and we may not be able to grow our business and increase our revenue. Use of our service requires that the user be a subscriber to an existing broadband Internet service, most typically provided through a cable or digital subscriber line, or DSL, connection. Although the number of broadband subscribers in the U.S. and worldwide has grown significantly over the last five years, this service has not yet been adopted by all consumers and is not available in every part of the United States and Canada, particularly rural locations. If the adoption of broadband services does not continue to grow, the market for our services may not grow. RISKS RELATING TO OUR ORDINARY SHARES If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our ordinary shares or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, the market price of our ordinary shares could decline. The trading market for our ordinary shares will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause the price of our ordinary shares or trading volume in our ordinary shares to decline. Moreover, if one or more of the analysts who cover our company downgrades our ordinary shares or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, the market price of our ordinary shares could decline. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our ordinary shares, which could reduce the return on your investment. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our ordinary shares and do not expect to do so in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business and to repurchase our ordinary shares not for retirement. In addition, terms of any future debt agreements may preclude us from paying cash dividends. Accordingly, any return on your investment must come from an increase in the trading price of our ordinary shares. RISKS RELATING PRIMARILY TO OUR INCORPORATION IN ISRAEL Provisions of the Israel Companies Law and anti-takeover provisions in our Articles of Association could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition, which could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. Under the Israeli Companies Law, 1999, as amended, or the Companies Law, a merger is generally required to be approved by a general meeting of the shareholders and by the board of directors of each of the merging companies. Unless an Israeli court determines differently, a merger will not be approved if it is objected to by shareholders holding a majority of the voting rights participating and voting at the meeting, after excluding the shares held by the other party to the merger, by any person who holds 25% or more of the other party to the merger or by anyone on their behalf, including by the relatives of or corporations controlled by these persons. In addition, upon the request of a creditor of either party to the proposed merger, an Israeli court may delay or prevent the merger if it concludes that there exists a reasonable concern that, as a result of the merger, the surviving company will be unable to satisfy the obligations of the target company. Further, a merger can be completed only after 30 days have elapsed from the time that shareholder resolutions are adopted in each of the merging companies and 50 days have elapsed from the time that a proposal for approval of the merger was filed with the Israeli Registrar of Companies. In addition, subject to certain exceptions, an acquisition of shares in a public company must be made by means of a tender offer to the extent that as a result of such acquisition the acquirer will hold 25% or more of the voting rights in the company if there is no other holder of 25% or more of the company’s voting rights, or hold more than 45% of the voting rights in the company if there is no other holder of more than 45% of the company’s voting rights. 26 Certain provisions of our Articles of Association, or the Articles, may have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition of the Company deemed undesirable by our Board of Directors. These provisions include a requirement that most of amendments of our Articles must be approved by the holders of not less than seventy-five percent (75%) of the voting power represented at the meeting in person or by proxy and voting thereon. The provisions of the Articles and Israeli law could deter or delay potential future merger, acquisition, tender or takeover offers, proxy contests or changes in control or management of the Company, some of which could be deemed by certain shareholders to be in their best interests and which could affect the price some investors are willing to pay for our ordinary shares. It may be difficult to pursue an action in the U.S. or to enforce a U.S. judgment, including actions or judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, against us and our executive officers and directors, or to assert U.S. securities law claims in Israel. Certain of our directors are not residents of the United States and certain of their assets and our assets are located outside the United States. Without consent to service of process, additional procedures may be necessary to serve individuals who are not U.S. residents. Therefore, it may be difficult to serve process on those directors who are not U.S. residents in order to commence any lawsuit against them before a U.S. court, including an action based on the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities laws. An investor also may find it difficult to enforce a U.S. court judgment in an Israeli court, including a judgment based on federal securities laws. An Israeli court will not enforce a foreign judgment if it was given in a state whose laws do not provide for the enforcement of judgments of Israeli courts (subject to exceptional cases) or if its enforcement is likely to prejudice the sovereignty or security of the State of Israel. An investor may also find it difficult to bring an original action in an Israeli court to enforce liabilities based upon the U.S. federal securities laws against us, or against our directors and officers. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws and rule that Israel is not the most appropriate forum in which to bring such a claim. In addition, even if an Israeli court agrees to hear such a claim, it may determine that Israeli law, and not U.S. law, is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Shareholder Approval of Certain Executive Compensation Under the Companies Law, arrangements between a public company and a director as to the terms of his office, and an arrangement with a director regarding compensation for non-directorial duties in a public company, require the approval of the compensation committee followed by the approval of the board of directors and the shareholders of the company. Therefore, compensation payable to our executive officers who also serve on our board of directors requires approval of our compensation committee, board of directors and shareholders. A recent amendment to the Companies Law requires shareholder approval for chief executive officer compensation including (i) the vote of at least a majority of the shares held by shareholders who are not controlling shareholders or have a personal interest in the proposal (shares held by abstaining shareholders shall not be taken into account); or (ii) that the aggregate number of shares voting against the proposal held by such shareholders does not exceed 2% of the Company's voting shareholders ("Special Majority"). 27 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 