risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those provided in the forward-looking statements. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview We are a medical device company that develops, manufactures and markets surgical products, many of which are based on our minimally invasive patented Coblation® technology. We have grown beyond our roots in arthroscopy to capitalize on market opportunities across several medical specialties, improving many existing soft-tissue surgical procedures and enabling new minimally invasive procedures. Our innovative technologies improve the lives of individuals as diverse as world-class athletes suffering from torn rotator cuffs or anterior cruciate ligaments to senior citizens suffering from herniated discs and children suffering from tonsillitis. We incorporated in California in 1993 and reincorporated in Delaware in 1995. Our objective is to expand on our position as a leading global provider of minimally invasive surgical products. We seek to differentiate ourselves in this competitive market by providing our patients and user-physicians with improved treatment options. To accomplish this objective, we are focused on a business strategy featuring the following key elements: •expanding our product offering to address large and rapidly growing domestic and international markets; •improving selected established medical procedures by replacing current technologies with our technologies; •continuing to improve sales and cash flow through a combination of direct sales representatives, independent sales agents and distributors; •augmenting our current business with complementary and compatible acquisitions that allow us to capitalize on emerging and existing business opportunities and the strength of our distribution capability; and •establishing strategic partnerships to further commercialize our technologies and products. Financial Restatement, Regulatory Reviews and Other Significant Recent Events As previously reported, during 2009 and 2008, we experienced substantial delays in filing our periodic reports as a result of issues identified during a review of certain accounting and financial reporting matters as well as certain insurance billing and healthcare compliance practices conducted 3 Table of Contents under the direction of our Audit Committee (the "Review"), which began in July 2008. The Review was completed in August 2009 and the results were reported to the Audit Committee and to the Board. In July 2008, we also commenced a separate comprehensive review of our accounting policies and procedures, financial reporting, internal controls and corporate governance. We completed this comprehensive review in November 2009, and as a result of our comprehensive review and the Review we made extensive organizational and operational changes, and improved our internal controls. As a result of errors and possible irregularities identified by the Review and management's own review and analysis of certain accounting matters, we restated our financial statements for: the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, 2005, and 2004; the quarter ended March 31, 2008 and each of the quarters for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 filed on November 18, 2009. Changes to Management For more information on changes to management, see "Part II—Item 9A—Controls and Procedures." Litigation For more information on litigation, see "Part I—Item 3—Legal Proceedings" and Note 10, "Litigation and Contingencies" in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Business Overview Our business is divided into three business units: Sports Medicine, Ear Nose and Throat, or ENT, and Spine. Each of the Sports Medicine, ENT and Spine business units market and sell their products in two principal geographic markets: Americas (North and South America) and International (all other geographies). Many of our key products are based on our patented Coblation technology, which uses bipolar radiofrequency energy to generate a precisely focused plasma field to remove and shape soft tissues such as cartilage and tendons. This use of bipolar energy is the primary factor that distinguishes our Coblation technology from traditional monopolar and bipolar radiofrequency surgical tools. Monopolar devices drive electrical energy into the treatment site and requires electrical energy to travel through the patient's body and exit via a grounding pad usually placed underneath the patient. Conversely, traditional bipolar devices include both an active electrode and a return at the tip of the device so a separate grounding pad is not required. To effect treatment by a bipolar device, electrical energy is applied at the surgical site, where it is concentrated at the targeted tissue and exits via the return electrode. These traditional monopolar and bipolar electrosurgical or laser surgery tools use the heat from the electrical current to burn away targeted tissue, often causing thermal damage to tissue surrounding the targeted surgical area. Our bipolar Coblation devices also include both an active and return electrode at the tip but, in contrast to other bipolar devices, apply electrical energy in a conductive medium at the surgical site. The electrical energy along with electrically conductive fluid, which is found in normal saline solutions, form a highly ionized vapor layer, or plasma field, around the active electrode of the Coblation device. This plasma field enables our Coblation-based products to operate at lower temperatures than traditional devices, minimizing tissue necrosis and damage when compared to traditional bipolar or monopolar instruments. The use of Coblation allows surgeons to operate with a high level of precision and accuracy to minimize collateral tissue damage. Our Coblation-based systems consist of a controller unit with accessories and an assortment of sterile, single-use disposable devices that are engineered to address 4 Table of Contents specific types of procedures. A single multi-purpose surgical system using Coblation technology can replace the multiple surgical tools traditionally used in soft-tissue surgery procedures. We have applied Coblation technology to soft-tissue surgery throughout the body, primarily in the areas of arthroscopic sports medicine, ENT and spine applications. We also are exploring the use of Coblation technology in other markets. Our Sports Medicine Business Unit Overview Our Sports Medicine business unit focuses on the development, production and marketing of surgical products used in the treatment of soft tissue injuries, mostly in the shoulder, knees and hips. Each year, we estimate that more than 600,000 people in the U.S. suffer from instabilities or tendon tears of the shoulder and 1.2 million more people are treated for cartilage, meniscus or tendon injuries in the knee. Sports Medicine is currently our largest business unit and accounted for 66.4 percent, 65.8 percent and 65.4 percent of our total product sales during 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We have experienced significant growth in Sports Medicine that we believe has been driven by several factors, including: •a greater emphasis on physical fitness across all demographics and an aging population accustomed to an active lifestyle, which results in an increasing incidence of joint and soft tissue injuries; •increased patient demand for less invasive surgical procedures; •an increase in the number of arthroscopic procedures in which our products are used; and •an increase in the number of physicians trained in arthroscopic surgical techniques. Sports injuries often affect joints that are susceptible to injuries from blows, falls or sudden changes in direction, as well as from natural degeneration associated with repeated use and aging. Arthroscopic surgeries are most commonly performed on the knees and shoulders but are also used in the treatment of injuries affecting other joints, such as elbows, wrists, ankles and hips. Prior to the widespread availability of arthroscopic surgery, joint injuries were treated through surgery involving large incisions, and through cutting or dislocating muscles to reach targeted tissues. These open procedures often required a hospital stay and prolonged rehabilitation and recovery. In contrast, arthroscopic surgery is performed through several small incisions, or portals, resulting in lower overall costs, reduced surgical trauma, pain and scarring, and fewer complications. Arthroscopic surgery generally is performed on an outpatient basis with no overnight stay. We believe that the products that we develop, produce, market and sell through Sports Medicine represent a substantial advancement in arthroscopic surgery because our technologies minimize collateral tissue damage to reduce patient pain and speed recovery times. Our Sports Medicine Products The ArthroWand® Product Line. Our ArthroWand product line is the principal product line in Sports Medicine. This line features a series of Coblation based specialized disposable radio frequency surgical wands designed for single patient use to treat a number of orthopedic conditions, including injuries of the shoulder, knee, hip, foot, ankle, elbow and wrist. ArthroWands are used with a controller, a software based radio frequency generator that provides electromagnetic energy used to create the localized plasma for tissue removal in arthroscopic surgeries for ablation, resection and coagulation of soft tissue and to seal bleeding vessels. The Opus® Collection. In 2004, we acquired Opus Medical, Inc., a manufacturer of a proprietary family of specialized implants and instruments including the Opus AutoCuff® System, which facilitates a 5 Table of Contents "knotless" arthroscopic repair of the rotator cuff. Before Opus, variation in physician skills and training were limitations to wide adoption of completely arthroscopic surgical repairs. Opus technology enabled many surgeons to complete repairs arthroscopically that previously were only possible with open surgical methods. These products may reduce overall procedural costs and surgical time, and expand the number of patients eligible for arthroscopic treatment. In 2005, we introduced another device to the Opus Collection, the LabraFix® System, which uses technology similar to the AutoCuff System to facilitate knotless arthroscopic repair of connective tissue in the portion of the shoulder known as the labrum. The labrum is a ring of tissue within the shoulder joint that helps maintain stability within the shoulder. LabraFix helped address patients who suffered from acute or chronic shoulder dislocation. We also recently expanded this product line to include other anchors, such as the TwinLock® to treat partial or avulsed tears of the rotator cuff, Magnum® M (Metal) and Magnum MP (PEEK) anchors for use in double row anchor repairs of the rotator cuff, and the SpeedScrew®, a knotless screw in type anchor made of PEEK material designed to maximize fixation of tendon to bone in rotator cuff repairs. We have recently introduced the Opus knotless anchor technology to foot and ankle surgeons for reattachment of torn or ruptured tendons. The Atlantech® Collection. In 2002, we acquired two of our European distributors, which allowed us to accelerate the implementation of our direct sales strategy in two key European markets and access to a line of more than 1,500 specialty sports medicine products that aid surgeons in repairing and accessing damaged tissues. The products in the Atlantech Collection include a broad line of hand-held surgical instruments, procedural kits and trays and reusable accessories to facilitate arthroscopic surgery. Our ENT Business Unit Overview Our ENT business unit focuses on the development, production and marketing of surgical products used in the treatment of conditions affecting soft tissues in the ear, nose and throat. Our ENT business unit accounted for 27.1 percent, 26.5 percent, and 26.4 percent of our total product sales during 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. One of the most common ENT procedures is the removal of tonsils and adenoids, and we estimate that there are more than 600,000 tonsillectomies performed in the U.S. each year. The majority of tonsillectomies are performed on pediatric patients. Other commonly performed ENT procedures include endoscopic sinus surgery, turbinate reduction and procedures to remove or stiffen tissue to treat snoring. These procedures are performed by ENT surgeons in hospitals and ambulatory surgery centers. Historically, monopolar electrocautery devices, or bovies, were the standard for removal, or ablation, of soft tissue and cauterization in ENT procedures. As discussed above, these monopolar devices can generate high levels of heat, resulting in collateral damage to tissue adjacent to the targeted tissue, significant post-operative pain and increased patient recovery times. Coblation continues to gain widespread market acceptance, particularly for tonsil and adenoid procedures. Our ENT Products The ENT Wands Product Line. ENT has developed a variety of products for use by ENT surgeons for general head, neck and oral surgical procedures, including sinus surgery, the treatment of snoring, reduction of nasal turbinates, and adenoid and tonsil removal. ENT markets three categories of disposable devices, or wands, to address the ENT Market—suction wands, channeling wands and excision wands, each of which use Coblation technology to provide significant benefits over bovies and similar devices. During a tonsillectomy, suction wands simultaneously ablate and remove tissue providing the surgeon enhanced visibility and shortening anesthesia time. Channeling wands provide controlled ablation with effective hemostasis control to minimize bleeding during turbinate reduction 6 Table of Contents procedures, which relieve nasal obstructions and stiffen the soft palate for the treatment of snoring. Excision wands provide precise dissection of soft tissue with minimal damage to surrounding tissue. The Rapid Rhino® Product Line. In 2005, we completed the purchase of substantially all of the assets of Applied Therapeutics, Inc., or ATI, a maker of sinus surgery treatment products, that are complementary to our ENT devices. ATI's carboxymethyl-cellulose based packing and tamponade products are used in situations of significant nosebleed, or epistaxis, treatments which are treated in an emergency room setting or surgicenter. Our Rapid Rhino product line includes the dissolvable Stammberger Sinus Dressing and Sinu Knit, which are used after endoscopic sinus surgery to control minor bleeding, facilitate epithelial healing and preserve the spatial integrity of the sinus area. Our Rapid Rhino product line also includes epistaxis balloon tamponade products, which are used primarily in the hospital emergency room environment to control chronic nosebleeds. Our Spine Business Unit Overview Our Spine business unit focuses on the development, production and marketing of surgical products used in the treatment of spine-related conditions, and accounted for 6.5 percent, 7.7 percent and 8.2 percent of our product sales during 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The spine surgery market is a rapidly growing subset of the orthopedic surgery market. Spinal surgery may arise from problems associated with the intervertebral discs or vertebrae. Discs function to cushion and tether the vertebrae and facilitate flexibility and stability. Intervertebral discs are susceptible to degeneration (which can weaken the shock absorption properties of the disc and result in pinched nerves) and herniation where the disc bulges or ruptures. Bulging or ruptured discs can result in pain in the back and throughout the body and, if severe and untreated, may result in partial paralysis. It is estimated that 350,000 total or partial discectomies to treat disc herniation are performed annually in the U.S. Treatment of herniation typically involves the removal of part of the disc using a procedure known as a partial or microdiscectomy. In more severe cases, vertebrae adjacent to the herniated disc must be stabilized following excision of disc material and a spinal fusion procedure is performed. Spinal fusion involves the insertion of a graft or implant into the space left by the removal of the degenerative disc. This process allows the bone to grow through and around the graft or implant, fusing the vertebrae and alleviating the pain. More recently, a process known as arthroplasty, which involves the surgical replacement of a herniated disc with implantation of an artificial disc, has been introduced to preserve the natural motion of the spine and lead to faster recovery than standard fusion procedures. However, reimbursement has not been well established for these disc replacement procedures so less invasive options remain popular. Our Spine Products SpineWand® Product Line. The SpineWand devices use Coblation-based technology to treat soft tissue (intervertebral disc) conditions in the spine. Disc decompression, a common soft tissue minimally-invasive treatment for herniated discs, involves the removal of disc material either through a narrow tube, or cannula, using x-ray technology for guidance or through a minimal surgical incision. Ongoing clinical studies are evaluating minimally invasive disc decompression as an alternative to current forms of standard care for certain indications associated with this condition. Our Plasma Disc Decompression, or PDD, SpineWands are products for the treatment of contained herniated discs. The PDD SpineWands remove portions of these herniated discs to relieve pressure on major spinal nerves and are designed for use in both large and small disc spaces, as well as for treatments requiring the removal of soft tissue in the spine through a much smaller incision rather than through a cannula. Our Cavity SpineWand® is used to reduce the size of malignant lesions within the vertebrae in patients suffering from spinal compression fractures resulting from benign and malignant tumors. 7 Table of Contents The Parallax® Product Line. In 2004, we completed the acquisition of Medical Device Alliance, Inc. and its majority-owned subsidiary, Parallax Medical, a leader in products for the minimally invasive treatment of vertebral compression fractures. It is estimated that 750,000 Americans currently suffer from vertebral compression fractures, which are caused by osteoporosis, trauma or metastatic disease. Approximately 250,000 of these patients are treated annually. The Parallax product line includes needles for vertebral access and bone biopsy, cement delivery systems, bone cement with opacifiers and ancillary devices; all of which permit minimally invasive repair of vertebral compression fractures. In mid-2008, we introduced Contour®, a mechanical device that is used to compress fragile bone or displace bone in the vertebral body through mechanical force. Reimbursement Assistance Services Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2005, DiscoCare, Inc., or DiscoCare, an independently owned medical device distributor and reimbursement service provider, purchased SpineWand products from us and sought reimbursement for the wands on a "carve-out" or "stand-alone" basis. DiscoCare provided the products to its customers generally at no charge in exchange for either (i) an assignment of the right to bill private third-party insurance companies and other payors for the product or (ii) a letter of protection or attorney's lien in a personal injury case for separate reimbursement of the product. DiscoCare originally distributed our SpineWand products on a limited geographical basis. DiscoCare approached us about distributing the SpineWands pursuant to this "carve-out" or "stand-alone" model and providing reimbursement services to customers on a national basis, and in the fourth quarter of 2006, our agreement was amended to provide DiscoCare with national distribution and reimbursement services rights and to require us to pay a service fee to DiscoCare. In June 2007, we established a new, wholly-owned subsidiary, Device Reimbursement Services, or DRS, which in the fourth quarter of 2007 began to sell our Sports Medicine products, generally at discounted prices, in exchange for an assignment of the right to bill private third-party insurance companies and other payors for our products upon completion of a procedure using our products. On December 31, 2007, we acquired all of the common stock of DiscoCare from its sole shareholder. In connection with the DiscoCare transaction, we paid $25.0 million in cash and agreed to additional contingent consideration, the amount and timing of which was dependent on the future performance of the DiscoCare business, adoption of favorable coverage decisions by third party insurers and the former sole-shareholder complying with a five-year non-compete agreement. We have accounted for this $25.0 million payment as a settlement of our preexisting agreement with DiscoCare and recognized this amount as a charge in our 2007 consolidated statement of operations. Additionally, we accrued $0.8 million in our 2007 consolidated statement of operations related to the non-compete agreement as we determined that payment of this contingent consideration was probable and provided us no future benefit. After the acquisition of DiscoCare, we continued to sell products and provide reimbursement services through our DiscoCare and DRS subsidiaries until the fourth quarter of 2008, when DiscoCare ceased accepting letters of protection in personal injury cases and making any further claims to healthcare carriers. All other claims submission by DiscoCare and DRS ceased in the first quarter of 2009 and the subsidiaries have continued to engage in an orderly wind down of their business operations. Our Customers and Competition Our primary customers across all of our business units are surgeons and other specialized medical professionals who utilize our products to treat their patients. Our primary competitors across all of our business units include Medtronic, Inc., Smith & Nephew, Stryker Corporation, Johnson & Johnson, 8 Table of Contents Cardinal Health/Allegiance, Olympus (through its subsidiary Gyrus), Arthrex, Inc. and Cook Medical. These competitors tend to be large, well-financed companies with diverse product lines. In addition, we are aware of several small companies offering alternative treatments for back pain that may indirectly compete with our Spine products. In the Sports Medicine market, we also compete directly with competitors to whom we have licensed our technology for limited fields of use. For additional discussion of the risks and considerations concerning our competition, see "Part I—Item 1A—Risk Factors." Our Distribution Network Distribution in the Americas We sell our products in the Americas through a network of direct sales representatives, independent orthopedic sales agents and independent orthopedic distributors supported by our regional sales managers. Sales in the Americas accounted for 73.2 percent, 74.0 percent and 75.8 percent of our total product sales during 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. As of December 31, 2009, our direct sales network in the Americas was comprised of 176 direct sales representatives. We supplement our direct sales representatives with third-party agents and distributors. The ratio of direct sales representatives and independent sales agents and distributors varies based on the product being sold and the development of individual markets. For example, in the U.S., we rely exclusively on direct sales representatives for our ENT products due in part to the higher degree of specialized knowledge required to sell the products and the more limited availability of qualified distributors or agents in the market to which these products are sold. We continually evaluate the balance between direct sales representatives, independent agents and distributors in an effort to maximize the coverage and efficiency of our product sales platform. For the year ended December 31, 2009, approximately 48 percent of Americas product sales were from direct sales representatives and the remainder was from independent sales agents or distributors. Distribution in the International Market We also market and sell our products in countries outside of the Americas, which accounted for 26.8 percent, 26.0 percent and 24.2 percent of our total product sales during 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our international sales efforts are focused on current key markets where we sell direct, including several countries in Western Europe and Australia, as well as strategic growth markets, including India, China and Russia where we work primarily through our distributors. We expect that our strategic growth markets will develop into key markets for our products in the future. Historically our international sales efforts were primarily dependent on third-party distributors and we typically utilize third-party distributors to enter new markets. For the year ending December 31, 2009, approximately 65 to 70 percent of international sales were derived from direct sales representatives and independent sales agents through whom we are able to manage the relationship with our end customers and the remainder is through distributors. Geographic Information For financial reporting purposes, net sales and long-lived assets attributable to significant geographic areas are presented in Note 17, "Segment Information" in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Research and Development We conduct significant research and development activities in the U.S. on three campuses in Irvine and Sunnyvale, California and Austin, Texas. Research and development expenses as reported includes 9 Table of Contents experimental research, new product development, process engineering, regulatory affairs and clinical studies and were 10.9 percent, 10.4 percent and 10.1 percent of our total net revenues during 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our efforts are focused on: •modifying and enhancing the performance of our existing technologies and products, •designing new disposable devices that incorporate added functionalities, •developing new applications of our Coblation and other innovative technologies and •developing complementary technologies and products for introduction into our product portfolio in order to provide more value to our customers and participate to a greater extent in certain surgical procedures. We continue to explore and develop the plasma physics underlying our Coblation technology and evaluate the use of our technology in new fields of treatment. We are engaged with a number of doctors, scientists and research institutions to further understand the technology and its additional applications and other technical improvements. To facilitate our research and development efforts, we routinely receive feedback from the physicians who use our products and consult with our Scientific Advisory Boards, which are comprised of respected and experienced physicians and surgeons who advise us on our products, current and prospective, and other areas relating to our medical devices. These medical professionals are valued contributors and advisors to our research and development process and allow us to achieve significant and innovative strides in our product development. Manufacturing and Supply Our products are primarily manufactured at our facility located in San Jose, Costa Rica. In 2003, we transformed our primary Sunnyvale facility from a general manufacturing facility to a facility with a primary focus on research, development and prototype manufacturing. In 2005, the lease for the Sunnyvale facility was extended through February 2014. Approximately 50 percent of this facility is devoted to research and new product development. We believe our existing operations will provide adequate capacity for our manufacturing needs at least through 2010. We have established manufacturing process and quality assurance systems in conformance with the International Organization for Standardization's ISO 13485:2003 standard, the FDA's Quality System Regulation, 21 CFR 820 and we are certified under the Canadian Medical Devices Conformity Assessment System. Our facilities are in conformance with domestic and international regulatory requirements that apply to medical device manufacturers and routinely are subject to audits by U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, Technischer Überwachungs-Verein, or TUV, a Notified Body per the Medical Device Directive for the European Union, and other regulatory agencies representing countries such as Japan and Brazil. Our products are manufactured from several components, most of which are supplied to us from third parties. Most of the components we use in the manufacture of our products are available from more than one qualified supplier. For some components, however, there are relatively few alternative sources of supply and the establishment of additional or replacement suppliers may not be accomplished quickly. In isolated cases, we rely upon single source suppliers. In such cases, a disruption of our single supply source could materially affect and disrupt our ability to manufacture and distribute certain of our products. Due to regulatory and other requirements regarding the manufacture of our products, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement sources for these certain components or materials. Generally, we have been able to obtain adequate supplies of such raw materials and components. We also primarily use a single subcontractor located in Costa Rica to sterilize our disposable devices. As part of an agreement with this subcontractor in which we loaned the 10 Table of Contents subcontractor a majority of the funds necessary to construct their Costa Rican sterilization facility, we receive guaranteed processing times on their sterilization services. While we have alternate product sterilization service providers, a significant disruption to the primary sterilization provider could temporarily impact the company's ability to supply products in a timely manner. Disruption of these supply sources, and our inability to develop alternative sources for such supply, would result in a material disruption of our ability to sell this line of products for an extended time period and could adversely affect our operations. DHL Worldwide Express, Inc. is a significant provider of logistic services, including warehousing of finished goods and a variety of transportation services. The company primarily utilizes FedEx Corporation as the provider of transportation services associated with the shipment of finished products to customers and field returns in North America. Shipment of finished products outside of North America and the transportation of raw materials and other production related shipments are handled by a variety of third party common carriers based on a competitive sourcing process. The providers of these services change from time to time and there are alternate sources of these services should any single provider prove unable to supply contracted services. The complex nature of the underlying support technologies utilized to exchange critical product information with these third party transportation providers, such as "Electronic Data Interchange," has, at times, caused disruptions in our ability to deliver products to customers on a timely basis. Failure of these supporting systems could impair our business for the duration of the failure. Patents and Proprietary Rights Our ability to compete effectively depends in part on developing and maintaining the proprietary aspects of our technologies, including Coblation technology and our acquired technologies. We own over 190 issued U.S. patents and over 150 issued international patents. In addition, we have over 160 U.S. and international pending patent applications. We believe our issued patents are directed at, among other things, the core technology used in our soft-tissue surgery systems, including both multi-electrode and single electrode configurations of our disposable devices, as well as the use of Coblation technology in many different surgical procedures. In addition, our issued patents are directed at many of the core features of our acquired technologies from Opus, Atlantech, Parallax and ATI. Our earliest Coblation patents begin to expire in 2012. The majority of our royalty income is associated with licenses that include core Coblation patent rights which extend through the end of 2014. See "Part I—Item 1A—Risk Factors" and Intangible Asset information outlined in Note 7, "Goodwill and Intangible Assets" in the notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Government Regulation U.S. Our products are considered medical devices and are subject to extensive regulation in the U.S. We must comply with FDA regulations to market our products or obtain pre-market clearance or approval by the FDA for each of our products and indications before they can be commercialized. FDA regulations are wide-ranging and govern, among other things: product design and development; product testing; product labeling; product storage; premarket clearance or approval; advertising and promotion; and product sales and distribution. Non-compliance with applicable regulatory requirements can result in enforcement action, which may include: warning letters; fines, injunctions and civil penalties against us; recall or seizure of our products; operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of our production; refusing our requests for premarket clearance or approval of new products; withdrawing product approvals already granted; and criminal prosecution. 11 Table of Contents Unless an exemption applies, generally, before we can introduce a new medical device into the U.S. market, we must obtain FDA clearance of a 510(k) premarket notification or obtain premarket approval. If we can establish that our device is "substantially equivalent" to an existing device for which the FDA has not called for premarket approvals, we may seek clearance from the FDA to market the device by submitting a 510(k) premarket notification. The 510(k) premarket notification requires the support of appropriate data, including, in some cases, clinical data establishing the claim of substantial equivalence to the satisfaction of the FDA. Where product is not deemed as substantially equivalent to an existing device, a more rigorous premarket approval process is required. This second process requires us to independently demonstrate that the new medical device is safe and effective by collecting data regarding design, materials, bench and animal testing, and human clinical data for the medical device. Once the FDA determines there is reasonable assurance that the medical device is safe and effective, the FDA will authorize the device's commercial release. The premarket approval process is much more detailed, time-consuming and expensive than the 510(k) process. We have received 510(k) clearance to the extent we believe it is required for all of our products for a variety of indications. We strive to ensure that our products not requiring clearance meet our manufacturing and quality guidelines and standards to the same extent as if clearance were required. For additional discussion of the risks and considerations surrounding our business in the context of our regulatory environment, see "Part I—Item 1A—Risk Factors." International International sales of our products are subject to strict regulatory requirements. The regulatory review process varies from country to country. The member countries of the European Union, or EU, have adopted the European Medical Device Directives, which create a single set of medical device regulations for all EU member countries. These regulations require companies that wish to manufacture and distribute medical devices in EU member countries to obtain Conformitè Europèenne Marking, or CE Mark, for their products. We have authorization to apply the CE Mark to substantially all of our products. Additionally, we have obtained regulatory clearance to market our key products throughout other countries. General Considerations The demand for our products is highly dependent on the policies of third-party payors such as Medicare, Medicaid, and private insurance and managed care organizations that reimburse our customers when they use our products. If coverage or payment policies of these third-party payors are revised in light of increased efforts to control healthcare spending or otherwise, the amount we may charge or the demand for our products may decrease. Government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, private healthcare insurance and managed-care plans have attempted and continue to attempt to control costs by limiting the amount of reimbursement they will pay for particular procedures or treatments. This practice has increased price sensitivity among certain customers for our products. Additionally, some third-party payors require approval of coverage for new or innovative devices or therapies before they will reimburse healthcare providers who use the medical devices or therapies. Even though a new medical device may have been approved for commercial distribution, we may find limited demand for the device until reimbursement approval has been obtained from governmental and private third-party payors. In the U.S., we believe that healthcare reform legislation proposals will most likely remain focused on reducing the cost of healthcare and that efforts by private payors to contain costs through managed care and other methods will continue in the future as efforts to reform the healthcare system continue. We believe we are well positioned to respond to changes resulting from the worldwide trend toward cost containment due to our manufacturing efficiencies and 12 Table of Contents cost controls. However, it is difficult for us to predict the potential impact of cost containment trends on future operating results due to uncertainty that remains regarding future legislation. Federal healthcare laws apply when we or our customers submit claims for items or services that are reimbursed under Medicare, Medicaid or other federally funded healthcare programs. The principal federal laws include: (1) the False Claims Act which prohibits the submission of false or otherwise improper claims for payment to a federally-funded healthcare program; (2) the Anti-Kickback Statute which prohibits offers to pay or receive remuneration of any kind for the purpose of inducing or rewarding referrals of items or services reimbursable by a Federal healthcare program; (3) the Stark law which prohibits physicians from referring Medicare or Medicaid patients to a provider that bills these programs for the provision of certain designated health services if the physician (or a member of the physician's immediate family) has a financial relationship with that provider; and (4) healthcare fraud statutes that prohibit false statements and improper claims with any third-party payor. Often similar state false claims, anti-kickback, anti-self referral and insurance laws also apply to claims submitted under state Medicaid or state funded healthcare programs. In addition, the U.S. Federal Corrupt Practices Act can be used to prosecute companies in the U.S. for arrangements with physicians, or other parties outside the U.S. if the physician or party is a government official of another country and the arrangement violates the law of that country. The laws applicable to us are subject to change and to evolving interpretations. To help assure more consistent business practices, we are actively implementing a corporate-wide compliance program to enable consistent business practices throughout our business areas in conformity with applicable laws and regulations. However, if a governmental authority were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we and our officers and employees could be subject to significant criminal and civil penalties including substantial penalties, fines and damages, and exclusion from participation as a supplier of product to beneficiaries covered by Medicare or Medicaid. Impact of Business Outside of the U.S. Our operations in countries outside the U.S. are accompanied by certain financial and other risks. Relationships with customers and effective terms of sale vary by country, often with longer payment terms on receivables than are typical in the U.S. Currency exchange rate fluctuations can affect net sales from, and profitability of, our operations outside the U.S. See "Part II—Item 7A—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" and Note 17, "Segment Information" in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. In addition, the repatriation of certain earnings of our foreign operations may result in U.S. tax cost of approximately $6.1 million. Product Liability Risk and Insurance Coverage The development, manufacture and sale of medical products entail significant risk of product liability claims. We cannot assure you that our current product liability insurance coverage limits are adequate to protect us from any liabilities we might incur in connection with the development, manufacture and sale of our products. In addition, we may require increased product liability coverage as products are successfully commercialized in additional applications. Product liability insurance is expensive and in the future may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to attract and retain customers for our products. Employees At December 31, 2009 we had 1,363 employees. In North America, we had 459 employees, of which 22 were engaged in manufacturing-related activities, 113 in research and development, process 13 Table of Contents engineering, and clinical affairs activities, 196 in sales and marketing activities, 55 in regulatory affairs and quality assurance, and 73 in administration and finance. In Europe, we had 179 employees in sales and marketing, customer service, manufacturing, regulatory affairs, and administration and finance who are responsible for our international business. In Asia Pacific we had 19 employees engaged in sales and marketing activities and administration and finance activities. In Costa Rica, we had 706 employees engaged in manufacturing and administration and finance. We have no employees covered by collective bargaining agreements, and we believe we maintain good relations with our employees. Where You Can Find Additional Information We maintain an internet website at www.ArthroCare.com. On our website, we make available, free of charge, the following filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC: our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. You may also read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Our reports, proxy statements and other documents filed electronically with the SEC are available at the website maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov. Forward Looking Statements This Annual Report may include "forward-looking" statements. Forward-looking statements broadly involve our current expectations or forecasts of future results. Our forward-looking statements generally relate to our growth and growth strategies, financial results, product development, regulatory approvals, competitive strengths, intellectual property rights, litigation and tax matters, mergers and acquisitions, market acceptance of our products, accounting estimates, financing activities, ongoing contractual obligations and sales efforts. Such statements can be identified by the use of terminology such as "anticipate," "believe," "could," "estimate," "expect," "forecast," "intend," "may," "plan," "possible," "project," "should," "will" and similar words or expressions. For more information about the nature of forward-looking statements and risks that could affect our future results and the disclosure provided in this Annual Report, please see "Part I—Item 1A—Risk Factors" and Exhibit 99.1—Forward-Looking Statements, which is incorporated herein by reference. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This section identifies specific risks that should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. Any of these risks could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Although we believe that these risks represent the material risks relevant to us, our business and our industry, new material risks may emerge that we are currently unable to predict. As a result, this description of the risks that affect our business and our industry is not exhaustive. The risks discussed below could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical results or the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in Exhibit 99.1 Forward-Looking Statements. Material weaknesses and other control deficiencies relating to our internal control over financial reporting could result in errors in our reported results and could have a material adverse effect on our operations, investor confidence in our business and the trading prices of our securities. Internal control over financial reporting cannot provide absolute assurance of achieving financial reporting objectives because of its inherent limitations. Internal control over financial reporting is a 14 Table of Contents process that involves human diligence and compliance and is subject to lapses in judgment and breakdowns resulting from human failures. Internal control over financial reporting can also be circumvented by collusion or improper management override. Because of such limitations, there is a risk that material misstatements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis by internal control over financial reporting. However, these inherent limitations are known features of the financial reporting process, and it is possible to design into the process safeguards to reduce, though not eliminate, the risk. Management's assessment of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009 concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective and that material weaknesses existed. Until these material weaknesses and other control deficiencies are remediated, they could lead to errors in our reported financial results and could have a material adverse effect on our operations, investor confidence in our business and the trading prices of our securities. As described in "Part II—Item 9A—Controls and Procedures" we are currently in the process of remediating our identified material weaknesses. Management's continuing evaluation and work to enhance our internal control over financial reporting will require the dedication of additional resources and management time and expense. If we fail to establish and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting, including any failure to implement remediation measures and enhancements for internal controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business, financial condition and operating results could be harmed. Any material weakness or unsuccessful remediation could affect investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial statements. As a result, our ability to obtain any additional financing, or additional financing on favorable terms, could be materially and adversely affected, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our business, our strategic alternatives, our financial condition and the market value of our securities. In addition, perceptions of us among customers, lenders, investors, securities analysts and others could also be adversely affected. Current material weaknesses or any weaknesses or deficiencies identified in the future could also hurt confidence in our business and the accuracy and completeness of our financial statements, and adversely affect our ability to do business with these groups. We can give no assurances that the measures we have taken to date, or any future measures we may take, will remediate the material weaknesses identified or that any additional material weaknesses will not arise in the future due to our failure to implement and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting. In addition, even if we are successful in strengthening our controls and procedures, those controls and procedures may not be adequate to prevent or identify irregularities or ensure the fair and accurate presentation of our financial statements included in our periodic reports filed with the SEC. A failure to remain current in our filings may have material impacts on our business and liquidity If we are not able to remain current in our filings with the SEC, we will face several adverse consequences and restrictions. We will not be able to have a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, covering a public offering of securities, declared effective by the SEC, or make offerings pursuant to existing registration statements; we will not be able to make an offering to any purchasers not qualifying as "accredited investors" under certain "private placement" rules of the SEC under Regulation D; we will not be eligible to use a "short form" registration statement on Form S-3 for a period of at least 12 months after the time we become current in our periodic and current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; we will not be able to deliver the requisite annual report and proxy statement to our stockholders to hold our annual stockholders meeting; our employees cannot be granted stock options, nor will they be able to exercise stock options registered on Form S-8, because Form S-8 would not be available to us; and our common stock may be delisted from 15 Table of Contents The Nasdaq Stock Market. These restrictions may impair our ability to raise funds in the public markets, should we desire to do so, and to attract and retain employees. The Review and resulting restatement, SEC and U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) investigations and other investigations, legal and administrative proceedings have increased our costs and could result in fines, injunctions, orders, and penalties which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. We are involved in ongoing material legal proceedings. See "Part I—Item 3—Legal Proceedings." These proceedings and other legal actions may harm our business or liquidity in the future. The actions currently pending result primarily from matters relating to our restatement and Review and from intellectual property related litigation and claims. We have incurred substantial cost and expenses for legal and accounting services due to the Review and resulting SEC and DOJ investigations. These matters will likely continue to divert our management's time and attention and cause us to continue to incur substantial costs and expenses. Such investigations can also lead to fines or injunctions or orders with respect to future activities. We could incur substantial additional costs to defend and resolve litigation, investigations or proceedings arising out of or related to these matters. In addition, we could be exposed to enforcement or other actions with respect to these matters by the SEC's Division of Enforcement, the DOJ or other federal or state agencies. At this point, we are unable to predict the duration, scope or result of these investigations or whether any of these agencies will commence any legal action. Any such investigations may result in us being subject to criminal and civil penalties and other remedial measures, which could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. In connection with our pending legal proceedings, including any further litigation that is pursued or other relief sought by persons asserting claims for damages allegedly resulting from or based on the restatement or related events, we will incur defense costs that may exceed our insurance coverage. We may also incur costs if the insurers of our directors and our liability insurers deny coverage for the costs and expenses related to any litigation. Many of our pending legal proceedings are in the early stages and we cannot predict their outcomes. However, irrespective of the outcomes, we may incur substantial costs, including defense and indemnity costs, and these matters may divert the attention of our technical and management personnel, which could materially harm our business. Moreover, if we do not prevail in any such actions, we could be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs. Adverse outcomes or other developments during the course of litigation or other proceedings may harm our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity as well as investors' perception of our business, any of which could harm our stock price. Our failure to comply with extensive government regulations could subject us to penalties and materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our medical device products and operations are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and various other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. Government regulations and foreign requirements specific to medical devices are wide ranging and govern, among other things: design, development and manufacturing; testing, labeling and storage; clinical trials; product safety; marketing, sales and distribution; pre-market clearance and approval; record keeping procedures; advertising and promotions; recalls and field corrective actions; post-market surveillance, including reporting of deaths or serious injuries and malfunctions that, if they were to recur, could lead to death or serious injury; and product import and export. The FDA and other governmental authorities have broad enforcement powers, and our failure to comply with these regulatory requirements could result in governmental agencies or a court taking 16 Table of Contents action, including any of the following, which would adversely affect our business: issuing public warning letters to us; imposing fines and penalties on us; obtaining an injunction preventing us from manufacturing or selling our products; bringing civil or criminal charges against us; delaying the introduction of our products into the market; delaying pending requests for clearance or approval of new uses or modifications to our existing products; recalling, detaining or seizing our products; or withdrawing or denying approvals or clearances for our products. If we fail to comply with complex and rapidly evolving laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties, be required to pay substantial damages and make significant changes to our products and operations. During the past several years, the U.S. health care industry has been subject to an increase in governmental regulation at both the federal and state levels. We are subject to numerous federal and state regulations. As part of our internal compliance program, we review our sales and marketing materials, contracts and programs with counsel, and require employees and marketing representatives to participate in regular training. We also have adopted and train our personnel on the code of conduct for Interactions with Health Care Professionals promulgated by the Advanced Medical Technology Association, or AdvaMed, a leading trade association representing medical device manufacturers. Most recently, we amended our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the "Code of Ethics") in August 2009. Originally adopted in 2004 to qualify as a "code of ethics" within the meaning of Section 406 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Code was amended to qualify as well as a "code of conduct" under the current Federal Sentencing Guidelines and "Compliance Program Guidance for Pharmaceutical Manufacturers" 68 FR 23731 (May 5, 2003) applicable to medical device companies as published by the Office of Inspector General for the Department of Human Services. The Code of Ethics applies to all of our directors, officers, employees and agents. It also serves as an essential element of our Corporate Compliance Program, as announced in August 2009. However, we can give no assurances that our compliance program will ensure that the Company is in compliance with existing or future applicable laws and regulations. If our compliance program fails to meet its objectives, or if we otherwise fail to comply with existing or future applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties. We devote significant operational and managerial resources to comply with these laws and regulations. Different interpretations and enforcement policies of these laws and regulations could subject our current practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make significant changes to our products and operations. In addition, we cannot predict the impact of future legislation and regulatory changes on our business or assure you that we will be able to obtain or maintain the regulatory approvals required to operate our business. Our accounting policies and methods require management to make judgments and estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain, which may result in our actual results differing significantly from those generated by our judgments and estimates. Our accounting policies and methods require management to exercise judgment in applying many of these accounting policies and methods so that these policies and methods comply with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S., or GAAP, and reflect management's judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition and results of operations. See Note 3, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" in the notes to the consolidated financial statements for a description of our significant accounting policies. 17 Table of Contents The accounting policies we have identified as critical to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations are described in "Part II—Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates." We believe these policies are critical because they require management to make particularly subjective or complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain at the end of a period and because of the likelihood that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. Due to the complexity of these critical accounting policies, our accounting methods relating to these policies involve substantial use of estimates. Estimates are inherently imperfect predictors of actual results because they are based on assumptions, including assumptions about future events. Our estimates may not include assumptions that reflect very positive or very negative market conditions and, accordingly, our actual results could differ significantly from those generated by our estimates. As a result, the estimates that we use to prepare our financial statements, as well as our estimates of our future results of operations, may be significantly inaccurate. We may be the subject of federal and state government civil and criminal enforcement efforts against health care companies, which could result in civil and/or criminal penalties which could have a material negative impact on our operations and financial condition. In addition to uncertainties surrounding coverage policies, both federal and state government agencies have heightened civil and criminal enforcement efforts against health care companies, as well as their executives and managers. These efforts generally relate to a wide variety of matters, including referral and billing practices, and implicate a variety of state and federal laws, including state insurance fraud provisions, common law fraud theories, as well as both state and federal fraud-and-abuse, anti-kickback, and false claims statutes. Although we no longer directly bill any payor, some of our prior activities could become the subject of additional governmental investigations or inquiries. If we do not comply with the laws and regulations relevant to our business, we could be subject to civil and/or criminal penalties which could have a material negative impact on our operations and financial condition. We are, and may in the future be, subject to intellectual property claims, which are costly to defend, could require us to pay damages and could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. The medical device industry has been characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights, and companies in the medical device industry have employed intellectual property litigation to gain a competitive advantage. We cannot assure you that we will not become subject to additional patent infringement claims or other litigation, including interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, to determine the priority of inventions. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property lawsuits generally, USPTO reexamination and interference proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings, are costly and time-consuming. If other parties violate our proprietary rights, further litigation may be necessary to enforce our patents, to protect trade secrets or know-how we own or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Any litigation or reexamination or interference proceedings will be costly and cause significant diversion of effort by our technical and management personnel. An adverse determination in existing litigation, additional litigation or reexamination or interference proceedings to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties or require us to cease using certain technology. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that we could obtain necessary licenses on satisfactory terms, if at all. Adverse determinations in judicial or administrative proceedings or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products, which would 18 Table of Contents have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future growth prospects. Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects. Our ability to compete effectively depends in part on developing and maintaining the proprietary aspects of our Coblation technology and our acquired technologies. We believe that our issued patents are directed at the core technology used in our soft-tissue surgery systems, including both multi-electrode and single electrode configurations of our disposable devices, as well as the use of Coblation technology in specific surgical procedures. In addition, we believe that our issued patents are directed at many of the core features of our acquired technologies from Opus, Parallax, Atlantech and ATI. Our earliest Coblation patents begin to expire in 2012. The majority of our royalty income is associated with licenses that include core Coblation patent rights which extend through the end of 2014. There is no assurance that the patents we have obtained, or any patents we may obtain as a result of our pending U.S. or international patent applications, will provide any competitive advantages for our products. We also cannot assure investors that those patents will not be successfully challenged, invalidated or circumvented prior to their expiration. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that competitors, many of which have substantial resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, have not already applied for or obtained, or will not seek to apply for and obtain, patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use and sell our products either in the U.S. or in international markets. In Sports Medicine, many of our competitors have licensed our technology for limited fields of use. Patent applications are maintained in secrecy for a period after filing. We may not be aware of all of the patents and patent applications potentially adverse to our interests. A number of medical device and other companies, universities and research institutions have filed patent applications or have issued patents relating to monopolar and/or bipolar electrosurgical methods and apparatus. We have received, and we may receive in the future, notifications of potential conflicts of existing patents, pending patent applications and challenges to the validity of existing patents. In addition, we have become aware of, and may become aware of in the future, patent applications and issued patents that relate to our products and/or the surgical applications and issued patents and, in some cases, have obtained internal and/or external opinions of counsel regarding the relevance of certain issued patents to our products. We do not believe that our products currently infringe any valid and enforceable claims of the issued patents that we have reviewed. However, if third-party patents or patent applications contain claims infringed by our technology and such claims are ultimately determined to be valid, we may not be able to obtain licenses to those patents at a reasonable cost, if at all, or be able to develop or obtain alternative technology. Our inability to do either would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects. We cannot assure investors that we will not have to defend ourselves in court against allegations of infringement of third-party patents, or that such defense would be successful. In addition to patents, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how, which we seek to protect, in part, through confidentiality and proprietary information agreements. We require our key employees and consultants to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of an employment or consulting relationship with us. These agreements generally provide that all confidential information, developed or made known to the individual during the course of the individual's relationship with us, is to be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties. These agreements also generally provide that inventions conceived by the individual in the course of rendering services to us shall be our exclusive property. We cannot assure investors that employees will not breach such agreements, that we would have adequate remedies for any breach or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known to or be independently developed by competitors. 19 Table of Contents We will require a significant amount of cash to fund our working capital needs and planned expenditures. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. In September 2009, we terminated our revolving Credit Agreement, which was in default. In the absence of a credit facility as a possible source of liquidity, our ability to meet our working capital needs and to fund capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash from operations and effectively manage our cash balances. This is subject to general economic, financial, competitive and other factors that may be beyond our control. We are unable to predict the outcome of ongoing litigation and investigations to which we are a party and these matters could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and cash flows. See "Part I—Item 3—Legal Proceedings." We expect that our cash flows from operations together with cash on hand will be sufficient to satisfy our short-term and, excluding the uncertainty related to the ongoing litigation and investigations to which we are a party, long-term normal operating liquidity requirements; however, we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations in an amount sufficient to enable us to fund our other liquidity needs. As a result, from time to time, we may be required to seek financing from alternative sources. In light of the current capital and credit market disruption and volatility, we cannot assure you that such alternative funding will be available to us on terms and conditions acceptable to us, or at all. In addition, we maintain deposit accounts with numerous financial institutions around the world in amounts that exceed applicable governmental deposit insurance levels. As a result of the same considerations that led to the termination of our Credit Agreement, we were required to transition our cash management services in the U.S. to another financial institution, which may result in significant business disruption if not effectively transitioned. While we actively monitor our deposit relationships, the unanticipated failure of a financial institution in which we maintain deposits could cause us to suffer losses that could materially harm our results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to keep pace with technological change or successfully develop new products with wide market acceptance, which could cause us to lose business to competitors. We compete in a market characterized by rapidly changing technology. We may not be able to keep pace with technology or to develop viable new products. Our future financial performance will depend in part on our ability to develop and manufacture new products in a cost-effective manner, to introduce these products to the market on a timely basis, and to achieve market acceptance of these products. Factors which may result in delays of new product introductions or cancellation of our plans to manufacture and market new products include capital constraints, research and development delays, and delays in acquiring regulatory approvals. Our new products and new product introductions may fail to achieve expected levels of market acceptance. Factors impacting the level of market acceptance include our ability to successfully implement new technologies, the timeliness of our product introductions, our product pricing strategies, our available financial and technological resources for product promotion and development, our ability to show clinical benefit from our products, and the availability of reimbursement for our products as discussed in the risk factor titled "Changes in coverage and reimbursement for procedures using our products could affect physicians" above. The markets for our products are intensely competitive, which may result in our competitors developing technologies and products that are more effective than ours or that make our technologies and products obsolete. Many of our competitors have significantly greater resources and market power than we do. The markets for our current products in our core businesses are intensely competitive. These markets include arthroscopy, spinal surgery and ENT surgery. We cannot assure you that other companies will not succeed in developing technologies and products that are more effective than ours, or that would render our technologies or products obsolete or uncompetitive in these markets. 20 Table of Contents Our primary competitors across all of our operating units consist of Medtronic, Inc., Smith & Nephew, Stryker Corporation, Johnson & Johnson, Cardinal Health/Allegiance, Olympus (also known as Gyrus), Arthrex, Inc. and Cook Medical. These competitors tend to be large, well-financed companies with diverse product lines who may have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and technical resources than we do. Some of these companies offer broad product lines that they may offer as a single package and frequently offer significant price discounts as a competitive tactic. Furthermore, some of our competitors utilize purchasing contracts that link discounts on the purchase of one product to purchases of other products in their broad product lines. Many of the hospitals in the U.S. have purchasing contracts with our competitors. Accordingly, customers may be dissuaded from purchasing our products instead of our competitors' products to the extent the purchase would cause them to lose discounts on our competitors' products. In addition, we are aware of several small companies offering alternative treatments for back pain and other ailments or indications that may indirectly compete with our products. If we were to be unable to continue to compete for any of the above reasons, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects. Modifications to our currently FDA-cleared products may require new regulatory clearance or approvals or require us to recall or cease marketing our current products until clearances or approvals are obtained. After a device receives 510(k) premarket notification clearance from the FDA, any modification that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in the intended use of the device, technology, materials, packaging, and certain manufacturing process may require a new 510(k) clearance or PMA approval. The FDA requires every manufacturer to make the determination regarding the need for a new 510(k) clearance or PMA approval in the first instance, but the FDA may review any manufacturer's decision and may retroactively require the manufacturer to submit a premarket notification requesting 510(k) clearance or an application for PMA approval. The FDA also can require the manufacturer to cease marketing and/or recall the modified device until 510(k) clearance or approval is obtained. FDA guidance documents define when to submit premarket notifications for new or modified devices. These guidance documents also define modifications for which a new 510(k) is not required. We have modified some of our marketed devices, and have determined that in certain instances new 510(k) clearances or PMA approvals are not required. No assurance can be given that the FDA would agree with any of our decisions not to seek 510(k) clearance or PMA approval. If the FDA requires us to cease marketing and/or recall the modified device until we obtain a new 510(k) clearance or PMA approval, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects could be materially adversely affected. Failure to obtain FDA clearance or approval for our products could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and future growth prospects. In the U.S., before we can market a new medical device, or a new use of, or claim for, or significant modification to, an existing product, we must first receive either premarket clearance under Section 510(k) of the U.S. Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, or approval of a Premarket Approval, or PMA, submission from the FDA, unless an exemption applies. In the 510(k) clearance process, the FDA must determine that a proposed device is "substantially equivalent" to a device legally on the market, known as a "predicate" device, with respect to intended use, technology and safety and effectiveness, in order to clear the proposed device for marketing. Clinical data is sometimes required to support substantial equivalence. The PMA approval pathway requires an applicant to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the device based, in part, on data obtained in clinical trials. Both of these processes can be expensive and lengthy and entail significant user fees, unless exempt. The FDA's 510(k) clearance process usually takes from three to twelve months, but it 21 Table of Contents can last longer. The process of obtaining PMA approval is much more costly and uncertain than the 510(k) clearance process. It generally takes from one to three years, or even longer, from the time the PMA application is submitted to the FDA until an approval is obtained. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain FDA clearance or approval for any of our new products on a timely basis, or at all. Failure to obtain FDA clearance or approval for our new products could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and future growth prospects. We may be subject to fines, penalties or injunctions if we are determined to be promoting the use of our products for unapproved or "off-label" uses, which would adversely affect our financial condition. Our promotional materials and training methods must comply with FDA and other applicable laws and regulations, including the prohibition of the promotion of a medical device for a use that has not been cleared or approved by FDA. Use of a device outside its cleared or approved indications is known as "off-label" use. Physicians may use our products off-label, as the FDA does not restrict or regulate a physician's choice of treatment within the practice of medicine. However, if the FDA determines that our promotional materials or training constitutes promotion of an off-label use, it could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory or enforcement actions, including the issuance of an untitled letter, a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they consider our promotional or training materials to constitute promotion of an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. In that event, our reputation could be damaged and adoption of the products would be impaired. Although our policy is to refrain from statements that could be considered off-label promotion of our products, the FDA or another regulatory agency could disagree and conclude that we have engaged in off-label promotion. In addition, the off-label use of our products may increase the risk of injury to patients, and, in turn, the risk of product liability claims. Product liability claims are expensive to defend and could divert our management's attention and result in substantial damage awards against us. Our products may in the future be subject to product recalls that could harm our reputation, business operations and financial results, and if our products cause or contribute to a death or serious injury, we will be subject to medical device reporting regulations, which can result in voluntary corrective actions or FDA enforcement actions. The FDA and similar foreign governmental authorities have the authority to require the recall of commercialized products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture or in the event that a product poses an unacceptable risk to health. Manufacturers may, under their own initiative, recall a product if any material deficiency in a device is found. A government-mandated or voluntary recall by us or one of our distributors could occur as a result of an unacceptable risk to health, component failures, manufacturing errors, design or labeling defects or other deficiencies and issues. Recalls of any of our products would divert managerial and financial resources and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Any of these sanctions could impair our ability to produce our products in a cost-effective and timely manner in order to meet our customers' demands. We may also be required to bear other costs or take other actions that may have a negative impact on our future sales and our ability to generate profits. Further, under the FDA medical device reporting regulations, or MDR, we are required to report to the FDA any incident in which our product may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or in which our product malfunctioned and, if the malfunction were to recur, would likely cause or contribute to death or serious injury. Any adverse event involving our products could result in future voluntary corrective actions, such as recalls or customer notifications, or agency action, such as inspection, mandatory recall or other enforcement action. Any corrective action, whether voluntary or 22 Table of Contents involuntary, as well as defending ourselves in a lawsuit, will require the dedication of our time and capital, distract management from operating our business, and may harm our reputation and financial results. If we or our third-party suppliers fail to comply with FDA's Quality System Regulations, our manufacturing operations could be interrupted and our sales and our ability to generate profits could suffer. We and certain of our third-party suppliers are required to comply with the FDA's Quality System Regulation, or QSR, which covers the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, sterilization, storage and shipping of our products. We and our suppliers are also subject to the regulations of foreign jurisdictions regarding the manufacturing process if we market our products in these jurisdictions. The FDA enforces the QSR through periodic and unannounced inspections of manufacturing facilities. If our facilities or those of our suppliers fail to take satisfactory corrective action in response to an adverse QSR inspection, the FDA could take enforcement action, including any of the following sanctions: untitled letters; warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties; customer notifications or repair, replacement, refunds, recall, detention or seizure of our products; operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production; refusing or delaying our requests for 510(k) clearance or premarket approval of new products or modified products; withdrawing 510(k) clearances on PMA approvals that have already been granted; refusal to grant export approval for our products; or criminal prosecution. Any of these sanctions could impair our ability to produce our products in a cost-effective and timely manner in order to meet our customers' demands. We may also be required to bear other costs or take other actions that may have a negative impact on our future sales and our ability to generate profits. Failure to market our products that use Coblation technology could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects. We commercially introduced our Coblation technology product lines in December 1995. Our Coblation technology product lines accounted for more than two-thirds of our product sales in 2009 and we are highly dependent on these sales. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to manufacture arthroscopy products based on our Coblation technology in commercial quantities at acceptable costs, or that we will be able to continue to market such products successfully. To achieve increasing disposable device sales over time, we believe we must continue to penetrate the market in other orthopedic procedures, expand physicians' education with respect to Coblation technology, and continue working on new product development efforts. Moreover, our ability to market our products depends on clinical reports and recommendations by influential surgeons supporting our Coblation technology in certain key procedures. We believe that surgeons will not use our products unless they determine, based on experience, clinical data and other factors, that our products are an attractive alternative to conventional means of tissue ablation. We believe that if recommendations and endorsements by influential surgeons cease or long-term data do not support our current claims of efficacy, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects could be materially adversely affected. Changes in coverage and reimbursement for procedures using our products could affect use of our devices and our future revenue. The demand for our products is highly dependent on the policies of third-party payors such as Medicare, Medicaid, private insurance, and managed care organizations that reimburse our customers when they use our products. Failure by physicians, hospitals and other users of our products to obtain 23 Table of Contents sufficient coverage and reimbursement from healthcare payors for procedures in which our products are used, or adverse changes in environmental and private third-party payors' policies toward coverage and reimbursement for such procedures would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects. In the U.S., third-party payors continue to implement initiatives that restrict the use of certain technologies to those that meet certain clinical evidentiary requirements. We are aware of several third-party payors in the U.S., including governmental payors such as Medicare and Medicaid and private health insurance companies, who consider Coblation technology used in certain procedures to treat certain clinical conditions to be experimental or investigational. These payors have developed policies that deny coverage and therefore make no reimbursement for such procedures using our devices. Procedures using our devices that are not covered by some payors include such procedures as plasma disc decompression, or Coblation nucleoplasty, as well as Coblation or radiofrequency volumetric tissue reduction for (1) removing soft tissue during arthroscopic surgery, (2) hypertrophied nasal turbinates for the treatment of chronic nasal obstruction or obstructive sleep apnea and (3) soft palate and tongue for the treatment of obstructive sleep apnea. However, some payors in the U.S. provide coverage and reimbursement for Coblation tonsillectomy for certain clinical indications and percutaneous vertebroplasty for patients that meet specified criteria. In addition, some payors are moving toward a managed care system and control their health care costs by limiting authorizations for surgical procedures, including elective procedures using our devices. Failure to obtain favorable payor policies could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. In addition to uncertainties surrounding coverage policies, third-party payors from time to time update reimbursement amounts and also revise the methodologies used to determine reimbursement amounts. This includes annual updates to payments to ambulatory surgical centers and physicians for procedures using our products. Because reimbursement for our products generally is included as part of the payments for procedures, these updates directly impact the amounts recognized for the costs of our products. An example of payment updates is the Medicare program updates to physician payments, which is done on an annual basis using a prescribed formula that results in lowered payments for physician services. In the past, Congress has passed legislation to prevent certain reductions in Medicare payments to physicians. Unless Congress does so for 2010, the prescribed formula would result in a 21.5 percent reduction in aggregate Medicare payments to physicians. Legislative proposals have been introduced to revise the statutory formula and prevent the rate reduction. We are unable to predict, however, whether the legislation would be passed or what future changes will be made to compute Medicare payments or reimbursement amounts used by other third-party health care payors. Further, as part of the Obama Administration's efforts to pass extensive federal healthcare reforms, there have already been several new legislative initiatives which could have a negative impact on the demand for our products and our business. It is unclear at this time how these initiatives would influence policies on coverage and reimbursement. Nor can we predict whether the proposed reform measures, if adopted, or any federal legislation enacted in the future will have on our revenues, profit margins, profitability, operating cash flows and results of operations. If we obtain the necessary international regulatory approvals, market acceptance of our products in international markets would be dependent, in part, upon the availability of coverage and reimbursement within prevailing health care payment systems. Reimbursement and health care payment systems in international markets vary significantly by country and include both government-sponsored health care and private insurance. We intend to seek international reimbursement approvals, although we cannot assure investors that any such approvals will be obtained in a timely manner, if at all. We are also unable to predict at this time the impact on our business of any future changes, if any, that are made to coverage and reimbursement policies by government action in key international markets. 24 Table of Contents Product liability claims could adversely impact our financial condition and impair our reputation. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks which are inherent in the design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices. In addition, many of our products are designed to be implanted in the human body for long periods of time. Component failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information with respect to these or other products we manufacture or sell could result in an unsafe condition or injury to a patient. The occurrence of such a problem could result in product liability claims or a recall of one or more of our products, which could ultimately result in the removal from the body of such products and claims regarding associated costs and damages, which could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, our ability to attract and retain customers for our products, and future growth prospects. We cannot assure you that our current product liability insurance coverage limits are adequate to protect us from any liabilities we might incur in connection with the development, manufacture and sale of our products. In addition, we may require increased product liability coverage as products are successfully commercialized in additional applications. Product liability insurance is expensive and in the future may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, our ability to attract and retain customers for our products, and future growth prospects. We are dependent on key suppliers, and supply disruptions could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects. Some of the key components of our products are purchased from single vendors. If the supply of materials from a single source supplier were interrupted, replacement or alternative sources might not be readily obtainable due to the regulatory and other requirements applicable to our manufacturing operations or the availability of certain product drawings and/or specifications. A new or supplemental filing with applicable regulatory authorities may require us to obtain clearance prior to our marketing a product containing new material. This clearance process may take a substantial period of time and we cannot assure investors that we would be able to obtain the necessary regulatory approval for a new material to be used in our products on a timely basis, if at all. This could create supply disruptions that would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects. In addition, we primarily use a subcontractor located in Costa Rica to sterilize our disposable devices. We have the ability to use alternative sterilization service providers for most of our products. If our Costa Rica sterilization service were to be disrupted for any reason, we would be required to use alternative sources with longer processing and logistics cycles, which could lead to a disruption in our ability to supply products for a period of time. We are dependent on warehouses in the U.S. and Belgium owned and operated by DHL Worldwide Express, Inc. If our ability to use these warehouses is disrupted, we may be unable to supply products to our customers on a timely basis, which could materially adversely affect our business. The complex nature of the underlying support technologies utilized to exchange critical product information with third party transportation and logistics providers, such as "Electronic Data Interchange," has, at times, caused disruptions in our ability to deliver products to customers on a timely basis. Failure of these supporting systems could impair our business for the duration of the failure. 25 Table of Contents Our business is susceptible to risks associated with international operations. International operations are generally subject to a number of risks, including: protectionist laws, business practices, licenses, tariffs, and other trade barriers that favor local competition; multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations, such as tax laws regulating intercompany transactions; difficulties in managing foreign operations, including staffing, seasonality of operations, dependence on local vendors, and collecting accounts receivable; loss of proprietary information due to piracy, misappropriation or weaker laws regarding intellectual property protection; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; and political and economic instability. We derived 26.8 percent, 26.0 percent and 24.2 percent of our total product sales for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, from customers located outside of the Americas. We expect international revenue to remain a significant percentage of total revenue and we believe that we must continue to expand our international sales activities to be successful. Historically, a majority of our international revenues and costs have been denominated in foreign currencies, and we expect future international revenues and costs will be denominated in foreign currencies. Our international sales growth will be limited if we are unable to establish appropriate foreign operations, expand international sales channel management and support organizations, hire additional personnel, develop relationships with international sales representatives, and establish relationships with additional distributors. In that case, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Even if we are able to successfully expand international operations, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products. We require foreign regulatory approvals to market and sell our products in other countries. Failure to obtain and maintain these regulatory approvals would harm our ability to generate revenue. To be able to market and sell our products in other countries, we must obtain regulatory approvals and comply with the regulations of those countries. These regulations, including the requirements for approvals and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. Obtaining and maintaining foreign regulatory approvals is expensive, and we cannot be certain that we will receive regulatory approvals in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products. If we fail to obtain or maintain regulatory approval in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, our ability to generate revenue will be harmed. Disruptions or other adverse developments at our Costa Rica facility could materially adversely affect our business. Our high-volume disposable devices and controllers are manufactured at our Company-owned facility in an industrial park in San Jose, Costa Rica. If our Costa Rica facility is not able to produce sufficient quantities of our controllers and products with adequate quality, or if our Costa Rica operations are disrupted for any reason, then we may be forced to locate alternative manufacturing facilities, including facilities operated by third parties. Disruptions may include, but are not limited to: changes in the legal and regulatory environment in Costa Rica; slowdowns or work stoppages within the Costa Rican customs authorities; acts of God; and other issues associated with significant operations that are remote from our headquarters and operations centers. Additionally, continued growth in product sales could outpace the ability of our Costa Rican operation to supply ordered products on a timely basis or cause us to take actions within our supply and manufacturing operations which increase costs, complexity and timing. Locating alternative facilities would be time-consuming, would disrupt our production and cause shipment delays and could result in damage to our reputation and profitability. Additionally, we cannot assure you that alternative manufacturing facilities would offer the same cost structure as our Costa Rica facility. 26 Table of Contents Future changes in technology or market conditions could result in adjustments to our recorded asset balance for intangible assets, including goodwill, resulting in additional charges that could significantly impact our operating results. Our balance sheet includes significant intangible assets, including goodwill and other acquired intangible assets. The determination of related estimated useful lives and whether these assets are impaired involves significant judgments. Our ability to accurately predict future cash flows related to these intangible assets may be adversely affected by unforeseen and uncontrollable events. In the highly competitive medical device industry, new technologies could impair the value of our intangible assets if they create market conditions that adversely affect the competitiveness of our products. We test our goodwill for impairment in the fourth quarter of each year, but we also test goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment at any time when there is a change in circumstances that indicates that the carrying value of these assets may be impaired. Any future determination that these assets are carried at greater than their fair value could result in substantial non-cash impairment charges, which could significantly impact our reported operating results. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. Our business has grown in size and complexity over the past few years as a result of internal growth. This growth and increase in complexity have placed significant demands on financial and managerial controls, reporting systems and procedures. In addition, we continue to explore ways to extend our target markets. We will need to continue to improve our financial and managerial controls, reporting systems and procedures as we continue to grow and expand our business. To meet such demands, we intend to continue to invest in new technology, make other capital expenditures, develop management and operating systems, and, where appropriate, hire, train, supervise and manage employees with expertise to handle these particular demands. If we fail to efficiently manage operations in a way that accommodates continued internal growth, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. Delaware law and provisions in our charter could make the acquisition of our company by another company more difficult, which could adversely affect our stock price. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of our company. This could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws allow us to issue preferred stock without any vote or further action by the stockholders, to eliminate the right of stockholders to act by written consent without a meeting, to specify advance notice and other procedures for director nominations by stockholders and submission of other proposals for consideration at stockholder meetings, and to eliminate cumulative voting in the election of directors. Certain provisions of Delaware law applicable to us could also delay or make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us, including Section 203, which prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years unless certain conditions are met. The procedures required for director nominations and stockholder proposals and Delaware law could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of the company, including without limitation, discouraging a proxy contest or making more difficult the acquisition of a substantial block of our common stock. These provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation, and our bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or management of the Company, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our stock. 27 Table of Contents One Equity Partners, a private equity firm, may have influence on our major corporate decisions. On September 1, 2009, an affiliate of OEP acquired our Series A Preferred Stock. See "Item 7—MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources" for a description of this transaction. As a result of this transaction, OEP became the largest beneficial owner of our stock. At this time, assuming conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock to our common stock, including make-whole amounts as defined in the Certificate of Designation for the Series A Preferred Stock but excluding outstanding options and warrants held by other parties, OEP would represent an ownership interest of approximately 17.8 percent of our voting stock. In connection with this transaction, we expanded the Board of Directors to eight members and granted OEP the right to nominate two directors. Effective September 1, 2009, Messrs. Gregory Belinfanti and Christian Ahrens, both Partners of OEP, were appointed to our Board of Directors. Consequently, OEP may have the ability to influence our Board of Directors and matters requiring stockholder approval, subject to the restrictions placed on OEP by the Securities Purchase Agreement, including without limitation OEP's agreement to vote for any director nominated by the Board and to comply with the terms of the standstill. From and after the first anniversary of the investment OEP, is free to convert the Series A Preferred Stock into our common stock and, subject to the registration requirements of the federal securities laws, dispose of such stock, which could result in a decrease of the market price of our common stock, particularly if such dispositions are made in the open market and are substantial. We may not be able to comply with the redemption rights, registration rights, and other rights of our holders of Series A Preferred Stock and our obligations under the Registration Rights Agreement with our holders of Series A Preferred Stock. After September 1, 2014, or in connection with a change in control, the holders of our Series A Preferred Stock may require us to redeem any or all outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock at the liquidation preference of such redeemed Series A Preferred Stock including any applicable make-whole adjustment. We may not have sufficient liquidity to comply with the redemption right of our holders of Series A Preferred Stock at that time if such right is exercised. Alternatively, if we are able to comply with the redemption right of the holders of our Series A Preferred Stock, we may have insufficient remaining liquidity to conduct our business, which would materially adversely affect our business, liquidity, and financial condition. In addition, pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement between us and the holders of our Series A Preferred Stock, we agreed to use our best efforts to become current in our SEC periodic reporting requirements and thereafter file a registration statement on Form S-1 prior to September 1, 2010, to register the resale of the Common Stock underlying the Series A Preferred Stock. If a registration statement is not timely filed or does not become effective in accordance with the requirements of the Registration Rights Agreement, a Registration Default, then we shall pay the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock 2.00 percent per annum of the original liquidation preference of the Series A Preferred Stock, accruing from the date of the Registration Default until the Registration Default is cured. We are dependent upon key management, technical personnel and advisors, and loss of our key personnel and advisors could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The loss of the services of one or more key employees or consultants could have a material adverse effect on us. Our success also depends on our ability to attract and retain additional highly qualified management and technical personnel. We face intense competition for qualified personnel, any of whom often receive competing employment offers. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to attract and retain such personnel. The process related to the restatement of our financial 28 Table of Contents results has impacted the amounts, timing and forms of employee compensation. These impacts could materially impact our ability to attract and retain essential managerial and technical personnel. Loss of key personnel would materially impact our ability to meet our financial and operational objectives and could have a material adverse effect on our business and our results of operations. Circumstances associated with our integration of acquisitions may adversely affect our operating results. An element of our growth strategy has been and in the future may be the pursuit of acquisitions of other businesses that expand or complement our existing products and distribution channels. Integrating businesses, however, involves a number of special risks, including: the possibility that management attention may be diverted from regular business concerns by the need to integrate operations; unforeseen costs, difficulties and liabilities in integrating our and the acquired company's employees, operations and systems; accounting, regulatory, or compliance issues that could arise in connection with, or as a result of, the acquisition of the acquired company; challenges in retaining our customers or the customers of the acquired company following the acquisition; the difficulty of incorporating acquired technology and rights into our products and services; and impairment charges if our acquisitions are not successful due to these risks. In addition, we may incur debt to finance future acquisitions and may issue securities in connection with future acquisitions, which may dilute the holdings of our current and future stockholders. If we are unable to successfully complete and integrate strategic acquisitions in a timely manner, our business, financial condition or operating results may be adversely affected. Our operating results may fluctuate. In our experience, our results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period. Adverse fluctuations due to these factors may adversely affect our level of revenues and profitability, results of operations, financial condition, and future growth prospects in the short and long term: the introduction of new product lines and increased penetration in existing applications; achievement of research and development milestones; the amount and timing of expenditures and the receipt and recognition of license fees; and timing of the receipt of orders and product shipments, absence of a backlog of orders, and the rate of product returns. Factors may make the market price of our stock highly volatile. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate substantially in the future. Investors may be unable to resell our common stock at or above their purchase price. This volatility may subject our stock price to material fluctuations due to the factors discussed in this "Item 1A—Risk Factors" section, and other factors including market reaction to acquisitions and trends in sales, marketing, and research and development; rumors or dissemination of false information; changes in coverage or earnings estimates by analysts; our ability to meet analysts' or market expectations; and sales of common stock by existing stockholders. As previously reported, on September 1, 2009, One Equity Partners, or OEP, a private equity firm, and its affiliates own a significant amount of our Series A 3.00% Convertible Preferred Stock, or the Series A Preferred Stock. From the first anniversary of its investment, OEP may convert the Series A Preferred Stock into our common stock and, subject to the registration requirements of the federal securities laws, dispose of such stock, which could result in a decrease of the market price of our common stock, particularly if such dispositions are made in the open market and are substantial. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 29 Table of Contents 