Risk Factors The following risk factors, in addition to other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Form 20-F, should be considered carefully. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operation and liquidity. The trading price of our Ordinary Shares could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks relating to our financial results and capital structure: We require a significant amount of cash to satisfy our debt obligations. If we fail to generate sufficient cash flow from operations, we may need to renegotiate or refinance our debt, obtain additional financing, postpone capital expenditures or sell assets. As of December 31, 2014, we had $760,000 in long-term debt (including current maturities of $570,000) and $4.3 million of short term bank loans drawn under a revolving credit facility. We depend mainly on cash generated by continuing operating activities to make payments on our debt. We cannot assure you that we will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to make the scheduled payments on our debt. Our ability to meet our debt obligations will depend on whether we can successfully implement our business strategy, as well as on economic, financial, competitive and technical factors (See “Item 5B. Liquidity and Capital Resources” below). Some of the factors are beyond our control, such as economic conditions in the markets where we operate or intend to operate, changes in our customers’ demand for products that we sell, and pressure from existing and new competitors. Also, because part of our loans bear interest at floating rates, we are susceptible to an increase in interest rates (See “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” below). If we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to make scheduled payments on our debt obligations, we may need to renegotiate the terms of our debt, refinance our debt, obtain additional financing, delay planned capital expenditures or sell assets. - 5 - If our lenders decline to renegotiate the terms of our debt in these circumstances, the lenders could declare all amounts borrowed and all amounts due to them under the agreements due and payable. We have had a history of losses and our future levels of sales and ability to achieve profitability are unpredictable. As of December 31, 2014, we had an accumulated deficit of $71 million. We ended year 2014 with a loss of $433,000, and year 2013 at breakeven. We had net losses in each of the fiscal years 2009-2012. Our ability to maintain and improve future levels of sales and achieve profitability depends on many factors, which include: ● delivering products in a timely manner; ● successfully implementing our business strategy; ● increased demand for existing products; and ● controlling costs. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet our challenges and to achieve profitability in the future or that the level of historic sales will continue in the future or that our net losses will not increase in the future. We may be unable to maintain our gross profit margins. Our sales and profitability may vary in any given year, and from quarter to quarter. In order to increase sales or to enter into new markets with new products or due to competition we may find it necessary to decrease prices in order to be competitive. Additionally, our gross profit margin tends to fluctuate mainly due to variety and mix of products and changing suppliers prices. We may not be able to maintain current gross profit margins in the future, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend on one bank which provides us most of our credit. We rely on Bank Leumi le-Israel Ltd. (“Bank Leumi”) to provide most of the credit facilities to our subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2014, we had $4.2 million drawn under a Bank Leumi short term revolving credit facility. Our assets are subject to a security interest in favor of Bank Leumi. Our failure to repay the bank loan, if required, could result in legal action against us, which could require the sale of all of our assets. The repayment of our debt to Bank Leumi is secured by a first priority floating charge on all of our Company’s assets, present and future as they may be changing from time to time, and by a first priority fixed charge on all of the Company’s goodwill and its shares of our Israeli subsidiaries, BOS - Dimex Ltd. (“Dimex”) and BOS - Odem Ltd. (“Odem”). In addition, the Company and its Israeli subsidiaries entered into a series of intercompany guarantees in favor of Bank Leumi. - 6 - If we are unable to repay the bank loan when due, the bank could foreclose on our assets in order to recover the amounts due. Any such action might require us to curtail or cease operations (See “Item 5B. Liquidity and Capital Resources” below). Our debt obligations may hinder our growth and put us at a competitive disadvantage. Our debt obligations require us to use a substantial portion of our operating cash flow to repay the principal and interest on our loans. This reduces funds available to grow and expand our business, limits our ability to pursue business opportunities and makes us more vulnerable to economic and industry downturns. The existence of debt obligations and covenants also limits our ability to obtain additional financing on favorable terms. Due to restrictions in our loan agreements, we may not be able to operate our business as we desire. Our loan agreements contain a number of conditions and limitations on the way in which we can operate our business, including limitations on our ability to raise debt, sell or acquire assets and pay dividends. These limitations may force us to pursue less than optimal business strategies or forgo business arrangements, which could have been financially advantageous to our shareholders and us. Our failure to comply with the restrictions contained in our loan agreements could lead to a default under the terms of these agreements (See “Item 5B. Liquidity and Capital Resources”). Risks related to our business: We depend on key personnel for the success of our business. Our success depends, to a significant extent, on the continued active participation of our executive officers and other key personnel. In addition, there is significant competition for employees with technical expertise in our industry. In order to succeed we would need to be able to: ● retain the executive officers and key technical personnel who have been involved in the development of our two operating divisions; ● attract and retain additional qualified personnel to provide technological depth; and ● attract and retain highly skilled personnel in various functions of our business. We cannot make assurances that we will be successful in attracting, integrating, motivating and retaining key personnel. If we are unable to retain our key personnel and attract additional qualified personnel as and when needed, our business may be adversely affected. - 7 - We may be unable to effectively manage our growth and expansion, and as a result, our business results may be adversely affected. Our goal is to grow over the next few years. The management of our growth, if any, will require the continued expansion of our operational and financial control systems, as well as a significant increase in our financial resources and in our delivery and service capabilities. These factors could place a significant strain on our resources. Our growth increases the complexity of our operations, places significant demands on our management and our operational, financial and marketing resources and involves a number of challenges, including: ● managing geographically dispersed operations; ● retaining and motivating key personnel of the acquired businesses; ● assimilating different corporate cultures; ● preserving the business relationships with existing key customers and suppliers; ● maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; and ● introducing joint products and service offerings. In addition, our inability to meet our delivery commitments in a timely manner (as a result of unexpected increases in orders, for example) could result in losses of sales, exposure to contractual penalties, costs or expenses, as well as damage to our reputation in the marketplace. Our inability to manage growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may expand our business through acquisitions that could result in diversion of resources and extra expenses. This could disrupt our business and adversely affect our financial condition. In the past, the Company has made several acquisitions, such as the acquisition of Dimex Systems’ business in March 2008, and the acquisition of BOS Supply Chain Solutions (Summit) Inc. ("Summit"), a New Jersey based company, in October 2007 (Summit filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy relief on November 23, 2010). We may expand our services through additional acquisitions. The negotiation of acquisitions, investments or joint ventures, as well as the integration of acquired or jointly developed businesses or technologies, could divert our management’s time and resources. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate and manage future acquisitions, if they occur. Further, once integrated, acquisitions may not achieve comparable levels of revenues, profitability or productivity as were prior to the acquisitions or otherwise perform as expected. The occurrence of any of these events could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. - 8 - We do not have collateral or credit insurance for all of our customers’ debt, and our allowance for bad debts may increase. Our customers’ debt is derived from sales to customers located primarily in Israel, the Far East and Europe. We do not generally require collateral; however most of our debt of customers outside of Israel is insured against customer nonpayment through the Israeli Credit Insurance Company Ltd. The balance of allowance for bad debt as of December 31, 2014 amounted to $191,000, which was determined by our management to be sufficient. In face of a global economic slowdown or if a local or global recession reoccurs, we may be required to record additional and significant allowances for bad debts. Certain customers of our Supply Chain Solutions division may cancel purchase orders they placed before the delivery. Supply chain programs for the sale of electronic components, including the programs offered by our Supply Chain Solutions division, are designed to accommodate the preference of customers to work with a limited number of suppliers that are able to provide a wide range of electronic components under one order. In the event we are not able to provide all of the components required by a customer, they could elect to terminate the entire order before its delivery. In addition, certain of our individual product orders provide a right of termination prior to delivery. In the event substantial orders are so cancelled, there is no assurance that we will be able to sell the pre-purchased inventory at a profit, or at all. This could result in excess and obsolete inventory and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The electronic components provided by our Supply Chain Solutions division need to meet certain industry standards and for some customers we need to be the manufacturers’ authorized distributors. The main business of our Supply Chain Solutions division is the provision of electronic components to the aerospace and defense industry. These components need to be in compliance with Aviation Standard number 9120 which was adopted by the International Aerospace Quality Group. Noncompliance with these standards could limit our sales. In addition, in face of an increased number of refurbished or non-original components offered in the marketplace, certain customers have begun to insist on purchasing components only directly from authorized distributors of the manufacturers. This could impair our ability to sell components of manufacturers for which we do not serve as authorized dealers and have a substantial adverse effect on our business. Our products may contain defects that may be costly to correct, delay market acceptance of our products, harm our reputation and expose us to litigation. Despite testing by us, errors may be found in our software products. If defects are discovered, we may not be able to successfully correct them in a timely manner, or at all. Defects and failures in our products could result in a loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our products and could damage our reputation. Although our standard license agreement with our customers contains provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims, it is possible that these provisions may not be effective or enforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions, and we could fail to realize revenues and suffer damage to our reputation as a result of, or in defense of, a substantial claim. - 9 - Our products may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. Third parties may assert claims that we have violated a patent, trademark, copyright or other proprietary intellectual property right belonging to them. As is characteristic of our industry, there can be no assurance that our products do not or will not infringe the proprietary rights of third parties, that third parties will not claim infringement by us with respect to patents or other proprietary rights or that we would prevail in any such proceedings. Any infringement claims, whether or not meritorious, could result in costly litigation or arbitration and divert the attention of technical and management personnel. Any adverse outcome in litigation alleging infringement could require us to develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. If, in such situations, we are unable to obtain licenses on acceptable terms, we may be prevented from selling products that infringe such intellectual property of a third party. An unfavorable outcome or settlement regarding one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. The Supply Chain Solutions division engages in a number of business activities governed by U.S. Government Laws and Regulations, which if violated, could subject the Company to civil or criminal fines and penalties. The Supply Chain Solutions division engages in a number of business activities governed by U.S. Government procurement laws and regulations which change frequently, including regulations relating to import-export control and technology transfer restrictions. In addition, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, and similar anti-corruption laws in other jurisdictions, include anti-bribery provisions. If we, or our sales representatives, fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be subject to administrative, civil, or criminal liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may not always be protected in cases of violation of the FCPA or other anti-corruption laws by our employees or third-parties acting on our behalf. A violation of anti-corruption laws by our employees or third-parties during the performance of their obligations for us may have a material adverse effect on our reputation operating results and financial condition. We rely on certain key suppliers. Most of our sales rely on products of certain key suppliers, which we represent on a non-exclusive basis. 33% of our Supply Chain Solutions division purchases in the year 2014 were sourced from five key suppliers and 48% of our RFID and Mobile Solutions division purchases in the year 2014 were sourced from six other key suppliers (including a software supplier). In the year 2013, 34% of our Supply Chain Solutions division purchases were sourced from five key suppliers and 58% of our RFID and Mobile Solutions purchases were sourced from five other key suppliers. In the event that any of our key suppliers becomes unable to fulfill our requirements in a timely manner or if we cease our business relationship with these suppliers, we may experience an interruption in delivery and a decrease in our business until an alternative source of supply can be obtained. - 10 - Future changes in industry standards may have an adverse effect on our business. New industry standards in the aviation and defense industry could cause a portion of our Supply Chain Solutions division’s inventory to become obsolete and unmarketable, which would adversely affect our results of operations. If revenue levels for any quarter fall below our expectations, our results of operations will be adversely affected. Our revenues in any quarter are substantially dependent on orders received and delivered in that quarter. We base our decisions regarding our operating expenses on anticipated revenue trends, and our expenses levels are relatively fixed, or require some time for adjustment. As a result, revenue levels below our expectations will adversely affect our results of operations. The rate of inflation in Israel may negatively impact our costs if it exceeds the rate of devaluation of the NIS against the U.S. dollar. Similarly, the U.S. dollar cost of our operations in Israel will increase to the extent increases in the rate of inflation in Israel are not offset by a devaluation of the NIS in relation to the U.S. dollar. A substantial amount of our revenues is denominated in U.S. dollars (“U.S. dollars” or “dollars") or is U.S. dollar-linked, but we incur a significant portion of our expenses, principally salaries and related personnel expenses in Israel and rent for our facilities in Israel, in NIS. As a result, we are exposed to the risk that the rate of inflation in Israel will exceed the rate of devaluation of the NIS in relation to the U.S. dollar or that the timing of this devaluation lags behind inflation in Israel. In that event, the U.S. dollar cost of our operations in Israel will increase and our U.S. dollar-measured results of operations will be adversely affected. Similarly, we are exposed to the risk that the NIS, after adjustment for inflation in Israel, will appreciate in relation to the U.S. dollar. In that event, the dollar-measured cost of our operations in Israel will increase and our dollar-measured results of operations will be adversely affected. In 2014, the NIS depreciated by approximately 12%, against the U.S. dollar, and in 2013 and 2012, the NIS appreciated by approximately 7.0% and 2.3% respectively, against the U.S. dollar. In 2012 and 2013, the annual inflation rate in Israel was approximately 1.63% and 1.82%, respectively. In year 2014, the annual deflation was 0.2%. Therefore, the U.S. dollar cost of our Israeli operations decreased in 2014 and increased in 2013 and 2012. We cannot predict whether in the future the NIS will appreciate against the U.S. dollar or vice versa. Any increase in the rate of inflation in Israel, unless the increase is offset on a timely basis by a devaluation of the NIS in relation to the U.S. dollar, will increase our labor and other costs, which will increase the U.S. dollar cost of our operations in Israel and harm our results of operations (see “Item 5A. Results of Operation - Impact of Inflation and Currency Fluctuations” below) - 11 - If we are unsuccessful in introducing new products, we may be unable to expand our business. The market for some of the products we market is characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards. The introduction of products embodying new technology and the emergence of new industry standards can render existing products obsolete and unmarketable and can exert price pressures on existing products. Our ability to anticipate changes in technology and industry standards and successfully market new and enhanced products as well as additional applications for existing products, in each case on a timely basis, will be critical in our ability to grow and remain competitive. If we are unable, for technological or other reasons, to market products that are competitive in technology and price and responsive to customer needs, our business will be materially adversely affected. Our Supply Chain division has significant sales worldwide and could encounter problems if conditions change in the places where we market products. We have sold and intend to continue to sell products in overseas markets, including in Europe and the Far East. A number of risks are inherent in engaging in international transactions, including: ● possible problems in collecting receivables; ● imposition of governmental controls, or export license requirements; ● political and economic instability in foreign companies; ● foreign currency exchange rate risk ● trade restrictions or changes in tariffs being imposed; and ● laws and legal issues concerning foreign countries. If we should encounter such difficulties in conducting our international operations, it may adversely affect our business condition and results of operations. Unfavorable global economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. A financial and economic downturn in Israel and in one or more of our overseas markets may cause revenues of our customers to decrease. This may result in reductions in sales of products and services in some markets, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. In addition, weakness in the end-user market could negatively affect the cash flow of our customers who could, in turn, delay paying their obligations to us. This could increase our credit risk exposure and cause delays in our recognition of revenues on future sales to these customers. - 12 - We may be obligated to indemnify our directors and officers. The Company has agreements with its directors and senior officers which provide, subject to Israeli law, indemnification by the Company of directors and senior officers for: (a) monetary liability imposed upon them in favor of a third party by a judgment, including a settlement or an arbitral award confirmed by the court, as a result of an act or omission of such person in its capacity as a director or officer of the Company, (b) reasonable litigation expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by them pursuant to an investigation or a proceeding commenced against them by a competent authority if it was terminated without an indictment and without having a monetary charge imposed on them in exchange for a criminal procedure (as such terms are defined in the Israeli Companies Law 1999 – 5759 (the “Israeli Companies Law”)), or that was terminated without an indictment but with a monetary charge imposed on them in exchange for a criminal procedure in a crime that does not require proof of criminal intent, or in connection with a financial sanction, as a result of an act or omission of such person in its capacity as a director or officer of the Company, (c) reasonable litigation expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by such a director or officer or imposed on him by a court, in a proceeding brought against him by or on behalf of the Company or by a third party, or in a criminal action in which he was acquitted, or in a criminal action which does not require criminal intent in which he was convicted, in each case relating to acts or omissions of such person in its capacity as a director or officer of the Company, (d) expenses, including reasonable litigation expenses and legal fees, incurred by such a director or officer as a result of a proceeding instituted against him in relation to (A) infringements that may result in imposition of financial sanction pursuant to the provisions of Chapter H'3 under the Israeli Securities Law or (B) administrative infringements pursuant to the provisions of Chapter H'4 under the Israeli Securities Law or (C) infringements pursuant to the provisions of Chapter I'1 under the Israeli Securities Law; and (e) payments to an injured party of infringement under Section 52ND(a)(1)(a) of the Israeli Securities Law. Payment pursuant to such indemnification may materially adversely affect our financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will not be classified as a passive foreign investment company (a “PFIC”). Based upon our current and projected income, assets and activities, we do not believe that at this time BOS is a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes, but there can be no assurance that we will not be classified as such in the future. Such classification may have grave tax consequences for U.S. shareholders. One method of avoiding such tax consequences is by making a “qualified electing fund” election for the first taxable year in which the Company is a PFIC. However, such an election is conditioned upon our furnishing U.S. shareholders annually with certain tax information. We do not presently prepare or provide such information, and such information may not be available to U.S. shareholders if we are subsequently determined to be a PFIC. You are advised to consult with your own tax advisor regarding the particular tax consequences related to the ownership and disposition of our Ordinary Shares under your own particular factual circumstances. A decline in the value of our market capitalization or other factors could require us to write-down the value of our goodwill, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our balance sheet contains a significant amount of goodwill and other amortizable intangible assets in long-term assets, totaling about $4.2 million at December 31, 2014. We review goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently when indications for potential impairment exist. We review other amortizable intangible assets for impairment when indicators for impairment exist. The volatility of our share price can cause significant changes to our market capitalization. If our market capitalization experiences a significant decline and is below the value of our Shareholders' equity, if the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, or if any other quantitative or qualitative indication of impairment of goodwill arises in the future, we may be required to record impairment charges for our goodwill. Any such write-downs, if required, could result in a significant non-cash expense on our income statement, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. - 13 - There are substantial risks associated with the Standby Equity Distribution Agreements, which could contribute to the decline of our share price and have a dilutive impact on our existing shareholders. The sale of our Ordinary Shares to YA Global Master SPV Ltd., or YA Global, pursuant to the Standby Equity Distribution Agreements, or the SEDAs, (see “Item 5B – Liquidity and Capital Resources”) will have a dilutive impact on our shareholders. The closing market price of our Ordinary Shares as of March 31, 2015 was $2.07. Assuming this is the price per share used as a basis for the calculations for all draw downs under the SEDAs, we would be able to sell 675,290 Ordinary Shares to YA Global, and receive net proceeds of approximately $ 1,300,000. Such amount of shares would comprise 32% of our issued and outstanding share capital (pre sale), which would dilute our current shareholders. We may fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information, and the market price of our Ordinary Shares. Our efforts to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, governing internal control and procedures for financial reporting have resulted in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention, and we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. We may identify material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our assessments of our internal control over financial reporting. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in investigations or sanctions by regulatory authorities, and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information, and the market price of our Ordinary Shares. Risks related to our Ordinary Shares: Our share price has been and may continue to be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for individual shareholders. The market price of our Ordinary Shares has been and may continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. From January 1, 2014 through March 31, 2015, the daily closing price of our Ordinary Shares in NASDAQ has ranged from $2.07 to $7.88 per share. We believe that these fluctuations have been in response to a number of factors including the following, some of which are beyond our control: ● variations between actual results and projections; ● the limited trading volume in our stock; ● changes in our bank debts; and ● Nasdaq Capital Market Listing Standards non-compliance notices; In addition, stock markets in general have from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility is often unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our Ordinary Shares, regardless of our actual operating performance. - 14 - The Company’s shares may be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market if it does not meet NASDAQ’s continued listing requirements. Over the years, the Company has received several notices from the NASDAQ Stock Market advising it of non-compliance of its shares for continued listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market. On January 17, 2012, the Company received a notice from the Listing Qualifications Department of Nasdaq advising us that the Company has failed to comply with Nasdaq’s requirement that listed securities maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share as set forth in Nasdaq Listing Rules. On July 19, 2012, the Company requested a hearing with the Nasdaq Hearings Panel, and a hearing was held on August 30, 2012. The Panel determined that the continued listing of the Company’s securities on Nasdaq was contingent on the Company effecting a reverse stock split in the ratio of 1 for 4 by not later than December 15, 2012, which it did. On January 2, 2013, the Company received a notice from the NASDAQ Office of General Counsel-Hearings, advising that the Company has regained compliance with the applicable minimum bid price rule and is in compliance with all other applicable requirements for listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market. There can be no assurance that the Company will continue to qualify for listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market. If the Company’s Ordinary Shares are delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, trading in its Ordinary Shares could be conducted on the over-the-counter market. In addition, if the Company’s Ordinary Shares were delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, it would be subject to the so-called penny stock rules that impose restrictive sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell those securities. Consequently, de-listing, if it occurred, could affect the ability of the shareholders to sell their Ordinary Shares in the secondary market. The restrictions applicable to shares that are de-listed, as well as the lack of liquidity for shares that are traded on an electronic bulletin board, may adversely affect the market price of such shares. Risks related to our location in Israel: Political, economic, and security conditions in Israel affect our operations and may limit our ability to produce and sell products or provide our services. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel, where we also maintain our headquarters and our principal research and development and sales and marketing facilities. - 15 - Since its establishment in 1948, Israel has been involved in a number of armed conflicts with its Arab neighbors and a state of hostility, varying from time to time in intensity and degree, has continued into 2014. Since early July 2014, there has been a significant increase in hostilities between Hamas, an Islamist organization governing the Gaza Strip, and Israel, including missiles launched by Hamas from the Gaza Strip into Israel and airstrikes and ground operations conducted by Israel in the Gaza Strip. On July 21, 2014, all U.S. airlines and most major airlines of other nationalities suspended their flights to Israel’s Ben-Gurion International Airport for several days after a missile landed approximately 1.5 Km away. Also, since 2011, riots and uprisings in several countries in the Middle East and neighboring regions have led to severe political instability in several neighboring states and to a decline in the regional security situation. Such instability may affect the local and global economy, could negatively affect business conditions and, therefore, could adversely affect our operations. Syria, in particular, has been engaged in a fierce civil war and there have been threats from the Syrian government that if the conflict escalates and international forces intervene, Israel may be attacked. In addition, Iran has threatened to attack Israel and is widely believed to be developing nuclear weapons. Iran is also believed to have a strong influence among extremist groups in areas that neighbor Israel, such as Hamas in Gaza and Hezbollah in Lebanon. To date, these matters have not had any material effect on our business and results of operations; however, the regional security situation and worldwide perceptions of it are outside our control and there can be no assurance that these matters will not negatively affect us in the future. Furthermore, several countries, principally those in the Middle East, as well as Malaysia and Indonesia, still restrict business with Israel and Israeli companies. Restrictive laws or policies directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses may have an adverse impact on our operations, our financial results or the expansion of our business. A number of our key personnel in Israel have standing obligations to perform periodic reserve duty in the Israel Defense Forces and are subject to be called for active military duty at any time. If our key personnel are absent from our business for a significant period of time, we may experience disruptions in our business that could affect the development, sales or technical support of our products. As a result, we might not be able to compete in the market and our results of operations could be harmed. The anti-takeover effects of Israeli laws may delay or deter a change of control of the Company. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make undesirable a merger or an acquisition of all or a significant portion of our shares or assets. Israeli corporate law regulates acquisitions of shares through tender offers and mergers, requires special approvals for transactions involving significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. These provisions of Israeli law could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions may limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for our Ordinary Shares. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions undesirable to us or to some of our shareholders. These laws may have the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control of the Company, thereby limiting the opportunity for shareholders to receive a premium for their shares and possibly affecting the price that some investors are willing to pay for the Company’s securities. - 16 - All of our directors and officers are non-U.S. residents and enforceability of civil liabilities against them is uncertain. All of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States. Service of process upon them may be difficult to effect within the United States. Furthermore, because the majority of our assets are located in Israel, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of our directors and non-U.S. officers may not be collectible within the United States. Your rights and responsibilities as our shareholder will be governed by Israeli law, which differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders of United States corporations. Since we are incorporated under Israeli law, the rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by our articles of association and Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in United States-based corporations. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith towards the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing its power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters, such as an amendment to the company’s articles of association, an increase of the company’s authorized share capital, a merger and approval of related party transactions that require shareholder approval. In addition, a shareholder who knows that it possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholders’ vote or to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or executive officer in the company has a duty of fairness towards the company. These provisions may be interpreted to impose additional obligations and liabilities on our shareholders that are not typically imposed on shareholders of U.S. corporations. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on The Nasdaq Capital Market, we have elected to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain Nasdaq requirements. We are a foreign private issuer as such term is defined under U.S. federal securities laws. As a foreign private issuer, we have elected to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of the Marketplace Rules of The Nasdaq Capital Market, or the Nasdaq Marketplace Rules. We may in the future elect to follow Israeli corporate governance practices with regard to, among other things, the composition of our board of directors, compensation of officers, director nomination procedures and quorum requirements at shareholders’ meetings. In addition, we may elect to follow Israeli corporate governance practices instead of the Nasdaq requirements to obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events (such as for the establishment or amendment of certain equity-based compensation plans, issuances that will result in a change of control of the company, certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of a 20% or more interest in the company and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company). Accordingly, our shareholders may not be afforded the same protection as provided under Nasdaq’s corporate governance rules. Following our home country governance practices as opposed to the requirements that would otherwise apply to a U.S. company listed on The Nasdaq Capital Market may provide less protection than is accorded to investors of domestic issuers. See “Item 16G – Corporate Governance.” - 17 - If we were to lose our foreign private issuer status under U.S. federal securities laws, we would incur additional expenses associated with compliance with the U.S. securities laws applicable to U.S. domestic issuers. As a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from the rules and regulations under the Exchange Act, related to the furnishing and content of proxy statements, and our officers, directors, and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and short-swing profit recovery provisions contained in Section 16 of the Exchange Act. In addition, we are not required under the Exchange Act to file annual, quarterly and current reports and financial statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission as frequently or as promptly as domestic companies whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act. The regulatory and compliance costs to us under U.S. securities laws, if we are required to comply with the reporting requirements applicable to a U.S. domestic issuer, may be significantly higher than the cost we currently incur as a foreign private issuer. As a public company in the United States, we incur significant accounting, legal and other expenses as a result of listing our Ordinary Shares on the Nasdaq Capital Market, and we may need to devote substantial resources to address new compliance initiatives and reporting requirements. As a public company in the United States, we incur significant accounting, legal and other expenses as a result of listing our Ordinary Shares on the Nasdaq Capital Market. These include costs associated with corporate governance requirements of the SEC and the Marketplace Rules of Nasdaq, as well as requirements under Section 404 and other provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any future changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies in the United States and Israel, will result in increased costs to us as we respond to such changes. These laws, rules and regulations could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these requirements could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our Board of Directors, our board committees or as executive officers. Item 