Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company's business may be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. The United States economy has undergone a severe recession and remains in a period of limited growth and historically high unemployment. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions has been challenged and individuals, local governments and many businesses are experiencing financial difficulties. The Company's financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, is highly dependent upon the business environment in the markets where the Company operates, in the New York metropolitan area and in the United States as a whole. Conditions in the marketplace for the Bank's property collateral types (mainly multifamily and commercial real estate) remained stronger than most other parts of the country throughout the years of the financial crisis, and in fact have recently rebounded to healthy pre-crisis levels. Nevertheless, given the precarious nature of financial and economic conditions both nationally and globally, this status is always subject to change, which could adversely affect the credit quality of the Bank's loans, results of operations and financial condition. The Bank's commercial real estate lending may subject it to greater risk of an adverse impact on operations from a decline in the economy. The credit quality of the Bank's portfolio can have a significant impact on the Company's earnings, results of operations and financial condition. As part of the Company's strategic plan, it originates loans secured by commercial real estate that are generally viewed as exposing lenders to a greater risk of loss than both one- to four-family and multifamily residential mortgage loans. Because payments on loans secured by commercial real estate are often dependent upon successful operation or management of the collateral properties, as well as the success of the business and retail tenants occupying the properties, repayment of such loans are generally more vulnerable to weak economic conditions. Further, the collateral securing such loans may depreciate over time, be difficult to appraise, or fluctuate in value based upon the rentability, among other commercial factors. The performance of Bank's multifamily and mixed-use loans could be adversely impacted by regulation or a weakened economy. Multifamily and mixed use loans involve a greater risk than one- to four- family residential mortgage loans because government regulations such as rent control and rent stabilization laws, which are outside the control of the borrower or the Bank, could impair the value of the security for the loan or the future cash flow of such properties. As a result, rental income might not rise sufficiently over time to satisfy increases in the loan rate at repricing or increases in overhead expenses (e.g., utilities, taxes, etc.). Impaired loans are thus difficult to identify before they become problematic. In addition, if the cash flow from a collateral property is reduced (e.g., if leases are not obtained or renewed), the borrower's ability to repay the loan and the value of the security for the loan may be impaired. Extension of credit on multifamily, mixed-use or commercial real estate loans may result from reliance upon inaccurate or misleading information received from the borrower. In deciding whether to extend credit on multifamily, mixed-use or commercial real estate loans, the Bank may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of a customer and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. In the event such information is inaccurate or misleading, reliance on it could have a material adverse impact on the Company's business and, in turn, its financial condition and results of operations. Geographic and borrower concentrations could adversely impact financial performance. The Company's financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans, as well as the value of collateral securing those loans, is highly dependent upon business and economic conditions in the United States, particularly in the local New York metropolitan area where the Company conducts substantially all of its business. Conditions in these marketplaces have begun to rebound in recent months after several years of deterioration. Should such conditions fail to continue to improve, they may adversely affect the credit quality of the Bank's loans, its results of operations and its financial condition. Conditions in the real estate markets in which the collateral for the Bank's mortgage loans are located strongly influence the level of the Bank's non-performing loans and the value of its collateral. Real estate values are affected by, among other items, fluctuations in general or local economic conditions, supply and demand, changes in governmental rules or policies, the F-39 availability of loans to potential purchasers and acts of nature. Declines in real estate markets have in the past, and may in the future, negatively impact the Company's results of operations, cash flows, business, financial condition and prospects. In addition, at December 31, 2012 the Bank had three borrowers for which its total lending exposure equaled or exceeded 10% of its Tier 1 risk-based capital (its lowest capital measure). Total default by these borrowers could adversely impact the Bank's financial condition and results of operations. The Bank's allowance for loan losses may be insufficient. The Bank's allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level considered adequate by management to absorb losses inherent in its loan portfolio. The amount of inherent loan losses which could be ultimately realized is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, that could be beyond the Bank's control. Such losses could exceed current estimates. Although management believes that the Bank's allowance for loan losses is adequate, there can be no assurance that the allowance will be sufficient to satisfy actual loan losses should such losses be realized. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and capital, and may have a material adverse effect on the Bank's financial condition and results of operations. Increases in interest rates may reduce the Company's profitability. The Bank's primary source of income is its net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on its interest earning assets and the interest expense incurred on its interest bearing liabilities. The Bank's one-year interest rate sensitivity gap is the difference between interest rate sensitive assets maturing or repricing within one year and its interest rate sensitive liabilities maturing or repricing within one year, expressed as both a total amount and as a percentage of total assets. At December 31, 2012, the Bank's one year interest rate gap was negative 11%, indicating that the overall level of its interest rate sensitive liabilities maturing or repricing within one year exceeded that of its interest rate sensitive assets maturing or repricing within one year. In a rising interest rate environment, an institution with a negative gap would generally be expected, absent the effects of other factors, to experience a greater increase in its cost of liabilities relative to its yield on assets, and thus a decline in net interest income from its existing investments and funding sources. Based upon historical experience, if interest rates were to rise, the Bank would expect the demand for multifamily loans to decline. Decreased loan origination volume would likely negatively impact the Bank's interest income. In addition, if interest rates were to rise rapidly and result in an economic decline, the Bank would expect its level of non-performing loans to increase. Such an increase in non-performing loans may result in an increase to the provision/allowance for loan losses and possible increased charge-offs, which would negatively impact the Company's net income. Further, the actual amount of time before mortgage loans and MBS are repaid can be significantly impacted by changes in mortgage redemption rates and market interest rates. Mortgage prepayment, satisfaction and refinancing rates will vary due to several factors, including the regional economy in the area where the underlying mortgages were originated, seasonal factors, and other demographic variables. However, the most significant factors affecting prepayment, satisfaction and refinancing rates are prevailing interest rates, related mortgage refinancing opportunities and competition. The level of mortgage and MBS prepayment, satisfaction and refinancing activity impacts the Company's earnings due to its effect on fee income earned on prepayment and refinancing activities, along with liquidity levels the Company will experience to fund new investments or ongoing operations. As a New York State chartered savings bank, the Bank is required to monitor changes in its Economic Value of Equity ("EVE"), which is the difference between the estimated market value of its assets and liabilities. In addition, the Bank monitors its EVE ratio, which is the EVE divided by the estimated market value of total assets and net interest income. To monitor its overall sensitivity to changes in interest rates, the Bank simulates the effect of instantaneous changes in net interest income of up to 400 basis points on its assets and liabilities. Interest rates do and will continue to fluctuate, and the Bank cannot predict future FOMC actions or other factors that will cause interest rates to vary. The Company operates in a highly regulated industry and is subject to uncertain risks related to changes in laws, government regulation and monetary policy. The Holding Company and the Bank are subject to extensive supervision, regulation and examination by the NYSDFS (the Bank's primary regulator), the FRB (the Holding Company's primary regulator) and the FDIC, as its deposit insurer. Such regulation limits the manner in which the Holding Company and Bank conduct business, undertake new investments and activities and obtain financing. This regulation is designed primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance funds and the Bank's depositors, and not to benefit the Bank or its creditors. The regulatory structure also provides the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies, including policies F-40 with respect to capital levels, the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject the Holding Company and Bank to regulatory enforcement action that could result in the assessment of significant civil money penalties against the Holding Company and Bank. For further information regarding the laws and regulations that affect the Holding Company and the Bank, see "Item 1. Business - Regulation - Regulation of New York State Chartered Savings Banks," and "Item 1. Business - Regulation - Regulation of Holding Company." The fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its policies determine in significant part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect the Company's net interest margin. Government action can materially decrease the value of the Company's financial assets, such as debt securities, mortgages and MSR. Governmental policies can also adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. Changes in Federal Reserve Board or governmental policies are beyond the Company's control and difficult to predict; consequently, the impact of these changes on the Company's activities and results of operations is difficult to predict. Financial institution regulation has been the subject of significant legislation in recent years, and may be the subject of further significant legislation in the future, none of which is within the control of the Holding Company or the Bank. Significant new laws or changes in, or repeals of, existing laws may cause the Company's results of operations to differ materially. Further, federal monetary policy significantly affects credit conditions for the Company, primarily through open market operations in United States government securities, the discount rate for bank borrowings and reserve requirements for liquid assets. A material change in any of these conditions would have a material impact on the Bank, and therefore, on the Company's results of operations. In addition, the Company expects to face increased regulation and supervision of the Bank's industry as a result of the financial crisis in the banking and financial markets, and there will be additional requirements and conditions imposed to the extent that it participates in any of the programs established or to be established by the U.S. Department of the Treasury ("Treasury") or by the federal bank regulatory agencies. Such additional regulation and supervision may increase costs and limit the Company's ability to pursue business opportunities. Competition from other financial institutions in originating loans and attracting deposits may adversely affect profitability. The Bank operates in a highly competitive industry that could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes, and continued consolidation. The Bank's retail banking and a significant portion of its lending business are concentrated in the NYC metropolitan area. The NYC banking environment is extremely competitive. The Bank's competition for loans exists principally from savings banks, commercial banks, mortgage banks and insurance companies. The Bank has faced sustained competition for the origination of multifamily residential and commercial real estate loans. Management anticipates that the current level of competition for multifamily residential and commercial real estate loans will continue for the foreseeable future, and this competition may inhibit the Bank's ability to maintain its current level and pricing of such loans. Clients could pursue alternatives to the Bank's deposits, causing the Bank to lose a historically less expensive source of funding. The Bank gathers deposits in direct competition with comercial banks, savings banks and brokerage firms, many among the largest in the nation. In addition, it must also compete for deposit monies against the stock markets, mutual funds, and other securities. Over the previous decade, consolidation in the financial services industry, coupled with the emergence of Internet banking, has altered the deposit gathering landscape and may increase competitive pressures on the Bank. The Bank may not be able to meet the cash flow requirements of its depositors and borrowers or meet its operating cash needs. Liquidity is the ability to meet cash flow needs on a timely basis at a reasonable cost. The liquidity of the Bank is used to make loans and repay deposit liabilities as they become due or are demanded by customers. Liquidity policies and limits are established by the board of directors. The Holding Company's overall liquidity position and the liquidity position of the Bank are regularly monitored to ensure that various alternative strategies exist to cover unanticipated events that could affect liquidity. Funding sources include deposits, repayments of loans and MBS, investment security maturities and redemptions, advances from the FHLBNY and REPOS. The Bank maintains a portfolio of securities that can be used as a secondary source of liquidity. The Bank also can borrow through the Federal Reserve Bank's discount window. If the Bank was unable to access any of these funding sources when needed, it might be unable to meet customers' needs, which could adversely impact the Company's financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and level of regulatory capital. F-41 The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect the Company. The Company's ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. The Company has exposure to many different industries and counterparties. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by the Company or by other institutions. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect the Company's results of operations. Negative public opinion could damage the Company's reputation and adversely impact its business and revenues. As a financial institution, the Bank's earnings and capital are subject to risks associated with negative public opinion. Negative public opinion could result from the Company's actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, the failure of any product or service sold by the Bank to meet customers' expectations or applicable regulatory requirements, corporate governance and acquisitions, or from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect the Company's ability to attract and/or retain clients and can expose the Company to litigation and regulatory action. Actual or alleged conduct by one of the Company's businesses can result in negative public opinion about its other businesses. Negative public opinion could also affect the Company's credit ratings, which are important to its access to unsecured wholesale borrowings. Significant changes in these ratings could change the cost and availability of these sources of funding. The impact of recently enacted and proposed legislation and government programs to stabilize the financial markets may adversely impact the Company. During 2008 and 2009, there was unprecedented government intervention in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets, including: · The enactment of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 ("EESA") in October 2008, which gave the Treasury the authority, among others, to purchase up to $700 billion of troubled assets from financial institutions; · The announcements shortly thereafter by the Treasury, the FDIC and the FRB, respectively, of (i) the Capital Purchase Program ("CPP"), a $250 billion voluntary capital purchase program under which qualifying financial institutions were given the ability to sell preferred shares to the Treasury, (ii) the TLGP, and (iii) further details of the Commercial Paper Funding Facility ("CPFF"), which provides a broad backstop for the commercial paper market; · The announcement by the Treasury in February 2009 of the Capital Assistance Program ("CAP") under which qualifying financial institutions were provided access to contingent common equity provided by the U.S. government as a bridge to private capital in the future; · The announcement by the federal banking regulators of the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program, under which the federal banking regulators measured the amount of additional capital, if any, each of the 19 largest U.S. bank holding companies would require in order to ensure that it would comfortably exceed minimum regulatory capital requirements at December 31, 2010 (as a result of which many of the nineteen institutions underwent capital raising or restructuring transactions to improve their capital base); and · The March 2009 announcement by the Treasury, in conjunction with the FDIC and the FRB, of the Public-Private Investment Program ("PPIP"), which consists of two discrete components: (1) the Legacy Loan Program, which was designed to facilitate the sale of commercial and residential whole loans and "other assets" currently held by U.S. banks, and (2) the Legacy Securities Program, which was designed to facilitate the sale of legacy residential MBS and commercial MBS initially rated AAA and currently held by Financial Institutions (as defined under the EESA). The Company did not participate in the TLGP, CPP, CPFF or CAP, and has not participated in either PPIP program. Although it appears that there has been some stabilization of the U.S. financial markets as a result of the foregoing programs and other actions taken by the U.S. government, there can be no assurance as to the actual impact that such programs or any other governmental program will have on the financial markets and the economy in the future. The financial market and economic conditions that existed during the years 2008 through 2012 had, and to the extent that such conditions continue or worsen, will continue to have, an adverse affect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations, and could also materially and adversely affect the Company's business, access to credit or the trading price of the Holding Company's common stock. In addition, the Company expects to face increased regulation and supervision of the Bank's industry as a result of the financial crisis in the banking and financial markets, and there will be additional requirements and conditions imposed to the extent that it participates in any of the programs established or to be established by the Treasury or by the federal F-42 bank regulatory agencies. Such additional regulation and supervision may increase costs and limit the Company's ability to pursue business opportunities. The FDIC's restoration plan and the related increased assessment rate schedule may have a further material effect on the Company's results of operations. On October 19, 2010, the Board of Directors of the FDIC adopted the Restoration Plan to ensure that the DIF reserve ratio reaches 1.35% by September 30, 2020, as required by the Reform Act. Among other matters, the Restoration Plan provides that the FDIC will forego the uniform nine basis point increase in initial assessment rates that was previously scheduled to take effect on January 1, 2011 and will maintain the current assessment rate schedule for all insured depository institutions until the reserve ratio reaches 1.15%. On February 7, 2011, the FDIC adopted a final rule that re-defines the assessment base for deposit insurance assessments as average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity, rather than on deposit bases, as required by the Reform Act, and revises the risk-based assessment system for all large insured depository institutions by introducing a scoring system. This system involves the FDIC establishing a score for each such institution which then translates into an assessment rate. See "Part 1. Item 1- Business Regulation - Regulation of New York State Chartered Savings Banks - Insurance of Deposit Accounts" for a further discussion of the impact of this final rule. On April 12, 2011, the FDIC Board of Directors authorized publication of proposed guidelines describing the process that the FDIC would follow to determine whether to make an adjustment to the score used to calculate the assessment rate for a large or highly complex institution, the size of any such adjustment, and the procedure the FDIC would follow to notify an institution of an adjustment. Pursuant to the proposed guidelines, the FDIC can make a limited adjustment, either upward or downward, to an institution's total score based upon risks or risk mitigating factors that are not adequately captured in the institution's scorecard. In addition, an institution can make written request to the FDIC for such an adjustment. In either case, the FDIC would consult with an institution's primary federal regulator and appropriate state banking supervisor before making any decision to adjust an institution's total score. Any adjustment to an institution's score must be approved by the FDIC and there is no assurance that a request for an adjustment will result in a downward adjustment. The recent adoption of regulatory reform legislation has created uncertainty and may have a material effect on the Company's operations and capital requirements. The Reform Act includes provisions that create minimum standards for the origination of mortgage loans. Pursuant to the Reform Act, on April 19, 2011, the FRB requested public comment on a proposed rule under Regulation Z that would impose extensive regulations governing an institution's obligation to evaluate a borrower's ability to repay a mortgage loan. The rule would apply to all consumer mortgages (except home equity lines of credit, timeshare plans, reverse mortgages or temporary loans). Consistent with the Reform Act, the proposal provides four options for complying with the ability-to-repay requirement. The proposal would also implement the Reform Act's limits on prepayment fees. This rulemaking will be finalized by the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection. It is possible this rule may require the Bank to modify its underwriting practices and may cause an increase in compliance costs. Congress and various federal regulators also may significantly impact the financial services industry and the Company's business. For example, the Federal Reserve Bank has proposed guidance on incentive compensation at the banking organizations it regulates, and the U.S. Department of the Treasury and the federal banking regulators have issued statements calling for higher capital and liquidity requirements for banks. Complying with any new legislative or regulatory requirements, and any programs established thereunder by federal and state governments to address the continuing economic weakness, could have an adverse impact on the Company's consolidated results of operations, its ability to fill positions with the most qualified candidates available, and the Holding Company's ability to maintain its dividend. Furthermore, the Federal Government has announced plans to dramatically transform the role of government in the U.S. housing market, including by winding down FNMA and FHLMC, and by reducing other government support to such markets. Congressional leaders have voiced similar plans for future legislation. It is too early to determine the nature and scope of any legislation that may develop along these lines, or the roles FNMA and FHLMC or the private sector will play in future housing markets. However, it is possible that legislation will be proposed over the near term that would considerably limit the nature of GSE guarantees relative to historical measurements, which could have broad adverse implications for the market and significant implications for the Company's business. F-43 As a result of the Reform Act and other proposed changes, the Bank may become subject to more stringent capital requirements. The Reform Act requires the federal banking agencies to establish consolidated risk-based and leverage capital requirements for insured depository institutions, depository institution holding companies and systemically important nonbank financial companies. These requirements must be no less than those to which insured depository institutions are currently subject, and the new requirements will effectively eliminate the use of trust preferred securities as a component of Tier 1 capital for depository institution holding companies of $15 billion or greater. As a result, in July 2015, the Company will become subject to consolidated capital requirements to which it has not been previously subject. In addition, in December 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision announced the new "Basel III" capital rules, which set new standards for common equity, Tier 1 and total capital, determined on a risk-weighted basis. It is not yet known how these standards, which will be phased in over a period of years, will be implemented by U.S. regulators generally or the manner in which they will be applied to financial institutions of the Company's size. Pursuant to the Reform Act, the FRB became responsible for the supervision of savings and loan holding companies on July 21, 2011. In accordance with this authority, on April 15, 2011, the FRB requested comment on proposed supervisory guidance pursuant to which the FRB is seeking to apply certain elements of its consolidated supervisory program for bank holding companies, including consolidated capital requirements, to savings and loan holding companies. Pursuant to the proposed supervisory guidance, the FRB is considering applying to savings and loan holding companies the same consolidated risk-based and leverage capital requirements currently applicable to bank holding companies. The FRB, together with the other federal banking agencies, expects to issue a notice of proposed rulemaking that will outline how Basel III-based requirements will be implemented for all institutions, including savings and loan holding companies. The FRB expects that final rules establishing Basel III-based capital requirements would be finalized in 2012 and implementation would start in 2013. The FRB's rule to repeal the prohibition against payment of interest on demand deposits may increase competition for such deposits and ultimately increase interest expense. Effective July 21, 2011, the FRB issued a final rule to repeal Regulation Q, which prohibits the payment of interest on demand deposits by institutions that are member banks of the Federal Reserve System. The rule implements Section 627 of the Reform Act, which repeals Section 19(i) of the Federal Reserve Act in its entirety. As a result, banks and thrifts are now permitted to offer interest-bearing demand deposit accounts to commercial customers, which were previously forbidden under Regulation Q. The repeal of Regulation Q may gradually cause increased competition from other financial institutions for these deposits. If the Bank decides to pay interest on demand accounts, it would expect interest expense to increase. As a result of the Proposed Basel Committee on Banking Supervision Capital Rules, the Company may become subject to more stringent capital requirements. In December 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, an international forum for cooperation on banking supervisory matters, announced the "Basel III" capital rules, which established new capital requirements for banking organizations. On June 7, 2012, the Federal Reserve Board offered three proposed rules that, taken together, would establish an integrated regulatory capital framework implementing the Basel III regulatory capital reforms in the United States. As proposed, the U.S. implementation of Basel III would lead to significantly higher capital requirements and more restrictive leverage and liquidity ratios than those currently in effect. Once adopted, these new capital requirements would be phased in over time. Additionally, the U.S. implementation of Basel III contemplates that, for banking organizations with less than $15 billion in assets, the ability to treat trust preferred securities as tier 1 capital would be phased out over a ten-year period. Management is currently unable to determine the ultimate effect that any final regulations, if enacted, would have upon the Company's earnings or financial position. In addition, significant questions remain unanswered regarding the manner in which the numerous capital and liquidity mandates of the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act will be integrated with the requirements of Basel III. Based upon the Company's current understanding of the proposals, however, management believes that the Company's capital, balance sheet and business model should not be materially adversely impacted by the U.S. implementation of Basel III. Downgrades of the current "AAA" credit rating assigned to the U.S. Government could adversely affect the Bank and/or Holding Company. On August 5, 2011, Standard & Poor's lowered the long-term sovereign credit rating assigned to the United States from "AAA" to "AA+" with a negative outlook, indicating a further rating downgrade is possible in the future. On August 2, 2011, Moody's Investors Service confirmed its "Aaa" rating for the United States, however, issued a negative outlook. On August 16, 2011, Fitch Ratings confirmed its AAA rating for the United States. F-44 On August 5, 2011, the FDIC, Federal Reserve, OCC and National Credit Union Administration issued a joint press release stating that for risk-based capital purposes, the risk weights assigned to securities issued or guaranteed by the U.S. Government, its agencies and U.S. Government-sponsored entities will not change. However, a downgrade of the U.S. Government's sovereign credit rating below "AA" could cause a higher risk weight to be assigned to securities issued or guaranteed by the U.S Government or its agencies that the Company holds in its portfolio and increase the Bank's and/or the Holding Company's risk-based capital requirements. In addition, a ratings downgrade of securities issued or guaranteed by the U.S. Government or its agencies held in the Company's portfolio could adversely affect the carrying value of such securities. At this time, the Company cannot assess the likelihood or severity of such a downgrade or the potential consequences it may have on either the capital position or investment portfolio of the Bank and/or Holding Company. The Company's accounting estimates and risk management processes rely on analytical and forecasting models. The processes the Company uses to estimate its probable loan losses and to measure the fair value of some financial instruments, as well as the processes used to estimate the effects of changing interest rates and other market measures on the Company's financial condition and results of operations, depends upon the use of analytical and forecasting models. These models reflect assumptions that may not be accurate, particularly in times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances. Even if these assumptions are adequate, the models may prove to be inadequate or inaccurate because of other flaws in their design or their implementation. If the models the Company uses for interest rate risk and asset-liability management are inadequate, the Company may incur increased or unexpected losses upon changes in market interest rates or other market measures. If the models the Company uses for determining its probable loan losses are inadequate, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to support future charge-offs. If the models the Company uses to measure the fair value financial instruments is inadequate, the fair value of such financial instruments may fluctuate unexpectedly or may not accurately reflect what the Company could realize upon sale or settlement of such financial instruments. Any such failure in the Company's analytical or forecasting models could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. The value of the Company's goodwill and other intangible assets may decline in the future. As of December 31, 2012, the Company had $55.6 million of goodwill and other intangible assets. A significant decline in the Company's expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, slower growth rates or a significant and sustained decline in the price of the Holding Company's common stock may necessitate taking charges in the future related to the impairment of the Company's goodwill and other intangible assets. If the Company were to conclude that a future write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets is necessary, the Company would record the appropriate charge, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company's controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. The Company's internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures are based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are satisfied. Any failure or circumvention of the Company's controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company's risk management practices may not be effective in mitigating the risks to which it is subject or in reducing the potential for losses in connection with such risks. As a financial institution, the Company is subject to a number of risks, including credit, interest rate, liquidity, market, operational, legal/compliance, loss sharing compliance, reputational, and strategic. The Company's risk management framework is designed to minimize the risks to which it is subject, as well as any losses resulting from such risks. Although the Company seeks to identify, measure, monitor, report, and control the Company's exposure to such risks, and employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and mitigation techniques in the process, those techniques are inherently limited because they cannot anticipate the existence or development of risks that are currently unknown and unanticipated. For example, recent economic conditions, heightened legislative and regulatory scrutiny of the financial services industry, and increases in the overall complexity of the Company's operations, among other developments, have resulted in the creation of a variety of risks that were previously unknown and unanticipated, highlighting the intrinsic limitations of the Company's risk monitoring and mitigation techniques. As a result, the further development of previously unknown or unanticipated risks may result in the Company incurring losses in the future that could adversely impact its financial condition and results of operations. F-45 The Company's operations rely on certain external vendors. The Company relies on certain external vendors to provide products and services necessary to maintain its day-to-day operations. Accordingly, the Company's operations are exposed to risk that these vendors will not perform in accordance with the contracted arrangements. The failure of an external vendor to perform in accordance with the contracted arrangements because of changes in the vendor's organizational structure, financial condition, support for existing products and services, or strategic focus, or for any other reason, could be disruptive to the Company's operations, which could have a material adverse impact on the Company's business and, in turn, the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The Company is subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities. A significant portion of the Company's loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, the Company may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, the Company may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require the Company to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property's value or limit the Company's ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase the Company's exposure to environmental liability. Environmental reviews of real property before initiating foreclosure may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external events could significantly impact the Company's business. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on the Company's ability to conduct business. In addition, such events could affect the stability of the Company's deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause the Company to incur additional expenses. The occurrence of any such event in the future could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Credit risk stemming from held-for-investment lending activities may adversely impact on the Company's consolidated net income. The loans originated by the Bank for investment are primarily multi-family residential loans and, to a lesser extent, commercial real estate loans. Such loans are generally larger, and have higher risk-adjusted returns and shorter maturities, than one-to four-family mortgage loans. Credit risk would ordinarily be expected to increase with the growth of these loan portfolios. Payments on multi-family residential and commercial real estate loans generally depend on the income produced by the underlying properties, which, in turn, depend on their successful operation and management. Accordingly, the ability of the Bank's borrowers to repay these loans may be impacted by adverse conditions in the local real estate market and the local economy. While the Bank seeks to minimize these risks through its underwriting policies, which generally require that such loans be qualified on the basis of the collateral property's cash flows, appraised value, and debt service coverage ratio, among other factors, there can be no assurance that the Bank's underwriting policies will protect it from credit-related losses or delinquencies. Although the Bank's losses have been comparatively limited, despite the economic weakness in its market, it cannot guarantee that this record will be maintained in future periods. The ability of the Bank's borrowers to repay their loans could be adversely impacted by a further decline in real estate values and/or an increase in unemployment, which not only could result in an increase in charge-offs and/or the provision for loan losses. Either of these events would have an adverse impact on the Company's consolidated net income. Security measures may not be sufficient to mitigate the risk of a cyber attack. Communications and information systems are essential to the conduct of the Company's business, as it uses such systems to manage its customer relationships, general ledger, deposits, and loans. The Company's operations rely on the secure processing, storage, and transmission of confidential and other information in its computer systems and networks. Although the Company takes protective measures and endeavors to modify them as circumstances warrant, the security of its computer F-46 systems, software, and networks may be vulnerable to breaches, unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses, or other malicious code and cyber attacks that could have a security impact. In addition, breaches of security may occur through intentional or unintentional acts by those having authorized or unauthorized access to the Company's confidential or other information or the confidential or other information of its customers, clients, or counterparties. If one or more of such events were to occur, the confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, the Company's computer systems and networks could potentially be jeopardized, or the operations of the Company or its customers, clients, or counterparties could otherwise experience interruptions or malfunctions. This could cause the Company significant reputational damage or result in significant losses. Furthermore, the Company may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify its protective measures or investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures arising from operational and security risks. Also, the Company may be subject to wholly or partially uninsured litigation and financial losses. In addition, the Company routinely transmits and receives personal, confidential, and proprietary information by e-mail and other electronic means. The Company has discussed and worked with its appropriate customers and counterparties to develop secure transmission capabilities, however, it does not have, and may be unable to install, secure capabilities with all of these constituents, and may be unable to ensure that these third parties have appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of such information. Any interception, misuse, or mishandling of personal, confidential, or proprietary information transmitted to or received from a customer or counterparty could result in legal liability, regulatory action, and reputational harm, and could have a significant adverse effect on the Company's competitive position, financial condition, and results of operations. Security measures may not protect the company from systems failures or interruptions. While the Company has established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of systems failures and interruptions, there can be no assurance that such events will not occur or that they will be adequately addressed if they do. In addition, the Company outsources certain aspects of its data processing to third-party providers. If the third-party providers encounter difficulties, or if difficulty in communicating with them occurs, the Company's ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions could be affected, and its business operations could be adversely impacted. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors and their personnel. Any systems failure or interruption could damage the Company's reputation and result in a loss of customers and business, could subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny, or could expose the Company to civil litigation and possible financial liability. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The trading volume in the Holding Company's common stock is less than that of other larger financial services companies. Although the Holding Company's common stock is listed for trading on the Nasdaq National Exchange, the trading volume in its common stock is less than that of other, larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of the Holding Company's common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which the Holding Company has no control. Given the lower trading volume of the Holding Company's common stock, significant sales of the Holding Company's common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could, from time to time, cause the Holding Company's stock price to exhibit weakness unrelated to financial performance. The Holding Company may reduce or eliminate dividends on its common stock in the future. Holders of the Holding Company's common stock are entitled to receive only such dividends as its Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although the Holding Company has historically declared cash dividends on its common stock, it is not required to do so and may reduce or eliminate its common stock dividend in the future. This could adversely affect the market price of the Holding Company's common stock. In addition, the Holding Company is a savings and loan holding company, and its ability to declare and pay dividends is dependent on certain federal regulatory considerations, including the guidelines of the Federal Reserve Board regarding capital adequacy and dividends. F-47 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 