Risk Factors The following factors, in addition to other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Form 20-F, should be considered carefully. This report on Form 20-F contains forward-looking statements that are intended to be, and are hereby identified as, forward looking statements for the purposes of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995. These statements address, among other things: our strategy; the anticipated development of our products; our anticipated use of proceeds; our projected capital expenditures and liquidity; our development of additional revenue sources; our development and expansion of relationships; the market acceptance of our products; and our technological advancement. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including all the risks discussed below and elsewhere in this report. 3 We urge you to consider that statements which use the terms “believe”, “do not believe”, “expect”, “plan”, “intend”, “estimate”, “anticipate”, “projections”, “forecast” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect our current views with respect to future events and are based on assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Except as required by applicable law, including the federal securities laws of the United States, we do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Market data and forecasts used in this report have been obtained from independent industry sources. We have not independently verified the data obtained from these sources and we cannot assure you of the accuracy or completeness of the data. Forecasts and other forward-looking information obtained from these sources are subject to the same qualifications and additional uncertainties accompanying any estimates of future market size. Risks relating to our business: We have had a history of losses and our future levels of sales and ability to achieve profitability are unpredictable. We have incurred net losses of $3.6 million in 2005, $2.1 million in 2004 and $21,000 in 2003. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of $42.7 million. Only in the fourth quarter of 2005 did we manage to breakeven, and there can be no assurance that this trend will continue. According to our unaudited financial reports for the first quarter of year 2006, operating loss was $43,000 and we ended the quarter with a net profit of $137,000, this mainly due to the fact that we recorded a capital gain of $350,000. Our ability to maintain and improve future levels of sales and profitability depends on many factors. These factors include: — the continued demand for our existing products; — our ability to develop and sell new products to meet customer needs; — management's ability to control costs and successfully implement our business strategy; and — our ability to manufacture and deliver products in a timely manner. There can be no assurance that we will experience any growth in sales or achieve profitability in the future or that the levels of historic sales or profitability experienced during previous years will continue in the future or that our net losses will not increase in the future. Fluctuations in our operating results could result in lowered prices, and we may be unable to maintain our gross profit margins. Our sales and profitability may vary in any given year, and from quarter to quarter. In order to increase sales and enter into new markets with new products we may find it necessary to decrease prices in order to be competitive. Additionally, the gross profit margin of our subsidiary, Odem, whose sales accounted for 75% of our total sales in 2005, tends to fluctuate. We may not be able to maintain current gross profit margins in the future, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. We have limited capital resources and we may encounter difficulties raising capital. Continued expansion requires additional resources and especially working capital. If our efforts to raise capital do not succeed, our efforts to increase our business and to compete in the marketplace may be seriously jeopardized, which would have a materially adverse effect on our business. 4 A significant part of the revenues of our wholly-owned subsidiary, Odem Electronic Technologies 1992 Ltd. (“Odem”), is from one major customer. Our business relationship with such customer involves the following risks: — An interruption in our business relationship with such customer would materially adversely impact our financial results. Sales to this customer accounted for 14% of our revenues in year 2005. An interruption in our business relationship with such customer would result in a significant reduction in our revenues and in a write-off of inventory, and would have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. — Significant appreciation in the cost price of electronic components under a long term sales agreement with a fixed sales price with this customer, may materially adversely impact our financial results. In September 2004, Odem entered into a long term sales agreement with the aforementioned customer for the supply of electronic components. The agreement provides for a fixed sales price of the components during the term of the agreement thru December 2008. Absent the flexibility to increase our prices as a result of increased costs of the components, significant increased costs may adversely impact our financial results. — The relationship with this customer requires us to hold large inventory, in order to meet its short lead time and delivery requirements. If we are unable to sell this inventory on a timely basis, we could incur charges for excess and obsolete inventory which would materially adversely affect our results of operations. Under the agreement with Odem’s aforementioned major customer, we are obligated to hold inventory of products necessary for three months of the customer’s production. This requires us to incur the costs of purchasing inventory without having an outstanding purchase order for the products. If we are unable to sell products that are purchased to hold in inventory, we may incur write offs and write downs as a result of slow moving items, technological obsolescence, excess inventories, discontinued products and products with market prices lower than cost. Such write-offs and write-downs could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We may be unable to maintain and continue developing marketing and distribution arrangements and expand our reach into oversea markets. Additionally, we have limited experience in selling in the Far East, which could have a materially adverse impact on our results of operation. In 2005, nearly half of our revenues were generated from sales outside Israel. If we are not able to maintain our existing distribution channels and expand to new international markets, our operating results may be materially adversely affected. Additionally, in 2005, our sales to the Far East accounted for 22% of our total sales. We have limited sales and marketing experience in the Far East. Furthermore, in October 2005 Odem’s major supplier to the Far East territory, opened headquarters in China. If we are unable to continue to achieve the same Far East sale levels as were achieved in 2005, our business condition and results of operation may be materially adversely affected. 5 We recently sold our Communication segment to IP Gear Ltd., a subsidiary of Qualmax Inc., in exchange for shares of Qualmax Inc. Common Stock. If Qualmax is not successful in its business, we may lose the value of our investment. On December 31, 2005 we closed a transaction for the sale of our Communications segment to IP Gear Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of Qualmax Inc. (the “Qualmax Transaction”). The consideration was comprised mostly of common stock of Qualmax Inc. Qualmax Inc. has a limited operating history on which to judge whether or not this company will be successful. If Qualmax is not successful in its business, we may lose the value of our investment, and be required to record an impairment of the investment, which could materially affect our results of operation. Additionally, we are entitled to earn out shares in 2006 based upon revenues that IP Gear will generate from the sold segment, however there is no assurance that the revenues shall be such that will grant us such earn out shares. For additional information on the Qualmax Transaction see Item 4B. We have limited order backlog. If revenue levels for any quarter fall below our expectations, our result of operation will be adversely affected. We have a limited order backlog, which makes revenues in any quarter substantially dependent on orders received and delivered in that quarter. We base our decisions regarding our operating expenses on anticipated revenue trends, and our expenses level are relatively fixed, or require some time for adjustment. Hence, revenue levels below our expectations will adversely affect our results of operation. In 2004 we completed the acquisition of a controlling stake in Odem. In September 2005, we acquired another 23.9% of Odem’s shares and in November 2005, we increased our holdings in Odem to 100%. The integration of this acquisition may interrupt the activities of the combined companies and could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects. Our acquisition of Odem involved the integration of a company that had previously operated independently. The difficulties of combining Odem’s operations with our other operations included, and continue to be, but are not limited to: the necessity of coordinating geographically separate organizations and integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds, potential difficulties in retaining employees and the associated adverse effects on relationships with existing partners. The integration may interrupt the activities of the combined companies’ businesses and may result in the loss of key personnel. This could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects. The sales of our Connectivity products in the US depend on one master distributor. In the event that we cease working with the master distributor, we may experience an interruption in sales until an alternative source of distribution can be found, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. We market Connectivity products in the USA through one master distributor. In 2005, our sales of Connectivity products in the US market accounted for 9% of our total sales and approximately 23% of our gross profit. In the event that we cease working with the master distributor, we may experience an interruption in sales until an alternative source of distribution can be found, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. We are engaged in a highly competitive industry, and if we are unable to keep up with or ahead of the technology our sales could be adversely affected. We offer our Connectivity solutions to the IBM midrange computer communications market. IBM sells competing products to our own, and can exercise significant customer influence and technology control in the IBM host connectivity market. We may experience increased competition in the future from IBM or other competitors, which may adversely affect our ability to successfully market our products and services. We also compete against various companies that offer computer communications products based on other technologies that in certain circumstances can be competitive in price and performance to our products. There can be no assurance that these or other technologies will not capture a significant part of the existing or potential IBM midrange computer communications market. 6 The market for our products is also characterized by significant price competition. We may therefore face increasing pricing pressures. There can be no assurance that competitors will not develop features or functions similar to those of our products, or that we will be able to maintain a cost advantage or that new companies will not enter these markets. Some of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, access to larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than ours. As a result, they may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products, than us. In late 2002 we decided to wind up the business of our subsidiary, Pacific Information Systems, Inc. (“PacInfo”), due to its severe financial situation. The wind up process was accompanied by settlements with a majority but not all of PacInfo’s creditors. An action by any of such remaining creditors would result in additional costs to the Company. Furthermore, certain actions involving PacInfo, if occurred before the end of 2003, may have triggered a tax event for PacInfo former owners (the “Sellers”). In such event, we may be obligated, under the purchase agreement, to grant the Sellers a loan on a full recourse basis for certain tax payments the Sellers may be liable for, currently estimated at approximately $2 million. The purchase agreement provides that the Company is to receive a security interest in shares of the Company that the Sellers hold at the time of the loan with a fair market value as of the date of the loan of at least 125% of the amount of the loan as security for the repayment of the loan. In addition, in the event we are required to loan such sum to the Sellers, we may also be required to reimburse the Sellers for certain interest on taxes that they may owe. It is possible that the windup of PacInfo during 2002 and 2003 may have triggered such a tax event for the Sellers, which would result in our obligation to loan the Sellers such amount and to reimburse them for interest expenses incidental to the tax event. Such a loan and reimbursement may have a material adverse effect on our business condition and results of operations. If actual market conditions prove less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write-downs may be required. Inventories may be written down for estimated obsolescence based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions and such write-downs could adversely affect our business condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2005, inventory is presented net of $100,000 general provision for technological obsolescence and slow moving items. Our acquisitions, to date, have not always proved successful. Over the past years we have pursued the acquisition of businesses, products and technologies that are complementary to ours. However, our acquisitions have not always proven, in the aftermath, to be successful. In June 1998, we acquired PacInfo, which was based in Portland, Oregon, and in 2001 PacInfo acquired Dean Technologies LLC (“Dean Tech”), which was based in Grapevine, Texas. Both businesses have since ceased operations. In September 2004, we acquired the majority of the assets of Quasar Communications Systems Ltd., which we sold, as part of the sale of the Communication Solutions segment in 2005, as the segment did not fare well. 7 Acquisitions involve a number of risks, including the difficulty of assimilating geographically diverse operations and personnel of the acquired businesses or activities and of maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies. There can be no assurance that we will not encounter these and other problems in connection with any future acquisitions we may undertake. There can be no assurance that we will ultimately be effective in executing additional acquisitions. Any failure to effectively execute and integrate future acquisitions could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. We depend on certain key products for the bulk of our sales and if sales of these products decline, it would have a material adverse effect on us. Our IBM midrange related products contributed 30% of our gross profit in year 2005. If sales of our IBM midrange products were to decline significantly for any reason, or the profit margins on such products were to decrease significantly for any reason (including in response to competitive pressures), our financial results would be adversely affected. Over the past few years there has been a continuous global decrease in sales and revenues from the connectivity solutions sector (also known as the legacy family products) (see Item 4B). To reduce the risk of such a decline or decrease due to competitive pressures or technical obsolescence, we are continually seeking to reduce costs, upgrade and expand the features of our IBM related products, expand the applications for which the products can be used and increase marketing efforts to generate new sales. Although we are developing and introducing new remote date access communication products and increasing our marketing efforts, there can be no assurance that the planned enhancements or the new developments will be commercially successful, or that we will be able to increase sales of our IBM midrange products. If we are unsuccessful in developing and introducing new products, we may be unable to expand our business. The market for some of our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards. The introduction of products embodying new technology and the emergence of new industry standards can render existing products obsolete and unmarketable and can exert price pressure on existing products. Our ability to anticipate changes in technology and industry standards and successfully develop and introduce new and enhanced products as well as additional applications for existing products, in each case on a timely basis, will be critical in our ability to grow and remain competitive. Although these products are related to, and even incorporate our existing products, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop and market any such new products. If we are unable to develop products that are competitive in technology and price and responsive to customer needs, for technological or other reasons, our business will be materially adversely affected. We depend on key personnel and need to be able to retain them and our other employees. Our success depends, to a significant extent, on the continued active participation of our executive officers, other members of management and key technical and sales and marketing personnel. In addition, there is significant competition for employees with technical expertise in our industry. Our success will depend, in part on: — our ability to retain the employees who have assisted in the development of our products; — our ability to attract and retain additional qualified personnel to provide technological depth and support to enhance existing products and develop new products; and — our ability to attract and retain highly skilled computer operating, marketing and financial personnel. 8 We cannot make assurances that we will be successful in attracting, integrating, motivating and retaining key personnel. If we are unable to retain our key personnel and attract additional qualified personnel as and when needed, our business may be adversely affected. We may be unable to successfully defend ourselves against claims brought against us. We are defendants in a number of lawsuits filed against us, and from time to time may receive written demands for payments from prospective plaintiffs, in the normal course of our business (for details regarding currently pending material claims or demands, see Item 8). Legal proceedings can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations, and can require extensive management attention and resources regardless of their merit. Moreover, we cannot predict the result of all proceedings and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in defending ourselves against them. An unfavorable resolution of a lawsuit or proceeding could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We depend on third parties licenses for the development of our products. Third party developers or owners of technologies may not be willing to enter into, or renew, license agreements with us regarding technologies that we may wish to incorporate in our products, either on acceptable terms or at all. If we cannot obtain licenses to these technologies, we may be at a disadvantage compared with our competitors who are able to license these technologies. In addition, when we do obtain licenses to third party technologies that we did not develop, we may have little or no ability to determine in advance whether the technology infringes the intellectual property rights of others. Our suppliers and licensors may not be required or may not be able to indemnify us in the event that a claim of infringement is asserted against us, or they may be required to indemnify us only up to a maximum amount, above which we would be responsible for any further costs or damages. Additionally, from time to time there may arise disputes with respect to royalties owed to third parties from which we obtained licenses. Indemnification of Directors and Officers The Company has agreements with its directors and senior officers which provide, subject to Israeli law, for the Company to indemnify these directors and senior officers for (a) monetary liability imposed upon them in favor of a third party by a judgment, including a settlement or an arbitral award confirmed by the court, as a result of an act or omission of such person in his capacity as a director or officer of the Company, (b) reasonable litigation expenses, including advocates’ professional fees, incurred by them pursuant to an investigation or a proceeding commenced against them by a competent authority and that was terminated without an indictment and without having a monetary charge imposed on them in exchange for a criminal procedure (as such terms are defined in the Companies Law), or that was terminated without an indictment but with a monetary charge imposed on them in exchange for a criminal procedure in a crime that does not require proof of criminal intent, as a result of an act or omission of such person in his capacity as a director or officer of the Company, and (c) reasonable litigation expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by such a director or officer or imposed on him by a court, in a proceeding brought against him by or on behalf of the Company or by a third party, or in a criminal action in which he was acquitted, or in a criminal action which does not require criminal intent in which he was convicted, in each case relating to acts or omissions of such person in his capacity as a director or officer of the Company. Such indemnification may materially adversely affect our financial condition. 9 We may be unable to effectively manage our growth and expansion, and as a result, our business results may be adversely affected. Our goal is to grow significantly over the next few years. The management of our growth, if any, will require the continued expansion of our operational and financial control systems, as well as a significant increase in our manufacturing, testing, quality control, delivery and service capabilities. These factors could place a significant strain on our resources. Our inability to meet our manufacturing and delivery commitments in a timely manner (as a result of unexpected increases in orders, for example) could result in losses of sales, our exposure to contractual penalties, costs or expenses, as well as damage to our reputation in the marketplace. Our inability to manage growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The measures we take in order to protect our intellectual property may not be effective or sufficient. Our success is dependent upon our proprietary rights and technology. We currently rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright and trademark law, together with non-disclosure and invention assignment agreements, to establish and protect the proprietary rights and technology used in our products. Much of our proprietary information is not patentable. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, customers and potential customers and limit the access to and the distribution of our proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology without authorization, or to develop similar technology independently. We do not believe that our products and proprietary rights infringe upon the proprietary rights of others. However, there can be no assurance that any other party will not argue otherwise. The cost of responding and adequately protecting ourselves against any such assertion may be material, whether or not the assertion is valid. Further, the laws of certain countries in which we sell our products do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Substantial unauthorized use of our products could have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot make assurances that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technology. Additionally, there are risks that arise from the use of intranet networks and the Internet. Although we utilize firewalls and protection software, we cannot be sure that our proprietary information is secured against penetration. Such penetration, if occurs, could have an adverse effect on our business. We rely on certain key suppliers for the supply of components in our products. We purchase certain components and subassemblies used in our existing products from a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers. In the event that any of our suppliers or subcontractors becomes unable to fulfill our requirements in a timely manner, we may experience an interruption in production until an alternative source of supply can be obtained. One of Odem’s major suppliers accounted for 25% of our purchases in the year 2005. An interruption in our business relationship with such supplier would have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. New industry standards, the modification of our products to meet additional existing standards or the addition of features to our products may delay the introduction of our products or increase our costs. The industry standards that apply to our Connectivity segment products are continually evolving. In addition, since our products are integrated into networks consisting of elements manufactured by various companies, they must comply with a number of industry standards and practices established by various international bodies and industry forums. Should new standards gain broad acceptance, we will be required to adopt those standards in our products. We may also decide to modify our products to meet additional existing standards or add features to our products. It may take us a significant amount of time to develop and design products incorporating these new standards. A prolonged disruption in supply may force us to redesign and retest our products. 10 There can be no assurance that we will not be classified as a passive foreign investment company (a “PFIC”). Based upon our current and projected income, assets and activities, we do not believe that at this time BOS is a passive foreign investment company (a “PFIC”) for US federal income tax purposes, but there can be no assurance that we won’t be classified as such in the future. Such classification may have grave tax consequences for US shareholders. One method of avoiding such tax consequences is by making a “qualified electing fund” election for the first taxable year in which the Company is a PFIC. However, such an election is conditioned upon our furnishing US shareholders annually with certain tax information. We do not presently prepare or provide such information, and such information may not be available to US shareholders if we are subsequently determined to be a PFIC. We may be required to pay stamp taxes on documents executed by us on or after June 2003. The Israeli Stamp Tax on Documents Law, 1961, or the “Stamp Tax Law”, provides that certain documents signed by Israeli companies are subject to a stamp tax, generally at a rate of between 0.4% and 1% of the value of the subject matter of the applicable document. As a result of an amendment to the Stamp Tax Law that came into effect in June 2003, the Israeli tax authorities have commenced enforcement of the provisions of the Stamp Tax Law. Consequently, we may be liable to pay stamp taxes on some or all of the documents we have signed since June 2003, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Recently promulgated regulations provide for the cancellation of the stamp tax with respect to documents signed from January 1, 2006 onwards. We have significant sales worldwide and could encounter problems if conditions change in the places where we market our products. We have sold and intend to continue to sell our products in markets through distributors in North America, Europe and Asia. A number of risks are inherent in engaging in international transactions, including – — international sales and operations being limited or disrupted by longer sales and payment cycles, — possible problems in collecting receivables, — imposition of governmental controls, or export license requirements , — political and economic instability in foreign countries, — trade restrictions or changes in tariffs being imposed, and — laws and legal issues concerning foreign countries. If we should encounter such difficulties in conducting our international operations, it may adversely affect our business condition and results of operations. The slow down in technology markets and technology-focused corporations in prior years has had an adverse impact on us and the value of our shares. Our Company, like other technology companies, has been significantly impacted by the current market slowdown in the technology industry in prior years. There can be no assurance that the technology market will fully recover or that our operating results will not continue to suffer as a consequence. 11 Inflation and foreign currency fluctuations significantly impact on our business results. The vast majority of our sales are made in US Dollars and most of our expenses are in US Dollars and New Israel Shekels (“NIS”). The Dollar cost of our operations in Israel is influenced by the extent to which any increase in the rate of inflation in Israel over the rate of inflation in the United States is offset by the devaluation of the NIS in relation to the Dollar. Our Dollar costs in Israel will increase if inflation in Israel exceeds the devaluation of the NIS against the Dollar or if the timing of such devaluations lags behind inflation rate increases in Israel. If we are forced to repay our secured convertible note in cash, we may not have enough cash to fund our operations and may not be able to obtain additional financing. Our secured convertible term note issued in September 2005, contains certain provisions and restrictions, which if violated, could result in the full principal amount together with interest and other amounts becoming immediately due and payable in cash. If such an event occurred and if the holder of such note demanded repayment, we might not have the cash resources to repay such indebtedness when due. The note is repayable in monthly installments commencing January 1, 2006, with principal payments which start at $15,000 and increase to $55,200. Subject to certain conditions, the monthly principal and interest payment on the note may be paid in cash or ordinary shares. If we are required to pay the note in cash rather than ordinary shares, it would reduce the amount of cash available to fund operations. Also, in connection with the issuance of the note, we agreed to certain restrictions upon incurring additional indebtedness such as in case of certain mergers and acquisitions. The existence of debt service obligations and the terms and anti-dilution provisions of the note may limit our ability to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. If the investor in our convertible note financing converts or exercises its warrants, or if we elect to pay principal and/or interest on the note with our ordinary shares, our existing shareholders will be diluted. In addition, sales of substantial amounts of our ordinary shares could cause the market price to go down. To the extent that the note is converted and/or the warrants that were issued with the note are exercised, a significantly greater number of our ordinary shares will be outstanding and the interests of our existing shareholders will be diluted. If these additional shares are sold into the market, it could decrease the market price of our ordinary shares and encourage short sales although the purchaser of the note has agreed to not engage in short sales of our ordinary shares. Short sales and other hedging transactions could place further downward pressure on the price of our ordinary shares. We cannot predict whether or how many of our ordinary shares will become issuable as a result of these provisions. Risks related to our location in Israel: Political, economic, and security conditions in Israel affect our operations and may limit our ability to produce and sell our products or provide our services. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel, where we also maintain our headquarters and our principal manufacturing, research and development facilities. Political, economic, security and military conditions in Israel directly influence us. We could be adversely affected by any major hostilities involving Israel, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel. The future of the “peace process” with the Palestinians is uncertain and has deteriorated due to Palestinian violence. Furthermore, the threat of a large-scale attack by Palestinians on Israeli civilians and key infrastructure remains a constant fear. The past few years of renewed terrorist attacks by the Palestinians has severely affected the Israeli economy in many ways. In January 2006, Hamas, an Islamic movement responsible for many attacks against Israelis, won the majority of the seats in the Parliament of the Palestinian Authority. The election of a majority of Hamas-supported candidates is expected to be a major obstacle to relations between Israel and the Palestinian Authority, as well as to the stability in the Middle East as a whole. In addition, several countries still restrict business with Israel and with companies doing business in Israel. We could be adversely affected by adverse developments in the “peace process” or by restrictive laws or policies directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses. 12 Generally, all nonexempt male adult citizens and permanent residents of Israel, including some of the our officers and employees, are obligated to perform military reserve duty annually, and are subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. While we have operated effectively under these requirements since its incorporation, we cannot predict the full impact of such conditions on us in the future, particularly if emergency circumstances occur. If many of our employees are called for active duty, our business may be adversely affected. Additionally, in recent years Israel has been going through a period of recession in economic activity, resulting in low growth rates and growing unemployment. Our operations could be adversely affected if the economic conditions in Israel continue to deteriorate. Also, due to significant economic reforms proposed by the Israeli government, there have been several general strikes and work stoppages in 2003 and 2004, affecting all banks, airports and ports. These strikes have had an adverse effect on the Israeli economy and on business. Following the passing of laws to implement economic measures, the Israeli trade unions have threatened further strikes or work stoppages, and these may have an adverse effect on the Israeli economy and our business. Furthermore, Israel is a party to certain trade agreements with other countries, and material changes to these agreements could have an adverse effect on our business. If the Israeli Government programs that we benefit from are reduced or terminated, our costs and taxes may increase. Under the Israeli Law for Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959, facilities that meet certain conditions can apply for “Approved Enterprise” status (or be a “Benefited Enterprise”, if qualified, without prior application and approval). This status confers certain benefits including tax benefits. The existing facilities of our wholly owned subsidiary, BOScom, have been designated as Approved Enterprises. If we attain taxable income in Israel, these tax benefits will help reduce BOScom’s tax burden. In order to maintain our eligibility for the grants and tax benefits BOScom receives, BOScom must continue to satisfy certain conditions, including making certain investments in fixed assets and operations and achieving certain levels of exports. If BOScom fails to satisfy such conditions in the future, BOScom could be required to refund tax benefits which may have been received, with interest and linkage differences to the Israeli Consumer Price Index. The Israeli Government authorities have indicated that the government may reduce or eliminate these benefits in the future. A termination or reduction of certain programs and tax benefits (particularly benefits available to BOScom as a result of the Approved Enterprise status of the BOScom’s facilities and programs) would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. The anti-takeover effects of Israeli laws may delay or deter a change of control of the Company. Under the Israeli Companies Law, a merger is generally required to be approved by the shareholders and Board of Directors of each of the merging companies. Shareholder approval isn’t required if the company that will not survive is controlled by the surviving company. Additionally, the law provides some exceptions to the shareholder approval requirement in the surviving company. Shares held by a party to the merger and certain of its affiliates are not counted towards the required approval. If the share capital of the company that will not be the surviving company is divided into different classes of shares, the approval of each class is also required. A merger may not be approved if the surviving company will not be able to satisfy its obligations. At the request of a creditor, a court may block a merger on this ground. In addition, a merger can be completed only after all approvals have been submitted to the Israeli Registrar of Companies, provided that 30 days have elapsed since shareholder approval was received and 50 days have passed from the time that a proposal for approval of the merger was filed with the Registrar. 13 The Israeli Companies Law provides that an acquisition of shares in a public company must be made by means of a tender offer, if as a result of the acquisition, the purchaser would become a holder of 25% or more of the voting power at general meetings, and no other shareholder owns a 25% stake in the Company. Similarly, the Israeli Companies Law provides that an acquisition of shares in a public company must be made by means of a tender offer if, as a result of the acquisition, the purchaser would become a holder of 45% or more of the voting power at general meetings, unless someone else already holds 45% of the voting power. An acquisition from a 25% or 45% holder, which turns the purchaser into a 25% or 45% holder respectively, does not require a tender offer. An exception to the tender offer requirement may also apply when the additional voting power is obtained by means of a private placement approved by the general meeting of shareholders. These rules also do not apply if the acquisition is made by way of a merger. The Israeli Companies Law also provides specific rules and procedures for the acquisition of shares held by minority shareholders, if the majority shareholder shall hold more than 90% of the outstanding shares. These laws may have the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control of the Company, thereby limiting the opportunity for shareholders to receive a premium for their shares and possible affecting the price that some investors are willing to pay for the Company’s securities. All of our directors and officers are non-U.S. residents and enforceability of civil liabilities against them is uncertain. All of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States. Service of process upon them may be difficult to effect within the United States. Furthermore, because the majority of our assets are located in Israel, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of our directors and officers may not be collectible within the United States. Risks related to our ordinary shares: Our share price has been and may continue to be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for individual shareholders. The market price of our ordinary shares has been and may continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. Since January 2005 through May 2006, the daily closing price of our ordinary shares has ranged from $2.15 to $3.74 per share. We believe that these fluctuations have been in response to a number of factors including the following, some of which are beyond our control: — actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; — announcements of technological innovations or new products or services or new pricing practices by us or our competitors; — increased market share penetration by our competitors; — announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; — additions or departures of key personnel; and — sales of additional ordinary shares. 14 In addition, the stock market in general, and stocks of technology companies in particular, have from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility is often unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our actual operating performance. The Company’s shares may be delisted from the Nasdaq National Market for failure to meet Nasdaq’s requirements. In late 2002 and early 2003 the Company received notice from the Nasdaq Stock Market that its ordinary shares were subject to delisting from the Nasdaq National Market for failure to meet Nasdaq’s minimum bid price and shareholders’ equity requirements ($10 million) for continued listing on the National Market. As a result of the hearing requested by the Company and supplemental information presented by the Company to the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel by the Company, the Panel determined to continue the listing of the Company’s securities on the Nasdaq National Market pursuant to a detailed exception to the Nasdaq National Market Rules, and the Company successfully met all the conditions set forth in the exception. On August 30, 2004, we received notice from the Nasdaq Stock Market that our ordinary shares are subject to delisting from the Nasdaq National Market for failure to meet Nasdaq’s minimum market value of publicly held shares requirement ($5 million) for continued listing on the National Market. On November 4, 2004, we were notified by Nasdaq that we have regained compliance with this requirement. On January 25, 2005, we received notice from the Nasdaq Stock Market that we were not in compliance with the minimum $10 million shareholders’ equity requirement for continued listing on the National Market. Following that notice, on January 28, 2005, we received an additional notice indicating that based on further review of our financial statements as they appeared in our filing on Form 6-K dated January 10, 2005, it was determined that the shareholders’ equity was $10,601,000 on a pro forma basis as of September 30, 2004. Therefore we were in compliance with the stockholders’ equity requirement for continued listing on the National Market and the matter had been closed. On June 2, 2005, the Company again received notice from the Nasdaq Stock Market indicating that based on the results for the period ended March 31, 2005, the shareholders’ equity was $9,425,000, and accordingly not in compliance with the minimum $10,000,000 shareholders’ equity requirement for continued listing on the National Market. The Company was requested to provide by June 17, 2005, its specific plan to achieve and sustain compliance with the listing requirements. The Company subsequently submitted a proposed plan of compliance to Nasdaq based upon completing a previously announced private placement offering of its ordinary shares. On July 11, 2005, the Company was advised by the Nasdaq Staff that contingent upon completion of the private placement by August 11, 2005, the Staff believed that the Company had provided a definitive plan evidencing its ability to achieve and sustain compliance with the listing requirements. The private placement took place in June 2005, and consequently the Company regained compliance with Nasdaq’s minimum $10,000,000 shareholders’ equity requirement for continued listing on the National Market. However, the Company has been advised by Nasdaq Staff that the Staff will continue to monitor its ongoing compliance with the stockholder’s equity requirement and, if at the time of the Company’s next periodic report, the Company does not evidence compliance, it may be subject to delisting. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet and continue to meet these or other Nasdaq requirements to maintain our Nasdaq National Market listing, in which case we will have the right to apply for a transfer of our ordinary shares to the Nasdaq Small Cap Market. 15 