Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company’s business, operating results, financial condition, liquidity, and cash flow may be impacted by numerous factors, including but not limited to those discussed below. These items may cause the Company’s results to vary materially from recent results. Risks Related to the Company’s Business Repayment of the Company’s commercial business loans is often dependent on the cash flows of the borrower, which may be difficult to predict, and the collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. The Company offers different types of commercial loans to a variety of businesses. Real estate lending is generally considered to be collateral based lending with loan amounts based on predetermined loan to collateral values. As such, declines in real estate valuations in the Company’s market area would lower the value of the collateral securing these loans. The Company’s commercial business loans are primarily made based on the cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower, with liquidation of the underlying real estate collateral being viewed as the primary source of repayment in the event of borrower default. The borrowers’ cash flow may be difficult to predict, and collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. The repayment of commercial business loans depends primarily on the cash flow and credit worthiness of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. Although commercial business loans are often collateralized by equipment, inventory, accounts receivable, or other business assets, the liquidation of collateral in the event of default is often an insufficient source of repayment. As of December 31, 2012, commercial and commercial real estate loans totaled $2.0 billion or 67.6% of total loans. As part of the Company’s commercial business lending activities, the Company originates agricultural loans, consisting of agricultural real estate loans and agricultural operating loans. As of December 31, 2012, $129.3 million or 4.4% of the Company’s total loan portfolio consisted of agriculturally-related loans, including $51.6 million in agricultural real estate loans and $77.8 million in agricultural operating loans. Payments on agricultural loans, primarily dairy loans, are dependent on the profitable operation or management of the related farm property. The success of the farm may be affected by many factors outside the control of the borrower, including adverse weather conditions that prevent the planting of a crop or limit crop yields, declines in market prices for agricultural products and the impact of governmental regulations and subsidies. In 2009, low milk prices and generally weak economic conditions led to weak financial results for many farms in the Company’s primary market areas, which led to an increase in the Company’s internally criticized and classified agricultural loans. Milk prices rebounded in 2010 and remain above the low levels of 2009. As a result, many of the Company’s agricultural customers reported improved operating results and financial conditions, which led to an upgrade in risk ratings for several agricultural loans in 2011 and 2012. Many farms are dependent upon a limited number of key individuals whose injury or death may significantly affect the successful operation of the farm. If the cash flow from a farming operation is diminished, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. While agricultural operating loans are generally secured by a blanket lien on the farm’s operating assets, any repossessed collateral in respect of a defaulted loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment of the outstanding balance. 14 Declines in asset values may result in impairment charges and may adversely affect the value of the Company’s investments, financial performance, and capital. A majority of the Company’s investment portfolio is comprised of securities which are collateralized by residential mortgages. These residential mortgage-backed securities include securities of U.S. government agencies, U.S. government-sponsored entities, and private-label collateralized mortgage obligations (“CMOs”). The Company’s securities portfolio also includes obligations of U.S. government-sponsored entities, obligations of states and political subdivisions thereof, U.S. corporate debt securities and equity securities. A more detailed discussion of the investment portfolio, including types of securities held, the carrying and fair values, and contractual maturities is provided in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Report. The fair value of investments may be affected by factors other than the underlying performance of the issuer or composition of the obligations themselves, such as rating downgrades, adverse changes in the business climate and a lack of liquidity for resale of certain investment securities. The Company periodically, but not less than quarterly, evaluates investments and other assets for impairment indicators. Under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, declines in the fair value of held-to-maturity and available-for-sale securities below their cost that are deemed to be other than temporary are reflected in earnings to the extent the impairment is related to credit losses. The amount of the impairment related to other non-credit related factors for available-for-sale securities is recognized in other comprehensive income provided that the Company does not intend to sell the underlying debt security and it is more-likely-than not that the Company would not have to sell the debt security prior to recovery of the unrealized loss, which may be to maturity. If the Company intended to sell any securities with an unrealized loss or it is more-likely-than not that the Company would be required to sell the investment securities, before recovery of their amortized cost basis, then the entire unrealized loss would be recorded in earnings. The fair value of certain investments in the Company’s securities portfolio, and the amount of any recorded charges for other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”) during the most recent fiscal year, are discussed in Part II, Item 8 of this Report on Form 10-K. Given the market conditions and the significant judgments involved, there is risk that further declines in fair value may occur and additional OTTI charges may be recorded in earnings in future periods. As of December 31, 2012, the Company has $110.9 million of goodwill and other intangible assets. The Company is required to test our goodwill for impairment on a periodic basis. A significant decline in the Company’s expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in business climate, slower growth rates or a significant and sustained decline in the price of the Company’s common stock, may necessitate taking charges in the future related to the impairment of the Company’s goodwill and intangible assets. If an impairment determination is made in a future reporting period, the Company’s earnings and the book value of these intangible assets would be reduced by the amount of the impairment. The Company may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of counterparty relationships. The Company has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry. The most important counterparty for the Company, in terms of liquidity, is the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York (“FHLBNY”). With the recent acquisition of VIST, the Company also has a relationship with the Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh (“FHLBPITT”). The Company uses FHLBNY as its primary source of overnight funds and also has long-term advances and repurchase agreements with FHLBNY. The Company has placed sufficient collateral in the form of commercial and residential real estate loans at FHLBNY. In addition, the Company is required to hold stock in FHLBNY and FHLBPITT. The amount of borrowed funds and repurchase agreements with the FHLBNY and FHLBPITT, and the amount of FHLBNY and FHLBPITT stock held by the Company, at its most recent fiscal year end are discussed in Part II, Item 8 of this Report on Form 10-K. There are 12 branches of the FHLB, including New York and Pittsburgh. The FHLBNY and the FHLBPITT are jointly and severally liable along with the other Federal Home Loan Banks for the consolidated obligations issued on behalf of the Federal Home Loan Banks through the Office of Finance. Dividends on, redemption of, or repurchase of shares of the FHLBNY’s or FHLBPITT’s capital stock cannot occur unless the principal and interest due on all consolidated obligations have been paid in full. If another Federal Home Loan Bank were to default on its obligation to pay principal or interest on any consolidated obligations, the Federal Home Loan Finance Agency (the “Finance Agency”) may allocate the outstanding liability among one or more of the remaining Federal Home Loan Banks on a pro rata basis or on any other basis the Finance Agency may determine. As a result, the FHLBNY’s or FHLBPITT’s ability to pay dividends on, to redeem, or to repurchase shares of capital stock could be affected by the financial condition of one or more of the other Federal Home Loan Banks. However, no Federal Home Loan Bank has ever defaulted on its debt since the FHLB System was established in 1932. Due to improved financial performance, the FHLBPITT began repurchasing member's excess capital stock in 2011, and began paying a dividend on member's outstanding capital stock balances in 2012. 15 Systemic weakness in the FHLB could result in higher costs of FHLB borrowings, reduced value of FHLB stock, and increased demand for alternative sources of liquidity that are more expensive, such as brokered time deposits, the discount window at the Federal Reserve, or lines of credit with correspondent banks. The Company relies on cash dividends from its subsidiaries to fund its operations, and payment of those dividends could be discontinued at any time. The Company is a financial holding company whose principal assets and sources of income are its wholly-owned subsidiaries. The Company is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries, and therefore the Company relies primarily on dividends from these banking and other subsidiaries to meet its obligations and to provide funds for the payment of dividends to the Company’s shareholders, to the extent declared by the Company’s board of directors. Various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that a bank may pay to its parent company and impose regulatory capital and liquidity requirements on the Company and its banking subsidiaries. In addition, as discussed in greater detail in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Report, during the first quarter of 2010 the OCC notified the Company that it was requiring Mahopac National Bank to maintain certain minimum capital ratios at levels higher than those otherwise required by applicable regulations, which could limit that subsidiary’s ability to pay dividends to the Company. The OCC notified the Company in the first quarter of 2013 that it was no longer requiring Mahopac to maintain these certain minimum capital ratios. Further, as a holding company, the Company’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon the liquidation or reorganization of a subsidiary is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors (including, in the case of the Company’s banking subsidiaries, the banks’ depositors). The inability to receive dividends from its subsidiaries materially and adversely affects the Company’s liquidity and its ability to service its debt, pay its other obligations, or pay cash dividends on its common or preferred stock. The Company’s business may be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and local and national economies. General economic conditions impact the banking and financial services industry. The Company’s financial performance generally, and in particular, the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay the principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing these loans, is highly dependent upon the business environment in the markets where the Company operates. Although the Company serves numerous market areas within New York State and Pennsylvania, the Company is still dependent on the economic conditions of these two states. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions could lead to credit quality concerns related to repayment ability and collateral protection as well as reduced demand for the services offered by the Company’s three business segments. From 2007 to mid-2009, the U.S. economy was in a recession. During this period and for several years after, economic conditions were weak as evidenced by a weak housing market with falling home prices and rising foreclosures, higher unemployment, difficulties in financial and credit markets, slowdown in consumer spending, a decrease in consumer confidence, and generally reduced business activity across a wide range of industries and regions in the U.S. While certain economic indicators have started to show signs of improvement there is much debate over the strength and sustainability of the upturn and weaknesses remain such as high unemployment. There is no assurance that this improvement will continue. A downturn in the economy or financial markets could adversely affect the credit quality of the Company’s loan portfolio, results of operations and financial condition. Economic downturns could affect the volume of income and demand for fee-based services. Revenues from the trust and wealth management businesses are dependent on the level of assets under management. Market volatility that leads customers to pull money out the market or lower equity and bond prices can reduce the Company’s asset under management and thereby decrease revenues. The Company is subject to interest rate risk. The Company’s earnings, financial condition and liquidity are susceptible to fluctuations in market interest rates. This exposure is a result of assets and liabilities repricing at different times and by different amounts as interest rates change. Net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and interest paid on deposits and borrowings, is the largest component of the Company’s total revenues. The level of net interest income is dependent upon the volume and mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, the level of nonperforming assets, and the level and trend of interest rates. Changes in market interest rates will also affect the level of prepayments on the Company’s loans and payments on mortgage-backed securities, resulting in the receipt of proceeds that may be reinvested at a lower rate than the loan or mortgage-backed security being prepaid. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including: inflation, economic growth, employment levels, monetary policy and international markets. Significant fluctuations in interest rates could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s earnings, financial condition, and liquidity. 16 The Company manages interest rate risk using an income simulation to measure interest rate risk inherent in its on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments at a given point in time by showing the potential effect of interest rate shifts on net interest income for future periods. Each quarter the Company’s Asset/Liability Management Committee reviews the simulation results to determine whether the exposure of net interest income to changes in interest rates remains within Board-approved levels. The Committee also discusses strategies to manage this exposure and incorporates these strategies into the investment and funding decisions of the Company. In addition, the Company has focused on expanding its fee-based business to help mitigate its exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, and the impact on the Company’s earnings. For additional information about how the Company manages its interest rate risk, refer to Part II, Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” of this Report. The Company is subject to liquidity risk. Liquidity risk refers to the Company’s ability to ensure sufficient cash flow and liquid assets are available to satisfy current and future financial obligations, including demand for loans and deposits withdrawals, funding operating costs, and for other corporate purposes. In addition to cash flow and short-term investments, the Company obtains funding through deposits and various short-term and long-term wholesale borrowings, including Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase, brokered certificates of deposit, and borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York (“FHLBNY”) and Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh (“FHLBPITT”) and others. The Company also maintains available lines of credit with the FHLBNY and FHLBPITT that are secured by loans. Management closely monitors its liquidity position for compliance with internal policies and is comfortable that available sources of liquidity are adequate to meet funding needs in the normal course of business. The Company operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely impacted by changes in laws and regulations. The Company is subject to extensive state and federal laws and regulations, supervision, and legislation that affect how it conducts its business. The majority of these laws and regulations are for the protection of consumers, depositors and the deposit insurance funds. The regulations influence such things as the Company’s lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, and dividend policy. The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010, represents a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services industry in the United States and requires federal agencies to implement many new rules. Any changes to state and federal banking laws and regulations may negatively impact the Company’s ability to expand services and to increase shareholder value. There can also be significant costs related to compliance with various laws and regulations. The Company has established an extensive internal control structure to ensure compliance with governing laws and regulations, including those related to financial reporting. Refer to “Supervision and Regulation” for additional information on laws and regulations. As discussed above under the “Supervision and Regulation” section, Basel III and the Dodd-Frank Act would require the federal banking agencies to establish stricter risk-based capital requirements and leverage limits to apply to banks and bank holding companies. Under the legislation, the federal banking agencies would be required to develop capital requirements that address systemically-risky activities. The capital rules must address, at a minimum, risks arising from significant volumes of activity in derivatives, securities products, financial guarantees, securities borrowing and lending and repurchase agreements; concentrations in assets for which reported values are based on models; and concentrations in market share for any activity that would substantially disrupt financial markets if the institutions were forced to unexpectedly cease the activity. These requirements, and any other new regulations, could adversely affect the Company’s ability to pay dividends, or could require it to reduce business levels or to raise capital, including in ways that may adversely affect its results of operations or financial condition. The Company is subject to state and federal tax laws and regulations. Changes to these regulations could impact future tax expense and the value of deferred tax assets. Three of the Company’s banking subsidiaries are each a majority owner of a real estate investment trust (“REIT”). Legislation is periodically proposed at the State level that would change the treatment of dividends paid by the REITs. Changes to the laws governing the taxation of REITs would likely result in additional income tax expense. The Company operates in a highly competitive industry and market areas. Competition for commercial banking and other financial services is strong in the Company’s market areas. In one or more aspects of its business, the Company’s subsidiaries compete with other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, finance companies, Internet-based financial services companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, brokerage and investment banking companies, and other financial intermediaries. Some of these competitors have substantially greater resources and lending capabilities and may offer services that the Company does not currently provide. In addition, many of the Company’s non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive Federal regulations that govern financial holding companies and Federally insured banks. The Company focuses on providing unparalleled customer service, which includes offering a strong suite of products and services. Based upon our ability to grow our customer base in recent years, management feels that this business model does allow the Company to compete effectively in the markets it serves. 17 The Company’s information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. The Company is subject to certain operational risks, including, but not limited to, data processing system failures and errors, customer or employee fraud and catastrophic failures resulting from terrorist acts or natural disasters. The Company depends upon data processing, software, communication, and information exchanged on a variety of computing platforms and networks and over the Internet. Despite instituted safeguards, the Company cannot be certain that all of its systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack or other technological difficulties or failures. If information security is breached or other technology difficulties or failures occur, information may be lost or misappropriated, services and operations may be interrupted and the Company could be exposed to claims from customers. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. The Company maintains a system of internal controls to mitigate against such occurrences and maintains insurance coverage for exposures that are insurable. The Company regularly tests internal controls to ensure that they are appropriate and functioning as designed. The Company is subject to the risks presented by acquisitions, including the 2012 acquisition of VIST Financial. The Company’s strategic initiatives include diversification within its markets, growth of its fee-based businesses, and growth internally and through acquisitions of financial institutions, branches, and financial services businesses. As such, the Company from time to time considers acquiring banks, thrift institutions, branch offices of banks or thrift institutions, or other businesses within markets currently served by the Company or in other locations that would complement the Company’s business or its geographic reach. The Company generally targets merger or acquisition partners that are culturally similar and have experienced management and possess either significant market presence or have potential for improved profitability through financial management, economies of scale and expanded services. The August 1, 2012 acquisition of VIST Financial, as well as any other future acquisitions, will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions. These risks include among other things: the difficulty of integrating operations and personnel, the potential disruption of our ongoing business, the inability of management to maximize financial and strategic position, the inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, and the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of changes in ownership and management. Further, the asset quality or other financial characteristics of an acquired company may deteriorate after the acquisition agreement is signed or after the acquisition closes. As of December 31, 2012, the Company’s loan portfolio included $821.5 million of acquired loans or 27.8% of total loans and leases. This portfolio was not underwritten by the Company at origination and is therefore not necessarily reflective of our historical credit risk experience. The Company performed extensive credit due diligence prior to the VIST Financial acquisition and marked loans to fair value upon acquisition, with such fair valuation considering expected credit losses that existed at the time of acquisition. In addition, the Company evaluates the expected cash flows on these loans. However, there is a risk that credit losses could be larger than currently anticipated, thus adversely impacting the Company’s earnings. Risks Associated with the Company’s Common Stock The Company’s stock price maybe volatile. The Company’s stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors, including: actual or anticipated variations in our operating results; recommendations by securities analysts; significant acquisitions or business combinations; operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to Tompkins; new technology used, or services offered by our competitors; news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; and changes in government regulations. Other factors, including general market fluctuations, industry-wide factors and economic and general political conditions and events, including terrorist attacks, economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, credit loss trends or currency fluctuations, may adversely affect the Company’s stock price even though they do not directly pertain to the Company’s operating results, 18 The trading volume in our common stock is less than that of other larger financial services companies, which may adversely affect the price of our common stock. The Company’s common stock is traded on the NYSE MKT LLC. The trading volume in the Company’s common stock is less than that of other larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the lower trading volume of the Company’s common stock, significant sales of our common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause our stock price to fall. An investment in our common stock is not an insured deposit. The Company’s common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in the Company’s common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you acquire the Company’s common stock, you may lose some or all of your investment. Dividend Payouts Holders of Tompkins’ common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as its board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Tompkins has a long history of paying dividend on its common stock and has increased its cash dividend per share for 24 consecutive years. Tompkins is not required to pay dividends on its common stock and could reduce or eliminate its common stock dividend in the future. This could adversely affect the market price of Tompkins’ common stock. Also, Tompkins is a bank holding company, and its ability to declare and pay dividends is dependent on certain federal regulatory considerations, including the guidelines of the Federal Reserve regarding capital adequacy and dividends. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 