ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following important factors, among others, could cause our actual operating results to differ materially from those indicated or suggested by forward-looking statements made in this Form 10-K or presented elsewhere by management from time to time. We have a history of operating losses, and we may not be profitable. We incurred operating losses for 2005 and for three of the five years ended December 31, 2005. In August 2001, we announced a strategic restructuring of our company that included a 40% reduction in workforce, a realignment of our software and services product lines, and a renewed focus on our existing customers. With the restructuring, we achieved profitability for each fiscal quarter of 2002 and for the year ended December 31, 2002. We incurred operating losses in each of the first three quarters of 2003 but achieved profitability in the fourth quarter of 2003, and for each quarter of 2004. We were profitable for the first, second and fourth quarters of 2005 and had an operating loss for the third quarter of 2005 that caused us to incur an operating loss for 2005. As of December 31, 2005, our accumulated deficit was $19.9 million. Our ability to achieve and maintain profitability is dependent on continued revenue from new and existing customers and expense control. There can be no assurance that we will return to profitability and even if we do achieve profitability, we cannot assure you that we can sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. We are increasingly reliant on fees from maintenance contracts and renewals. If we fail to retain our maintenance customers, our revenues may be adversely affected. We rely on maintenance contract renewals for a significant percentage of our revenue, as renewed software maintenance fees have represented 33%, 35% and 44% of our total revenues in the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. While a maintenance contract on our products is mandatory for the first year after purchase, subsequent renewals of the maintenance contract are at the discretion of our customers. Accordingly, our failure to retain maintenance customers or a significant decline in the rate of maintenance contract renewals could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial position. We rely heavily on indirect distribution channels and strategic partner relationships for the sales of our products. If these relationships are disrupted, our revenues may be adversely affected. We sell our products in part through value-added resellers, systems integrators, original equipment manufacturers and distributors, which are not under our control. Sales of our products by such channel partners represented 62%, 49% and 56% of our product revenues in years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. We rely heavily on our indirect sales partners for sales of our expert operations management products to new customers. The loss of major original equipment manufacturers or resellers of our products, a 12 Table of Contents significant decline in their sales, or difficulty on the part of such third-party developers or resellers in developing successful G2-based applications could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain additional qualified third-party resellers, or that third-party resellers will be able to effectively sell and implement our products. In addition, we rely on third-party resellers to provide post-sales service and support to our customers, and any deficiencies in such service and support could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial position. We depend heavily on our sales and marketing force. Our future success in the expert operations management marketplace will depend, in part, upon the productivity of our sales and marketing personnel, our ability to continue to attract, integrate, train, motivate and retain new sales and marketing personnel, and our ability to manage sales and channel partners. There can be no assurance that our investment in sales and marketing will ultimately prove to be successful. In addition, there can be no assurance that our sales and marketing personnel will be able to compete successfully against the significantly more extensive and better funded sales and marketing operations of many of our current and potential competitors. Our inability to manage our sales and marketing personnel effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, or financial position. Our quarterly operating results may vary, leading to fluctuations in trading prices for our common stock and possible liquidity problems. We have experienced, and may experience in the future, significant quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in our operating results. There can be no assurance that revenue growth or profitable operations can be attained on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Our sales cycle typically ranges from 6 to 12 months, and the cost of acquiring our software, building and deploying applications, and training users represents a significant expenditure for customers. Our relatively long sales cycle and high license fees, together with fixed short-term expenses, can cause significant variations in operating results from quarter to quarter, based on a relatively small variation in the timing of major orders. Factors such as the timing of new product introductions and upgrades and the timing of significant orders could contribute to this quarterly variability. In addition, we ship software products within a short period after receipt of an order and typically do not have a material backlog of unfilled orders of software products. Therefore, revenues from software licenses in any quarter are substantially dependent on orders booked in that quarter. Historically, a majority of each quarter’s revenues from software licenses has come from license contracts that have been executed in the final weeks of that quarter. The revenues for a quarter may include some large orders. If the timing of any of these large orders is delayed, it could result in a substantial reduction in revenues for that quarter. Our expense levels are based in part on expectations of future revenue levels. A shortfall in expected revenues could therefore result in a disproportionate decrease in our results of operations and cash flows, which may impact our ability to continue as an independent concern. Our business may suffer if we fail to remain competitive with other companies offering similar products and services. A number of companies offer products that offer rule engine capabilities or that perform certain functions of G2 for specific applications. In all of our markets, there is competition from “point solutions,” real-time and rule engine products, and internally developed software. There are commercially available software development tools that software application developers or potential customers could use to build software that has functionality similar to our products. In addition, we believe that end users in our markets are increasingly seeking application-specific products and components as well as complete solutions, rather than general software tools to develop application-specific functionality and solutions. Meeting this demand has required us to modify our sales approach. We are increasingly reliant on indirect channel partners, including original equipment manufacturers, value-added resellers, and systems integrators, to satisfy market requirements. A number of software companies offer products that compete in specific 13 Table of Contents application areas addressed by these partners, such as cement kiln control, manufacturing execution systems, logistics systems, and network management, and they could be successful in supplying alternatives to products based on our software. Companies offering competitive rule engine products include Fair Isaac, ILOG, and Computer Associates. Certain companies, such as Micromuse and Aspen Technology, sell “point solutions” that compete with operations management applications based on G2 with respect to specific applications or uses. Several companies, including ILOG, Pavilion, and System Management Arts, offer operations management products with limited real-time, expert system, or fault isolation capabilities, but at lower price points than those provided by us. Certain competitors in this category have greater financial and other resources than we do and might introduce new or improved products to compete with G2, possibly at lower prices. Many of our customers have significant investments in their existing solutions and have the resources necessary to enhance existing products and to develop future products. These customers may develop and incorporate competing technologies into their systems or may outsource responsibility for such systems to others who do not use our products. There is no assurance that we can successfully persuade development personnel within these customers’ organizations to use G2-based products that can cost-effectively compete with their internally developed products. Thus there could be a reduction in the need for our products and services that may limit our future opportunities. We believe that continued investment in research and development and sales and marketing will be required to maintain our competitive position. There can be no assurance that competitors will not develop products or provide services that are superior to our products or services or achieve greater market acceptance. Competitive pressures faced by us could force us to reduce our prices, which could result in reduced profitability. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future sources of competition or that such competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, or financial position. Our business may suffer if we fail to address the challenges associated with international operations. Our international revenues represented 55%, 50%, and 54% of our total revenues for years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. We categorize our revenues according to product shipment destination, which therefore does not necessarily reflect the ultimate country of installation. Our international operations require significant management attention and financial resources. There are certain risks inherent in our international business activities including: • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; • unexpected changes in politics and regulatory requirements; • tariffs and other trade barriers; • costs of localizing products for foreign countries; • lack of acceptance of products in foreign countries; • longer accounts receivable payment cycles; • difficulties in building and managing international operations; • tax issues, including restrictions on repatriating earnings; • weaker intellectual property protection in other countries; • economic weakness or currency related crises that may arise in different countries or geographic regions; and • the burden of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws. 14 Table of Contents These factors may have a material adverse effect on our future international sales and, consequently, on our business, results of operations, cash flows, or financial position We rely heavily on revenues from our G2 and G2-based products. If demand for the G2 product declines, our revenues may be adversely affected. Substantially all of our license revenues are derived from G2, a customizable object-oriented development and deployment platform for building expert operations management systems, and from software application products based on G2 and other core technologies. Accordingly, our business and financial results are substantially dependent upon the continued customer acceptance and deployment of G2 and our other products. The timing of major G2 releases may affect the timing of purchases of our products. We have introduced several G2-based products for building applications and may develop others. We believe that market acceptance of these products will be important to our future growth. There can be no assurance that such products will achieve market acceptance or that new products will be successfully developed. In addition, we rely on many of our distribution partners to develop G2-based products for specialized markets. Accordingly, our business and financial results are also linked to the continued successful product development by our partners and market acceptance of such G2-based products. Any decline in the demand for G2 and our other products, whether as a result of competitive products, price competition, the lack of success of our partners, technological change, the shift in customer demand toward complete solutions, or other factors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, or financial position. Our software is complex and may contain undetected errors. Such errors could cause costly delays in product introduction or require costly software design modifications. Complex software products such as those that we offer may contain unintended errors or failures commonly referred to as “bugs.” There can be no assurance that, despite significant testing by us and by current and potential customers, errors will not be found in new products after commencement of commercial shipments. Although we have not experienced material adverse effects resulting from any such errors or defects to date, there can be no assurance that errors or defects will not be discovered in the future that could cause delays in product introduction and shipments or require design modifications that could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows, or financial position. Sales of our products are highly dependent on our customers’ capital expenditure budgets. If an economic downturn causes our customers to reduce their capital expenditures, our revenues may be adversely affected. Because capital expenditures are often viewed as discretionary by organizations, sales of our products for capital budget projects are subject to general economic conditions. Future recessionary conditions in the industries that use our products may adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows, or financial position. Our business may be adversely affected if we fail to develop new products and respond to changes in technology. The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changes in end-user requirements, and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to enhance our existing products, to introduce new products and features to meet changing customer requirements and emerging industry standards, and to manage transitions from one product release to the next. We have from time to time experienced delays in introducing new products and product enhancements. There can be no assurance that we will not experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of these new products and product enhancements. There also can be no assurance that we will successfully complete the development of new or 15 Table of Contents enhanced products, that we will successfully manage the transition to future versions of G2, or to successor technology, or that our future products will achieve market acceptance. In addition, the introduction of products embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards could render our existing products and products currently under development obsolete and unmarketable. From time to time, new products, capabilities, or technologies may be announced that have the potential to replace or shorten the life cycle of our existing product offerings. There can be no assurance that announcements of currently planned or other new product offerings will not cause customers to defer purchasing our existing products. Our research and development in new reasoning technologies may not lead to profitable commercialization. We developed a pre-release version of a new software reasoning platform, TrueManage, designed for handheld computing devices and targeted at application markets not currently addressed by our G2 and G2-based products. We have also prototyped a TrueManage application product called LifeVisor, a cell phone device for self-management of chronic conditions such as diabetes and obesity. Development of TrueManage and LifeVisor is complex, requiring specialized technical expertise. The targeted handheld computing markets experiences rapid advancements in related technologies and applications. Our strategy was to distribute these products, particularly LifeVisor, through other companies that have significantly larger presence and scale in the targeted markets than we do. We found that it would require significant funding to develop, launch, and build distribution channels for TrueManage and LifeVisor and have therefore suspended development. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully complete the development of TrueManage and LifeVisor in the future. Our ability to use the is technology and realize a return on this investment may be limited. Our stock price may be volatile and an investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. The market price for our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • developments or disputes concerning proprietary rights; • the loss of key management or technical personnel; • technological innovations or new products; • governmental regulatory action; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • general conditions in the software industry; • broad market fluctuations; and • economic conditions in the United States or abroad. The stock market has recently experienced price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations have particularly affected the market price of many software companies, often without regard to their operating performance. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional risks and expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and NASDAQ rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. 16 Table of Contents We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and management time and attention. In particular, our efforts to comply with Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our external auditors’ audit of that assessment has required the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources, and we expect our compliance efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. Additionally, if our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies, our reputation may be harmed, and we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC. Any such action could adversely affect our business and the market price of our stock. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, which limits the liquidity and could negatively affect the value of our common stock. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, which provides significantly less liquidity than a securities exchange, such as the American Stock Exchange, or an automated quotation system, such as the NASDAQ National or SmallCap Market. Purchasers of shares of our common stock may find it difficult to resell their shares at prices quoted in the market or at all. There is currently a limited volume of trading in our common stock, and on some days there has been no trading activity at all. We cannot predict when or whether investor interest in our common stock might lead to an increase in its market price or the development of a more active trading market or how liquid that market might become. Additionally, because our common stock is listed on the OTC Bulletin Board, the liquidity of our common stock is impaired, not only in the number of shares that are bought and sold, but also through delays in the timing of transactions, and limited coverage by security analysts and the news media, if any, of our company. As a result, prices for shares of our common stock may be lower than might otherwise prevail if our common stock was traded on NASDAQ or a national securities exchange, like the American Stock Exchange. Because we rely heavily upon proprietary technology, our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to protect our proprietary technology or if third parties successfully assert infringement claims against us. Our success is heavily dependent upon our proprietary technology. We rely upon a combination of trade secret, contract, copyright, patent, and trademark law to protect our proprietary rights in our products and technology. We enter into confidentiality and/or license agreements with our employees, contractors, third-party resellers, and end users and limit access to and distribution of our software, documentation, and other proprietary information. In addition, we have placed technical inhibitors in our software that prevent such software from running on unauthorized computers. However, effective patent, copyright, and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our products are distributed. There can be no assurance that the steps taken by us to protect our proprietary technology will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology by third parties, or that third parties will not be able to develop similar technology independently. In addition, there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims in the future or that such claims will not be successful. Provisions in our corporate documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change of control of the company, even if that change would be beneficial to our stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may make a change of control of the company difficult, even if it would be beneficial to our stockholders, including provisions governing the classification, nomination and removal of directors, prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, regulating the ability of our stockholders to bring matters for action before annual stockholder meetings, and the authorization given to our board of directors to issue and set the terms of preferred stock. 17 Table of Contents In addition, we have a stockholder rights plan, which would cause extreme dilution to any person or group that attempts to acquire a significant interest in our company without advance approval of our board of directors, and Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law would impose restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15 percent or more of our outstanding common stock. 