Item 1A. Risk Factors. RISK FACTORS Our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially adversely affected by any of the following risks as well as the other risks highlighted elsewhere in this document, particularly the discussions about regulation, competition and intellectual property. The trading price of our Class B common stock and common stock could decline due to any of these risks. Risks Related to Our Telecommunications Businesses Each of our telecommunications business lines is highly sensitive to declining prices, which may adversely affect our revenues and margins. The worldwide telecommunications industry has been characterized in recent years by intense price competition, which has resulted in declines in both our average per-minute price realizations and our average per-minute termination costs, as well as decreases in our revenue. Many of our competitors continue to aggressively price their services. We often notice that many of our competitors, particularly in the U.S. calling card industry, significantly overstate the number of minutes that are actually delivered by their calling cards, thereby hurting our ability to compete effectively. The intense competition has led to continued erosion in our pricing power, both in our retail and wholesale markets, and we have generally had to pass along any savings we achieve on our per-minute costs to our customers in the form of lower prices. Any increase by us in pricing may result in our prices not being as attractive, which may result in a reduction of revenue. If these trends in pricing continue or increase, it could have a material adverse effect on the revenues generated by our telecommunications businesses or our ability to maintain our margins. 19 Table of Contents Because our calling cards generate a significant portion of our revenue, our growth and our results of operations are substantially dependent upon growth in this business, and we continue to face significant competition and other operational challenges in our calling card business which have adversely affected our revenue and profitability in recent years and may continue to adversely affect our revenue and profitability. During fiscal 2009, our Telecom Platform Services segment generated $1,180.7 million in revenues, which accounted for 95.6% of IDT Telecom’s revenues and 76.7% of our total consolidated revenues from continuing operations. Our prepaid products businesses accounted for over 48% of the revenues of our Telecom Platform Services segment in fiscal 2009. Accordingly, our results of operations and future growth depend on the performance of this business. We compete in the prepaid calling card market with many of the established facilities-based carriers, such as at&t and Verizon. These companies are substantially larger and have greater financial, technical, engineering, personnel and marketing resources, longer operating histories, greater name recognition and larger customer bases than we do. The use by these competitors of their resources in the prepaid calling card market could significantly impact our ability to compete against them successfully. In addition to these larger competitors, we face significant competition from smaller calling card providers, who from time-to-time offer rates that are substantially below our rates, and in some instances below what we believe to be the cost to provide the service, in order to gain market share. This type of pricing by one or more competitors can adversely affect our revenues, as they gain market share at our expense, and our gross margins, if we lower rates in order to better compete. We believe one of the reasons that certain of our competitors are able to offer lower pricing is because their cards do not deliver all the minutes they claim to sell. Accordingly, on March 8, 2007, we filed a civil anti-fraud action in the federal district court in Newark, New Jersey, claiming that these competitors have been misleading calling card customers, and as a result, negatively impacting our market share, resulting in a reduction of our revenues and profits. Although the judge in this case chose not to grant the preliminary injunction we requested, a decision which was affirmed on appeal, we are continuing with this lawsuit. We are uncertain, even with the potential of fair competition, whether we will be able to regain revenues lost over the past number of quarters. Additionally, we cannot be assured that our actions will adjust the market so that we can better compete. The continued growth of the use of wireless services, largely due to lower pricing of such services, has adversely affected the sales of our prepaid calling cards as customers migrate from using prepaid calling cards to wireless services. We expect pricing of wireless services to continue to decrease, resulting in increased substitution of prepaid calling cards by wireless services and increased pricing pressure on our prepaid calling cards. We believe that recent immigration trends in the United States may be decreasing our potential customer base. Since immigrants are a target customer base for our prepaid calling card business, their reduced number may have adversely affected our revenues and profitability in that business. If these immigration trends continue or accelerate, our calling card revenues and profitability may continue to be adversely affected. If we are not able to increase or maintain our revenue generated by prepaid calling cards and the associated margins of such revenue, our overall results of operations could continue to materially suffer. Further, if our competitors continue to utilize their greater resources or operate at lower levels of profitability in order to more aggressively market their products and services, or continue to mislead calling card customers, this significant portion of our business could continue to be adversely affected and could continue to generate losses. We may not be able to obtain sufficient or cost-effective termination capacity to particular destinations. Most of our telecommunications traffic is terminated through third-party providers. In order to support our minutes-of-use demands and geographic expansion, we may need to obtain additional termination capacity or destinations. We may not be able to obtain sufficient termination capacity from high-quality carriers to particular destinations or may have to pay significant amounts to obtain such capacity. This could result in our not being able to support our minutes-of-use demands or in a higher cost-per-minute to particular destinations, which could adversely affect our revenues and margins. 20 Table of Contents The termination of our carrier agreements with foreign partners or our inability to enter into carrier agreements in the future could materially and adversely affect our ability to compete, which could reduce our revenues and profits. We rely upon our carrier agreements with foreign partners in order to provide our telecommunications services to our customers. These carrier agreements are for finite terms and, therefore, there can be no guarantee that these agreements will be renewed at all or on favorable terms to us. Our ability to compete would be adversely affected if our carrier agreements were terminated or we were unable to enter into carrier agreements in the future to provide our telecommunications services to our customers, which could result in a reduction of our revenues and profits. Our customers, particularly our wholesale carrier customers, could experience financial difficulties, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability if we experience difficulties in collecting our receivables. As a provider of international long distance services, we depend upon sales of transmission and termination of traffic to other long distance providers and the collection of receivables from these customers. The wholesale market continues to feature many smaller, less financially stable companies. If continued weakness in the telecommunications industry reduces our ability to collect our accounts receivable from our major customers, particularly our wholesale carrier customers, our profitability may be substantially reduced. Moreover, the after effects of the collapse of the mortgage-backed credit markets may affect our customers’ access to liquidity and impair our ability to collect on receivables. While our most significant customers vary from quarter to quarter, our five largest wholesale carrier customers accounted for 5.4% of our total consolidated revenues from continuing operations in fiscal 2009 compared with 6.0% in fiscal 2008. This concentration of revenues increases our exposure to non-payment by our larger customers, and we may experience significant write-offs related to the provision of wholesale carrier services if any of our large customers fail to pay their outstanding balances, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Our revenues will continue to suffer if our distributors and sales representatives fail to effectively market and distribute our prepaid calling card products and other services. We currently rely on our distributors and representatives for marketing and distribution of our prepaid calling card products and other services. Our UTA subsidiary utilizes a network of more than 1,000 sub-distributors (ranging from large companies to sole proprietors) that sell our prepaid calling cards to retail outlets throughout the United States. In foreign countries, we are dependent upon our distributors and independent sales representatives, many of which also sell services or products of other companies. As a result, we cannot control whether these foreign distributors and sales representatives will devote sufficient efforts to selling our services. In addition, we may not succeed in finding capable retailers and sales representatives in new markets that we may enter. If our distributors or sales representatives fail to effectively market or distribute our prepaid calling card products and other services, our ability to generate revenues and grow our customer base could be substantially impaired. Increased competition in the consumer and business telephone market, particularly from the regional bell operating companies, or RBOCs, and cable operators, could accelerate our customer churn rate, revenue declines and profit declines in that business. We offer stand-alone long distance phone service to residential and business subscribers throughout the United States and we offer local service, bundled with long distance service, to residential subscribers in 11 states. The U.S. consumer phone services industry is characterized by numerous entities competing for a relatively static number of customers, leading to a high customer turnover rate because customers frequently change service providers in response to offers of lower rates or promotional incentives. Competition in the United States to provide phone services is intense. Our primary competitors in the long distance market include major long distance carriers and the RBOCs. The three RBOCs are (i) at&t, (ii) Qwest and (iii) Verizon. Each of the RBOCs continues to enjoy a virtual monopoly as the Incumbent Local Exchange Carrier, or ILEC, in its respective territory and the RBOCs are well funded. In a battle for market share, the RBOCs have considerable resources and we expect the RBOCs to continue to increase their share of the long distance market. Some of our competitors offer products and services available as part of their bundled service offerings, such as wireless services, high speed Internet access and television that we do not presently offer as a bundled service offering. We also compete in the consumer phone services market with cable operators. Many cable operators market their cable telephony product as a VoIP service, so they do not charge certain fees, such as the Subscriber Line Charge and the Federal Excise Tax, to subscribers, thus permitting the cable operators to provide their service 21 Table of Contents at highly competitive rates. Cable operators also offer television and high-speed Internet access along with their telephony product, providing a “triple play” service. In addition, we are at a disadvantage vis-à-vis cable operators because cable operators have their own network and are not reliant on ILEC facilities to provide service and are not affected by regulatory uncertainty facing access to and the cost of ILEC facilities. In particular, we face an additional competitive challenge because Cablevision and Time Warner—two cable operators that have been particularly aggressive in rolling out a cable telephony product—have clusters of cable franchises that overlap areas where a high percentage of our local telephony subscribers are located. In the consumer phone services market, we also compete with “stand-alone” VoIP operators such as Vonage and Skype, who provide service over a customer’s existing broadband Internet connection. While these operators have captured a relatively small portion of the overall market to date, their share is growing. This increased competition could accelerate our customer churn rate, revenue declines and profit declines in the consumer and business telephone markets, thereby reducing the duration that we can “harvest” the business. We rely on the RBOCs for access to our consumer customers’ premises, and if that access is not maintained, or if the cost to us to gain such access becomes more expensive, our ability to offer local telephone service will be constrained. We rely on utilizing the RBOCs’ networks to gain access to our customers’ premises to provide the local portion of our bundled local and long distance services. We have entered into agreements with Verizon, at&t and BellSouth (acquired by at&t in December 2006) granting us access to their respective networks, albeit at higher rates than we paid under the UNE-P system. This has impaired our overall ability to offer our bundled service at competitive rates and has led to a decline in our consumer phone services business and our overall revenues. Further, as the consumer bundled service has higher margins than does most of our other telecom offerings, the decrease in the proportions of our overall revenues from that source has negatively affected our overall profit margins. Risks Related to IDT Energy The ESCO business and our participation in the market are relatively new, and evolving factors could adversely impact the market and our performance. The ESCO business grew out of the deregulation of the energy market in the State of New York, which only began in 2000. Further, we entered the market in 2004. Accordingly, the entire market is still evolving, and we are continuing to hone our operations and strategy. We cannot predict how the market will develop or if our focus on customer acquisition and growth will prove to be the proper strategy. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, the results of operations of this business could be adversely affected. The ESCO business is highly competitive, so we may be forced to cut prices or incur additional costs. IDT Energy faces substantial competition in its market both from the traditional incumbent utilities as well as from other ESCOs. As a result, we may be forced to reduce prices, incur increased costs or lose market share. We compete on the basis of provision of services, customer service and price. Present or future competitors may have greater financial, technical or other resources which could put us at a disadvantage. Unfair business practices by competitors may adversely affect us. Competitors in the highly competitive ESCO market often engage in unfair business practices to sign up new customers. Competitors engaging in unfair business practices unfortunately create an unfavorable impression about our industry on consumers, especially in a focused and relatively new market like the one in which we operate. Such unfair practices by other companies can adversely affect our ability to grow or maintain our customer base. Demand for ESCO services and consumption by customers are significantly related to weather conditions. Typically, colder winters and hotter summers create higher demand and consumption for natural gas and electricity, respectively. Milder than expected winters and/or summers may reduce the demand for our energy services. 22 Table of Contents Our current strategy is based on current regulatory conditions and assumptions, which could change or prove to be incorrect. Regulation over the electricity and natural gas markets has been in flux at the state and Federal levels. In particular, any NYISO market changes adopted by the FERC or changes in state or Federal laws or regulations (including greenhouse gas laws) may affect the prices at which IDT Energy purchases electricity for its customers. While we seek to pass along increases in energy costs to our customers pursuant to our variable rate customer contracts, we may not always be able to do so due to competitive market forces and the risk of losing our customer base. Any changes in these factors, or any significant changes in industry development, could have an adverse effect on our revenues, profitability and growth or threaten the viability of our current growth strategy. Our ability to provide energy delivery and commodity services depends on the operations and facilities of third parties, including the NYISO, electric generators from whom we purchase electricity and natural gas suppliers from whom we purchase natural gas. The loss of use or destruction of the facilities of third parties that are used in providing our services due to extreme weather conditions, breakdowns, war, acts of terrorism or other occurrences could greatly reduce our potential earnings and cash flows. A revision to certain best practices and programs in which we participate and with which we comply could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our results and operations. Certain retail access “best practices” and programs proposed and/or required by the NYPSC have been implemented by utilities in most of the service territories in which we operate. One such practice is participation in purchase of receivables programs under which certain utilities purchase customer receivables for approximately 98% of their face value in exchange for a first priority lien in the customer receivables without recourse against the ESCO. This program is a key component of our control of bad debt risk in our ESCO business. In the event that any of these best practices or programs was to be revised or eliminated by the NYPSC or the individual utilities, we would need to adjust our current strategy regarding customer acquisition and our focus on the growth of our customer base. We would also need to adjust our current business plan to reduce our exposure to existing customers who may pose a bad debt risk. Any failure to properly respond to changing conditions could adversely affect our results of operations and profitability. In 2008, the NYPSC initiated a proceeding in order to generically examine the utility programs and practices it directed in recent years to advance the development of the competitive retail market for electricity and natural gas in New York. According to the NYPSC’s Notice in this proceeding, the NYPSC stated that it may be appropriate to review these programs and practices given the existence of numerous ESCOs providing competitive retail services and the current condition of the market. Recently, the NYPSC also initiated a proceeding to examine potential revisions to the Uniform Business Practices applicable to all ESCOs operating in New York. This proceeding plans to address ESCO marketing activities by providing standard and acceptable ESCO marketing practices and appropriate customer protections and remedies. The NYPSC has yet to issue an order in either proceeding. It is unclear when and how the NYPSC may rule on the utility programs and practices currently in place or may revise the Uniform Business Practices, and whether we may be adversely affected by any related rulings or rate proceedings of the specific utility. In addition, the NYPSC recently adopted an Energy Efficiency Portfolio Standard, or EEPS, for New York, setting a goal of gradually reducing electricity usage by 15% statewide by 2015 and requiring the utilities to file energy efficiency programs consistent with the policies and cost/benefit factors adopted by the NYPSC. We cannot predict the impact of the EEPS on the electricity usage of our customers. There could be an adverse effect on the result of operations of our ESCO business if the EEPS results in a reduction in the aggregate amount of customer load we serve. The ESCO business, including our relationship with our suppliers, is dependent on access to capital and liquidity, which may be limited under current circumstances. Our business involves entering into contracts to purchase large quantities of electricity or natural gas. Because of seasonal fluctuations, we generally are required to purchase electricity or natural gas in advance and finance that purchase until we can recover such amounts from revenues. IDT Energy has a Preferred Supplier Agreement with BP pursuant to which BP became our preferred provider of electricity and natural gas in New York State. In addition to other advantages of this agreement, we will benefit from the removal of the requirement to post security with other suppliers. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain the required 23 Table of Contents covenants or that the agreement will be renewed upon its expiration. Difficulty in obtaining adequate liquidity on commercially reasonable terms may adversely affect our business, prospects and financial conditions. Risks Related to Alternative Energy We have no current production and we may never have any. We do not have any current production of shale oil. We cannot assure you that we will produce shale oil at all or in commercially profitable quantities. Our ability to produce shale oil may depend upon our ability to develop and operate our planned projects and facilities, which may be affected by events or conditions that impact the advancement, operation, cost or results of such projects or facilities, including: • The outcome of negotiations with potential partners, governments, suppliers, customers or others; • Changes in operating conditions and costs, including costs of third party equipment or services such as drilling and processing and access to power sources; • Security concerns or acts of terrorism that threaten or disrupt the safe operation of company facilities; and • The occurrence of unforeseen technical difficulties. Operating hazards and uninsured risks with respect to the oil and gas operations may have material adverse effects on our operations. Our exploration and, if successful, development and production operations are subject to all of the risks normally incident to the exploration for and the development and production of oil and gas, including blowouts, cratering, uncontrollable flows of oil, gas or well fluids, fires, pollution and other environmental and operating risks. These hazards could result in substantial losses due to injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment, pollution and other environmental damage and suspension of operations. While as a matter of practice we take out insurance against some or all of these risks, such insurance may not cover the particular hazard and may not be sufficient to cover all losses. The occurrence of a significant event adversely affecting any of our operations could have a material adverse effect on us, could materially affect our continued operation and could expose us to material liability. AMSO, LLC’s and IEI’s dependence on the limited contractors, equipment and professional services available could result in increased costs and possibly material delays in their respective work schedules. Due to the lack of available technical resources with in-situ extraction experience, the costs for our operations may be more expensive than planned or there could be delays in our operating plans. We are also more likely to incur delays in our drilling schedule and be subject to a greater risk of failure in meeting our required work schedule. Similarly, some of the professional personnel we need to undertake our planned operations are not available in Israel or available on short notice for work in Israel, and, therefore, we may need to use overseas contractors for various projects. Any or all of the factors specified above may result in increased costs and delays in the work schedule. AMSO, LLC and IEI will require substantial funds and will need to raise additional capital in the future. We will need substantial funds to fully execute our anticipated operations. Failure to secure adequate funding could adversely affect our ability to advance our strategic plans as currently contemplated and require us to delay, scale back, or shut down our operations. Furthermore, the current conditions in the global capital markets due to the credit crisis which began in the second half of 2008 and the current volatility in the financial markets may make it difficult for us to obtain such financing. AMSO, LLC’s and IEI’s success depends on the continuing efforts of key personnel and our efforts may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract and retain qualified technical personnel particularly those with expertise in in-situ shale oil production. There is substantial competition for qualified technical personnel, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain our qualified technical personnel. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more of these people, and the ability to find suitable replacements within a reasonable period of time thereafter, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. 24 Table of Contents There are uncertainties associated with AMSO, LLC’s RD&D lease and IEI’s license. AMSO, LLC was granted an RD&D Lease by the BLM for 10 years with up to a 5-year extension upon demonstration that a process leading up to the production of commercial quantities of shale oil is diligently pursued. The terms of the RD&D Lease do not guarantee that the BLM will grant a commercial lease. Further, there is significant environmental opposition to the commercial production of shale oil. There are numerous conditions and requirements that AMSO, LLC will have to meet to convert its RD&D Lease into a commercial lease, and there can be no assurance that all of the conditions and requirements will be met before the expiration of the RD&D Lease. IEI holds an exclusive Shale Oil Exploration and Production License that expires in July 2011. While the license may be extended for an additional four years and IEI may also apply for a new license, there is no guarantee the license will be extended or that a new license would be granted. In addition, the license is subject to certain conditions and milestones and the failure to reach those milestones may result in the termination, revocation, suspension or limitation of the license. In-situ technology for the extraction of shale oil is in its early stages of development, has not been deployed commercially and AMSO, LLC and IEI may not be able to develop environmentally acceptable and economically viable technology in connection therewith. Our strategy is predicated on the production and extraction of shale oil using unconventional methodologies, defined as any method other than the traditional oil well. Unconventional oil production is typically more costly and has a more significant environmental impact than traditional production. Our unconventional production methods are less established than traditional methods and therefore carry a higher degree of technology risk. The increased costs increase the risks that we will not be profitable given commodity price fluctuations, assuming we enter into commercial production. AMSO, LLC and IEI are subject to regulatory, legal and political risks that may limit their operations. Our operations and potential earnings may be affected from time to time in varying degree by regulatory, legal and political factors including: • Laws and regulations related to environmental or energy security matters, including those addressing alternative energy sources and the risks of global climate change. Such laws and regulations continue to increase in both number and complexity and affect our operations with respect to, among other things: Ÿ The discharge of pollutants into the environment; Ÿ The handling, use, storage, transportation, disposal and cleanup of hazardous materials and hazardous and nonhazardous wastes; and Ÿ The dismantlement, abandonment and restoration of our properties and facilities at the end of their useful lives; • Restrictions on exploration and production; • Loss of petroleum rights including key leases, licenses or permits; • Tax or royalty increases, including retroactive claims; • Intellectual property challenges that would limit our ability to use in-situ extraction technology; • Political instability in areas where we operate; and • War or other international conflicts in Israel. Regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could increase AMSO, LLC and IEI’s operational costs. AMSO, LLC’s and IEI’s potential future production and processing of oil shale will result in emission of greenhouse gases. International agreements and national or regional legislation and regulatory measures to limit greenhouse emissions are currently in various phases of discussion or implementation. The Kyoto Protocol and other actual or pending federal, state and local regulations, envision a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions through market-based trading schemes. As a result of these and other environmental regulations, we can expect to incur additional capital, compliance, operating, maintenance and remediation costs. To the extent these costs are not ultimately reflected in the price of the products we sell, our operating results will be adversely affected. 25 Table of Contents Our industry is subject to the same general inherent industry and economic risks of the oil and gas business. The oil business is fundamentally a commodity business. This means that potential future commercial operations and earnings may be significantly affected by changes in oil and gas prices and by changes in margins on gasoline and other refined products. We may be exposed to infringement or misappropriation claims by third parties, which, if determined adversely to us, could cause us to lose significant rights and pay significant damage awards. Our success also depends largely on our ability to use and develop our technology and know-how without infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. The validity and scope of claims relating to our technology involve complex scientific, legal and factual questions and analysis. It is therefore difficult to accurately predict whether or not a third party will assert that we are infringing on its intellectual property or whether it would prevail. Although we are not currently aware of any infringement or of any parties pursuing or intending to pursue infringement claims against us, we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to such claims in the future. Also, in many jurisdictions, patent applications remain confidential and are not published for about 5 to 6 months after filing. Thus, we may be unaware of other persons’ pending patent applications that relate to our processes. While at present we are unaware of competing patent applications, competing applications could potentially surface. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, patent opposition proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings can be both costly and time consuming and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our technical and management personnel. An adverse determination in any such litigation or proceedings to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liability to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties, to pay ongoing royalties, to redesign our products, or subject us to injunctions prohibiting the manufacture and sale of our products or the use of our technologies. Risks Related to Our Financial Performance We have incurred significant losses since our inception, and continued losses in the future could cause the trading price of our stock to decline further or have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, our ability to pay our debts as they become due and cash flows. We have incurred significant losses since inception. During fiscal 2009, we had a consolidated net loss of $(155.4) million. If we are not able to achieve overall profitability or maintain any profitability that we do achieve, the trading price of our stock could continue to decline and our financial condition could worsen as we could, among other things, continue to deplete our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. We incurred a loss from continuing operations in each of the five years in the period ended July 31, 2009. We incurred a net loss in fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008, fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, and we would have incurred a net loss in fiscal 2007 except for a gain on the sale of a discontinued operation. We also had negative cash flow from operating activities in each of the three years in the period ended July 31, 2009. We had an accumulated deficit at July 31, 2009 of $251.9 million. Historically, we satisfied our cash requirements primarily through a combination of our existing cash and cash equivalents, proceeds from the sale of businesses, proceeds from the sales and maturities of marketable securities and investments, arbitration awards and litigation settlements, and borrowings from third parties. We currently expect our operations in the next twelve months and the balance of cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and pooled investment vehicles including hedge funds that we held as of July 31, 2009 will be sufficient to meet our currently anticipated working capital and capital expenditure requirements, and to fund any potential operating cash flow deficits within any of our segments for at least the next twelve months. The foregoing is based on a number of assumptions, including that we will collect our receivables, effectively manage our working capital requirements, prevail in legal actions and other claims initiated against us, and maintain our revenue levels and liquidity. Predicting these matters is particularly difficult in the current worldwide economic situation and overall decline in consumer demand. Failure to generate sufficient revenue and operating income could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The recoverability of assets is highly dependent on the ability of management to execute our business plan. 26 Table of Contents We hold significant cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and investments that are subject to various market risks. As of July 31, 2009, we had cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and investments of $196.7 million. In addition, as of July 31, 2009, our assets of discontinued operations included cash and cash equivalents of $13.1 million, of which we will retain approximately $10 million held by IDT Financial Services pursuant to regulatory requirements upon completion of the proposed sale, in addition to the $3 million that we expect to receive from the buyer. We incurred losses in fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008 upon the disposal of unprofitable investments. In addition, we hold auction rate securities with a cost of $14.3 million that are not currently liquid and have declined in value. As of July 31, 2009, the estimated fair value of our auction rate securities was $0.6 million. Furthermore, we hold a portion of our total asset portfolio in holdings of pooled investment vehicles including hedge funds; as of July 31, 2009, the carrying value of our investments in such pooled investment vehicles was approximately $12.4 million, of which $0.6 million is included in “Investments-short term” and $11.8 million is included in “Investments-long-term” in our consolidated balance sheet. These pooled investment vehicles carry a degree of risk, as there can be no assurance that we can redeem these investments at any time and that the managers of the hedge funds in which we have invested will be able to accurately predict the course of price movements of securities and other instruments and, in general, the securities markets have in recent years been characterized by great volatility and unpredictability. As a result of these different market risks, our holdings of cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and investments could be materially and adversely affected. Intellectual Property, Tax, Regulatory and Litigation Risks We may be adversely affected if we fail to protect our proprietary technology. We depend on proprietary technology and other intellectual property rights in conducting our various business operations. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secret protection and contractual rights to establish and protect our proprietary rights. Failure of our patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secret protection, non-disclosure agreements and other measures to provide protection of our technology and our intellectual property rights could enable our competitors to more effectively compete with us and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may be required to litigate in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, and there can be no assurances that we will be successful in any such litigation. To date, we have not obtained a recovery from litigation claiming infringement of certain patents owned by our Net2Phone subsidiary relating to VoIP technology. We may be subject to claims of infringement of intellectual property rights of others. From time to time we may be subject to claims and legal proceedings from third parties regarding alleged infringement by us of trademarks, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property rights. Such suits can be expensive and time consuming and could distract us and our management from focusing on our businesses. Further, loss of such suits could result in financial burdens and the requirement to modify our modes of operation, which could materially adversely affect our business. We are subject to tax and regulatory audits which could result in the imposition of liabilities that may or may not have been reserved. We are subject to audit by taxing and regulatory authorities with respect to certain of our income and operations. These audits can cover periods for several years prior to the date the audit is undertaken and could result in the imposition of liabilities, interest and penalties if our positions are not accepted by the auditing entity. Our financial statements contain reserves for certain of such liabilities, but we do not reserve for liabilities that we do not reasonably expect to be imposed. On February 10, 2006, Universal Service Administrative Company, or USAC, notified us that it issued an Audit Report from its Internal Audit Division, or IAD. In calendar year 2005, the IAD audited our FCC Form 499-A filings for calendar years 2000 through 2004 related to the payments to the Universal Service Fund, and concluded that we incorrectly reported certain revenues on Forms 499-A. USAC directed us to refile our Forms 27 Table of Contents 499-A for calendar years 2002 through 2004 in a manner consistent with the IAD’s findings. We did not refile the Forms 499-A, as we believed the IAD is mistaken in certain conclusions regarding the treatment of our revenues. USAC, however, filed the forms on our behalf, which we believe to be impermissible under the FCC’s rules and regulations. On June 5, 2007, we were notified by USAC that it intended to audit our FCC Form 499-A filings for calendar years 2005 and 2006. This audit took place over the subsequent months and on April 30, 2008 USAC issued an Audit Report from its IAD finding, as it found in its prior Audit Report, that we incorrectly reported certain revenues on Forms 499-A. USAC directed us to refile our Forms 499-A for calendar year 2005 in a manner consistent with the IAD’s findings. We did not refile the Forms 499-A, as we believed the IAD is mistaken in certain conclusions regarding the treatment of our revenues. Whereas USAC filed certain Forms 499-A on our behalf over our objection in the first audit, USAC has not yet filed any Forms 499-A on our behalf as a result of the second audit. However, we think it is likely they will do so in the future. It remains IDT’s position that it would be impermissible under the FCC’s rules and regulations for USAC to file on IDT’s behalf. We filed with the FCC a “Request for Review” of the Audit Report, which remains pending as of the date we are filing this Annual Report. USAC’s revisions in both audits to our filing methodology resulted in additional regulatory payments for the years covered by the audit. Because we believe in the accuracy of our filing methodology and our Request remains pending, we have not revised our methodology for post-audit Form 499-A filings. We have accrued for all regulatory fees we believe may be incurred under IAD’s methodology from 2002 through the present, in the event our Request is denied and/or our methodology is not upheld on appeal, and we have made payments on amounts that have been invoiced to us by USAC and/or other agencies. We anticipate receiving additional invoices in the near future for our more recent audit. If we receive such invoices, we will remit payment for those invoices while our Requests for Review remain pending. The accrual amount for the years covered by the audit and subsequent years, as of July 31, 2009, was $19.8 million. Until a final decision has been reached in our disputes, we will continue to accrue in accordance with IAD’s methodology. If we do not properly calculate, or have not properly calculated, the amount payable by us to the Universal Service Fund, we may be subject to interest and penalties. The Internal Revenue Service, in the ordinary course of business, may audit some or all of our tax filings. In fiscal 2006, the IRS commenced an audit of our U.S. federal tax returns for fiscal years 2001, 2002, 2003 and 2004. As a result of this audit, we owed approximately $75 million in taxes for fiscal 2001 and approximately $1 million for adjustments carried forward to fiscal 2005 and $39.5 million in interest. In connection therewith, we paid $10.0 million of the amount owed in July 2008 and paid the remaining amount owed to the IRS, an aggregate of $108.4 million, in monthly installments from October 2008 through June 2009. In December 2008, the IRS commenced an audit of our federal tax returns for fiscal years 2005, 2006 and 2007. In May 2009, the IRS assessed a liability of $1.2 million for fiscal year 2005 which represents the approximately $1 million previously agreed to plus interest. The IRS granted our request for abatement of a portion of the interest and penalties that were incurred while we were making installment payments, and the IRS applied these payments to the amount owed for fiscal 2005. The fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2007 audits are ongoing. We are subject to value added tax, or VAT, audits from time-to-time in various jurisdictions. In the conduct of such audits, we may be required to disclose information of a sensitive nature and, in general, to modify the way we have conducted business with our distributors until the present, which may affect our business in an adverse manner. On September 4, 2008, a Swedish court granted an application made by the Swedish Tax Agency to seize SEK 100 million ($13.4 million) of assets owned by one of our subsidiaries, Inter Direct Tel Ltd., as security for payment of VAT. Inter Direct Tel appealed the seizure order and on October 6, 2008, the appellate court reversed the lower court’s seizure order. On December 17, 2008, the Swedish Tax Agency sent Inter Direct Tel an Audit Memo describing its reasoning for a VAT assessment of approximately SEK 112 million ($15.1 million) and SEK 22 million ($3.0 million) in penalties. On March 27, 2009, Inter Direct Tel responded to the comments in the Audit Memo. On June 5, 2009, Inter Direct Tel received a re-assessment from the Swedish Tax Agency in the same amounts assessed in the Audit Memo with the payment due on July 13, 2009. Inter Direct Tel received a suspension of the payment obligation until the matter is addressed by the appro- 28 Table of Contents priate court. On September 30, 2009, Inter Direct Tel filed an appeal of the re-assessment. We cannot be certain of the ultimate outcome of this matter at this time. We are also subject to audits in various jurisdictions for various other taxes, including sales and use tax, gross receipts tax, payroll tax and property tax. Two of the more significant audits relate to sales and use tax in New Jersey and payroll tax in Newark, New Jersey, for which we have accrued an aggregate of $5.6 million as of July 31, 2009. We believe that we have adequately provided for all of the obligations for these taxes, however amounts asserted by taxing authorities could be greater than the accrued amounts. Accordingly, additional provisions may be recorded in the future as revised estimates are made or underlying matters are settled or resolved. Imposition of assessments as a result of tax and regulatory audits could have an adverse affect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Federal and state regulations may be passed that could harm Net2Phone’s business. Net2Phone’s ability to provide VoIP communications services at attractive rates arises in large part from the fact that VoIP services are not currently subject to the same level of regulation as traditional, switch-based telephony. As such, VoIP providers can currently avoid paying some of the charges that traditional telephone companies must pay. Local exchange carriers are lobbying the FCC and the states to regulate VoIP on the same basis as traditional telephone services. Congress, the FCC and several states are examining this issue. If these regulators decide to increase VoIP regulations, they may impose surcharges, taxes or additional regulations upon providers of Internet telephony. These surcharges could include access charges payable to local exchange carriers to carry and terminate traffic or other charges and fees. The imposition of any such additional fees, charges, taxes and regulations on IP communications services could materially increase our costs and may limit or eliminate our competitive pricing advantages. In addition, we expect that regulations requiring compliance with federal Truth in Billing requirements could place a significant financial burden on us depending on the technical changes required to accommodate the requirements. Also, pending FCC and/or judicial actions regarding interconnected VoIP may result in the application of new or additional regulatory obligations, such as contributing to state universal service funds, thereby requiring us to pay additional charges and taxes. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to offer services outside the United States is subject to the local regulatory environment, which may be unfavorable, complicated and often uncertain. Regulatory treatment outside the United States varies from country to country. We distribute our products and services through resellers that may be subject to telecommunications regulations in their home countries. The failure of these resellers to comply with these laws and regulations could reduce our revenue and profitability, or expose us to audits and other regulatory proceedings. Regulatory developments such as these could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In many countries in which we operate or our services are sold, the status of the laws that may relate to our services is unclear. We cannot be certain that our customers, resellers, or other affiliates are currently in compliance with regulatory or other legal requirements in their respective countries, that they or we will be able to comply with existing or future requirements, and/or that they or we will continue in compliance with any requirements. Our failure or the failure of those with whom we transact business to comply with these requirements could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we expect additional regulation of our industry in some or all of these areas, and we expect continuing changes in the regulatory environment as new and proposed regulations are reviewed, revised and amended, we cannot predict with certainty what impact new laws in these areas will have on us, if any. For a complete discussion of what we believe are the most material regulations impacting our business, see “Business—Regulation” included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 29 Table of Contents We are subject to legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Various legal proceedings that have arisen or may arise in the ordinary course of business have not been finally adjudicated, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. See, for example, the T-Mobile USA, Inc. matter as set forth in detail in Item 3 below. Risks Related to Our Capital Structure Holders of our Class B common stock have significantly less voting power than holders of our Class A common stock and our common stock. Holders of our Class B common stock are entitled to one-tenth of a vote per share on all matters on which our stockholders are entitled to vote, while holders of our Class A common stock are entitled to three votes per share and holders of our common stock are entitled to one vote per share. As a result, the ability of holders of our Class B common stock to influence our management is limited. We are controlled by our principal stockholder, which limits the ability of other stockholders to affect our management. Howard S. Jonas, our Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and founder, has voting power over 4,764,039 shares of our common stock (which includes 3,272,326 shares of our Class A common stock, which are convertible into shares of our common stock on a 1-for-1 basis) and 1,827,650 shares of our Class B common stock, representing approximately 75.7% of the combined voting power of our outstanding capital stock, as of October 9, 2009. Mr. Jonas is able to control matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of all of the directors and the approval of significant corporate matters, including any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. As a result, the ability of any of our other stockholders to influence our management is limited. Risks Related to Our Publicly Traded Equity The price of our common and Class B common stock has decreased significantly, and may continue to decrease and be subject to volatility. The price of our common stock and our Class B common stock have depreciated significantly during the past two fiscal years, and have been subject to substantial volatility. As of the close of business on October 26, 2009, the price of our common stock and Class B common stock were $3.48 and $3.83, respectively. See Part II, Item 5 (Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities) of this annual report for more information on the history of the closing prices of our common stock and our Class B common stock. The prices of our common stock and our Class B common stock may continue to decrease and may continue to be subject to substantial volatility. Our common stock is deemed to be a “Penny Stock,” which may make it more difficult for investors to sell their shares due to suitability requirements. The SEC has adopted regulations that define a “penny stock,” generally, to be an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to specific exemptions. This designation requires any broker or dealer selling our securities to disclose certain information concerning the transaction, obtain a written agreement from the purchaser and determine that the purchaser is reasonably suitable to purchase the securities. These rules may restrict the ability of brokers or dealers to sell our common stock and may affect the ability of shareholders to sell their shares. The New York Stock Exchange has notified us that we are not in compliance with its continued listing criteria. If we are delisted by the NYSE, the price and liquidity of our common stock and Class B common stock will be negatively affected. On September 30, 2008 and October 8, 2008, we received notices from the NYSE that we were no longer in compliance with the NYSE’s $100 million market capitalization threshold and the $1.00 average closing price over a consecutive 30-day trading period requirement, respectively, required for continued listing. We submitted a plan to the NYSE to regain compliance with the market capitalization standard, and that plan was accepted. The NYSE monitors compliance with the plan and may commence delisting procedures if we fail to meet the milestones set forth in our plan. We have until March 2010 to regain compliance with the $100 million market capitalization standard. In addition, according to the rules of the NYSE, the NYSE will promptly initiate suspension and delisting procedures with respect to a listed company that is determined to 30 Table of Contents have average global market capitalization over a consecutive 30 trading-day period of less than $25 million. As of October 26, 2009, we had a 30-day average market capitalization of $71.3 million. We are currently in compliance with this $25 million threshold, but not the $100 million threshold. On April 8, 2009, the NYSE notified us that the stock price for each of our listed equity securities was above the NYSE’s minimum requirement of a $1.00 average share price over the preceding 30 trading days and a $1.00 share price on the close of the last trading day of the six-month cure period (April 8, 2009), thus restoring our compliance with the minimum share price requirement for continued listing on the NYSE. We cannot assure you that the NYSE will maintain our listing in the future. In the event that our common stock and Class B common stock are delisted by the NYSE, or if it becomes apparent to us that we will be unable to meet the NYSE’s continued listing criteria in the foreseeable future, we may seek to have our stock listed or quoted on another national securities exchange or quotation system. However, we cannot assure you that, if our common stock and Class B common stock are listed or quoted on such other exchange or system, the market for our common stock and Class B common stock will be as liquid as it has been on the NYSE. As a result, if we are delisted by the NYSE or transfer our listing to another exchange or quotation system, the market price for our common stock and Class B common stock may become more volatile than it has been historically. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 