RISK FACTORS Our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially adversely affected by any of the following risks as well as the other risks highlighted elsewhere in this document, particularly the discussions about regulation, competition and intellectual property. The trading price of our Class B common stock and common stock could decline due to any of these risks. RISKS RELATED TO OUR TELECOMMUNICATIONS BUSINESSES Each of our telecommunications business lines is highly sensitive to declining prices, which may adversely affect our revenues and margins. The worldwide telecommunications industry has been characterized in recent years by intense price competition, which has resulted in a significant decline in both our average per-minute price realizations and our average per-minute termination costs. Many of our competitors in all of the retail telecommunications market segments in which we operate are aggressively pricing their services. This has led to continued erosion in pricing power, both in our retail and wholesale markets, and we have generally had to pass along any savings we achieve on our per minute costs to our customers, in the form of lower prices. Therefore, our telecommunications revenues have, in recent periods, increased at a much slower rate than our increases in minutes of use, and the profits, when measured on a per-minute basis, in certain of our telecommunications 30 Table of Contents lines of business have been adversely affected. If this trend continues or intensifies, it could have a material adverse effect on the revenues and margins generated by our telecommunications business lines. Because our prepaid calling cards generate the bulk of our revenue, our growth is substantially dependent upon continuing growth in that area, and we face significant competition. During fiscal 2005, prepaid calling cards accounted for 59.5% of IDT Telecom’s and 52.0% of our total consolidated revenues. We compete in the prepaid calling card market with many of the established facilities-based carriers, such as AT&T, MCI and Sprint Nextel. These companies are substantially larger and have greater technical, engineering, personnel and marketing resources, longer operating histories, greater name recognition and larger customer bases than we do. The resources of these competitors could significantly impact our ability to compete successfully. If we are not able to increase our sales of prepaid calling cards, our growth rates could suffer. Further, if our competitors determine to utilize their greater resources to more aggressively market their products and services, this significant portion of our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. We may not be able to obtain sufficient or cost-effective termination capacity to particular destinations to keep up with our growth. Most of our telecommunications traffic is terminated through third-party providers. In order to keep pace with our growth of minutes of use and geographic expansion, we may need to obtain additional termination capacity or destinations. We may not be able to obtain sufficient termination capacity from high-quality carriers to particular destinations or may have to pay significant amounts to obtain such capacity. This could result in our not being able to sustain growth in minutes of use or in higher costs per minute to particular destinations, which could adversely affect our revenues and margins. The termination of our carrier agreements with foreign partners or our inability to enter into carrier agreements in the future could materially and adversely affect our ability to compete in foreign countries, which could reduce our revenues and profits. We rely upon our carrier agreements with foreign partners in order to provide our telecommunication services to our customers. These carrier agreements are for finite terms and, therefore, there can be no guarantee that these agreements will be renewed. Our ability to compete in foreign countries would be adversely affected if our carrier agreements with foreign partners were terminated or we were unable to enter into carrier agreements in the future to provide our telecommunications services to our customers, which could result in a reduction of our revenues and profits. Our customers, particularly our wholesale carrier customers, could experience financial difficulties which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability if we experience difficulties in collecting our receivables. As a wholesale provider of international long distance services, we depend upon traffic from other long distance providers, and the collection of receivables from these customers. Since 2002, several of these customers have declared bankruptcy or otherwise faced financial difficulties. If continued weakness in the telecommunications industry reduces our ability to collect our accounts receivable from our major customers, particularly our wholesale carrier customers, our revenues may be substantially reduced. While our most significant customers vary from quarter to quarter, our five largest wholesale carrier customers accounted for 5.6% of our total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2005 compared with 6.5% in fiscal 2004. This concentration of revenues increases our exposure to non-payment by customers, and we may experience significant write-offs related to the provision of wholesale carrier services if any of our large customers fail to pay their outstanding balances, which could adversely affect our revenues and profits. Our revenues and our growth will suffer if our distributors and sales representatives, particularly Union Telecard Alliance, LLC, fail to effectively market and distribute our prepaid calling card products and other services. We rely on our distributors and representatives for marketing and distribution of our prepaid calling card products and other services. We hold a 51% ownership interest in Union Telecard Alliance, LLC, or UTA, which utilizes a network of more than 1,000 sub-distributors (ranging from large companies to sole proprietors) that sell to over 250,000 retail outlets throughout the United States to distribute our prepaid calling cards. In fiscal 2005, we sold approximately 75.5% of our prepaid calling cards through UTA’s network. In foreign countries, we are dependent upon our distributors and independent sales representatives, many of which also sell services or products of other companies. As a result, we cannot control whether these foreign distributors and sales representatives will devote sufficient efforts to selling our services. In addition, we may not succeed in finding capable retailers and sales representatives in new markets which we may enter. If our 31 Table of Contents distributors or sales representatives fail to effectively market or distribute our prepaid calling card products and other services, our ability to generate revenues and grow our customer base could be substantially impaired. Increased competition in the consumer and business telephone market, particularly from the regional bell operating companies, or RBOCs, and cable operators, could limit or reverse our growth in that area. We offer long distance phone service to residential and business subscribers throughout the United States and we offer local service, bundled with long distance service, to residential subscribers in 13 states. The U.S. consumer phone service industry is characterized by numerous entities competing for a relatively static number of customers, leading to a high customer turnover rate because customers frequently change service providers in response to offers of lower rates or promotional incentives. Competition in the United States to provide phone services is intense. Our primary competitors include the Regional Bell Operating Companies, or RBOCs, as well as the major long distance carriers such as AT&T, MCI and Sprint Nextel. The four RBOCs are (i) BellSouth, (ii) SBC Communications, (iii) Qwest and (iv) Verizon. Each of the RBOCs continues to enjoy a virtual monopoly as the Incumbent Local Exchange Carrier, or ILEC, in its respective territory and the RBOCs are well funded. In a battle for market share, the RBOCs have considerable resources. Some of our competitors offer products and services available as part of their bundled service offerings, such as wireless services and high speed Internet access, that we do not presently offer. We also compete in the consumer phone service market with cable operators. Cable operators present a significant and ever-increasing challenge to us, because (i) many cable operators market their cable telephony product as a VoIP service, so they do not charge certain fees, such as the Subscriber Line Charge and the Federal Excise Tax, to subscribers, thus permitting the cable operators to provide their service at highly competitive rates, and (ii) cable operators offer television and high-speed Internet access along with their telephony product, providing a “one stop shopping” service. In addition, we are at a disadvantage vis-à-vis cable operators because cable operators have their own network and are not reliant on ILEC facilities to provide service and are not affected by regulatory uncertainty facing access to and the cost of ILEC facilities. We in particular face an additional competitive challenge because Cablevision and Time Warner—two cable operators that have been particularly aggressive in rolling out a cable telephony product—have clusters of cable franchises that overlap areas where a high percentage of our local telephony subscribers are located. We rely on the RBOCs for access to our consumer customers’ homes, and if that access is not maintained our ability to offer that service will be constrained. We rely on utilizing the RBOCs’ networks to gain access to our customers’ premises to provide the local portion of our bundled local and long distance services. That access was previously assured by the FCC’s UNE-P rules which mandated that the RBOCs make their networks available to alternate service providers, such as us, at set rates. In February 2005, the FCC effectively repealed the UNE-P rules, which has constrained our ability to compete. We have entered into an agreement with Verizon granting us access to their network, albeit at higher rates than we paid under the UNE-P system. We have not yet entered into agreements with any other RBOCs to make that access available in their areas of operation and we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. If we are not able to enter into agreements with the other RBOCs, we would not be able to offer local services outside of the Verizon territory after March 2006. This would impair our overall ability to offer our bundled service which could negatively affect the growth rate of our consumer phone services business and our overall revenues. Further, as the consumer bundled service has higher margins than do most of our other telecom offerings, a decrease in the proportions of our overall revenues from that source could negatively affect our overall profit margins. RISKS RELATED TO IDT ENTERTAINMENT We rely on a few major customers in realizing our home entertainment distribution revenues and a reduction in our business with these customers could have an adverse effect on us. A small number of retailers account for a significant percentage of our home entertainment distribution revenues. We do not have long-term agreements with any of these customers. In fiscal 2005, approximately 50% of home entertainment distribution revenues in the United States were to three customers. We cannot assure you that we will continue to maintain favorable relationships with these customers or that they will not be adversely affected by economic conditions. If any of these customers reduces or cancels its relationship with us, it could have a material adverse effect on IDT Entertainment’s revenues and profits. 32 Table of Contents A significant portion of our home entertainment distribution revenues comes from a small number of titles. A loss of our rights to these titles, or our failure to replace them when our rights expire, could significantly harm our home entertainment distribution business. We depend on a limited number of titles for a significant portion of the revenues generated by our home entertainment distribution activities. In addition, many of the titles in our library are not presently distributed and generate substantially no revenue. If we were to lose access to our significant titles, or were unable to license new products, it could have a material adverse effect on our home entertainment distribution business’ revenues and profits. We could experience higher than expected returns of the home entertainment products that we sell, which would hurt our revenues and profitability. Our home entertainment distribution business generally distributes its products to retailers subject to the right of those retailers to return unsold products to us for a refund of their purchase price. We take reserves on our financial statements for the anticipated returns, which are based on experience, industry standards and estimates made by management. We could experience higher than expected levels of returns due to over-purchasing by our retailer customers, changes in customer taste or other factors. If those estimates prove to be incorrect, or if we experience higher than expected levels of returns for any reason whatsoever, it would negatively impact our revenues and profitability. Further, there is no assurance that we would be able to re-sell the returned inventory or recoup the costs in producing the products. The success of IDT Entertainment may depend on audience acceptance of our CG animated feature films, which is extremely difficult to predict and therefore inherently risky. We are spending an increasing amount of time and resources on the development of proprietary CG animated feature films and other CG animated content. We cannot predict the economic success of any of our proprietary products, because the revenue derived from the distribution of entertainment products depends primarily upon its acceptance by the public, which cannot be accurately predicted. If our films do not achieve audience acceptance, it could result in costs not being recouped or anticipated profits not being realized. If our feature films or other entertainment products are not as successful as we forecast, or if they do not recoup our investments in those properties, the revenues and profits of IDT Entertainment could be adversely affected. Animated films are expensive to produce and the uncertainties inherent in their production could result in the expenditure of significant amounts on films that are canceled or significantly delayed, which would adversely affect our revenues and financial condition. The production, completion and distribution of animated feature films are subject to a number of uncert -ainties, including delays and increased expenditures due to creative problems, technical difficulties, talent availability, availability of release dates, accidents, natural disasters or other events beyond our control. Because of these uncertainties, the projected costs of an animated feature film at the time it is set for production may increase, the theatrical release date may be substantially delayed or the film may be abandoned due to the exigencies of production. Delays in production may also result in a film not being ready for its intended theatrical release date, resulting in the postponement or even cancellation of a theatrical release, which could result in significantly lower or no gross receipts for that film. In extreme cases, a film in production may be abandoned or significantly modified (including as a result of creative changes) after substantial amounts have been spent, causing the write-off of expenses incurred with respect to the film. Piracy, including digital and Internet piracy, may decrease revenue received from the exploitation of our entertainment products. Intellectual property piracy is extensive in many parts of the world and is made easier by technological advances and the conversion of motion pictures into digital formats. The proliferation of unauthorized copies and piracy of our entertainment products could have an adverse affect on our business because these products reduce the revenue we receive from our production and distribution of legitimate products. RISKS RELATED TO NET2PHONE Net2Phone has never been profitable. Net2Phone has never generated profits from operations, except for fiscal 2003, which would not have been profitable if not for a litigation settlement. Net2Phone’s aggregate revenues from inception to July 31, 2005 were approximately $661.8 million, and its accumulated deficit was approximately $815.1 million as of that date. Net2Phone will need to generate significant additional revenue to achieve profitability. Net2Phone may 33 Table of Contents not be able to do so. Even if it does achieve profitability, we cannot assure you that Net2Phone will be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Net2Phone intends to pursue new streams of revenue, including from its cable telephony business, which it has not attempted to generate before and which may not be profitable. In addition to its current revenue, Net2Phone is pursuing new revenue opportunities, particularly from its cable telephony business. In fiscal 2005, Net2Phone devoted, and will continue to devote, significant capital and resources to the development of its cable telephony business, and we cannot ensure when or if this investment will be profitable. Net2Phone’s business models for its cable telephony business have not been tested on a broad basis. Net2Phone is just beginning to test its cable telephony service on a large scale and with multiple operators in multiple jurisdictions. We cannot be sure that Net2Phone’s service offering will be scalable to the extent necessary to serve a large customer base or that its services will deliver sufficient reliability or quality on a large scale basis, or at all. We cannot assure you that Net2Phone will obtain additional customers for its cable telephony business or that this business will be profitable. Pricing pressures and increasing use of VoIP technology may lessen Net2Phone’s competitive pricing advantage. Net2Phone’s success is based partly on its ability to provide discounted voice services by taking advantage of cost savings achieved by carrying voice traffic employing VoIP packet switched technologies, as compared to carrying calls over traditional circuit switched networks. In recent years, the price of telephone service has generally fallen. The price of telephone service may continue to fall for various reasons, including the adoption of VoIP technology by other communications carriers. Many carriers have adopted pricing plans such that the rates that they charge are not always substantially higher than the rates that Net2Phone charges for similar service. In addition, other providers of long distance services are offering unlimited or nearly unlimited use of some of their services for a competitive monthly rate. The overall effect of these developments may be to reduce the price of local and long distance calls to a point where VoIP providers such as Net2Phone no longer have a price advantage. Net2Phone would then have to rely on factors other than price to differentiate its product and service offerings, which it may not be able to do. If it is not able to do so, Net2Phone’s business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Net2Phone has and plans to increasingly depend on its international operations, which subject it to unpredictable regulatory, economic and political situations. Net2Phone’s customers based outside of the United States currently generate a majority of its revenue. A significant component of Net2Phone’s strategy is to continue to expand internationally. Net2Phone may not be successful in expanding into additional international markets. In addition to the uncertainty regarding Net2Phone’s ability to generate revenue from foreign operations and expand its international presence, there are certain risks inherent in doing business on an international basis, including: • changing regulatory requirements, which vary widely from country to country; • action by foreign governments or foreign telecommunications companies to limit access to Net2Phone’s services; • increased bad debt and subscription fraud; • legal uncertainty regarding liability, tariffs and other trade barriers; • economic and political instability; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. For example, several of Net2Phone’s largest customers are based in the Middle East, Asia and Latin America and other areas of the world where there is the potential for significant political and economic instability. Net2Phone has experienced power supply problems, difficulty maintaining local customer support and difficulties dealing with local companies and governments in some of these regions. Moreover, developments in the Middle East, such as the continuation of hostilities involving the United States or others, could result in the disruption of Net2Phone’s business in the regions affected by the hostilities. These difficulties could materially and adversely affect Net2Phone’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 34 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND GROWTH STRATEGY We have incurred significant losses since our inception, which could cause the trading price of our stock to decline. We have incurred significant losses since inception. During fiscal 2005, we had a consolidated net loss of $43.8 million. If we are not able to achieve overall profitability or maintain any profitability that we do achieve, the trading price of our stock could be negatively affected. Our growth strategy depends, in part, on our acquiring complementary businesses and assets and expanding our existing operations, which we may be unable to do. Our growth strategy is based, in part, on our ability to acquire businesses and assets that are complimentary to our existing telecom and entertainment operations. We may also seek to acquire other businesses. The success of this acquisition strategy will depend, in part, on our ability to accomplish the following: • identify suitable businesses or assets to buy; • complete the purchase of those businesses on terms acceptable to us; • complete the acquisition in the time frame we expect; • improve the results of operations of the businesses that we buy and successfully integrate their operations into our own; and • avoid or overcome any concerns expressed by regulators, including antitrust concerns. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in pursuing any or all of these steps. Our failure to implement our acquisition strategy could have an adverse effect on other aspects of our business strategy and our business in general. We may not be able to find appropriate acquisition candidates, acquire those candidates that we find or integrate acquired businesses effectively or profitably. Our acquisition program and strategy may lead us to contemplate acquisitions of companies in bankruptcy, which entail additional risks and uncertainties. Such risks and uncertainties include, without limitation, that, before assets may be acquired, customers may leave in search of more stable providers and vendors may terminate key relationships. Also, assets are generally acquired on an “as is” basis, with no recourse to the seller if the assets are not as valuable as may be represented. Finally, while bankrupt companies may be acquired for comparatively little money, the cost of continuing the operations may significantly exceed expectations. We have in the past used, and may continue to use, our capital stock as payment for all or a portion of the purchase price for acquisitions. If we issue significant amounts of our capital stock for such acquisitions, this could result in substantial dilution of the equity interests of our stockholders. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND REGULATORY RISKS Our revenue may be adversely affected if we fail to protect our proprietary technology or enhance or develop new technology. We depend on proprietary technology and other intellectual property rights in our various business operations. We rely on a combination of patents, copyright and trade secret protection and nondisclosure agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. In addition, we also rely on licenses of third party intellectual property rights, particularly of entertainment content. Failure of our patents, copyrights and trade secret protection, non-disclosure agreements and other measures to provide protection of our technology, could enable our competitors to more effectively compete with us and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may be required to litigate in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 35 Table of Contents We may be subject to claims of infringement of intellectual property rights of others. From time to time we may be subject to claims and legal proceedings from third parties regarding alleged infringement of trademarks, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property rights. For more details regarding this risk, see the Intellectual Property—General Section above. Federal, state, local and international government regulations may reduce our ability to provide services or make our business less profitable. We are subject to varying degrees of regulation by federal, state, local and foreign regulators. The implementation, modification, interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations vary and can limit our ability to provide many of our services. Our ability to compete in our target markets depends, in part, upon favorable regulatory conditions and the favorable interpretations of existing laws and regulations. For example, the FCC’s rules governing availability of ILEC unbundled network elements to CLECs have been the subject of on-going litigation and rulemaking proceedings. Most recently, in February 2005, the FCC made changes to these rules in response to a court order. This decision eliminated the availability of unbundled local switching at TELRIC prices, and thereby eliminated the ability of CLECs to obtain a full “UNE Platform” that provides all elements of local dial-tone service at TELRIC prices. The FCC also limited the availability of high-capacity loops and dedicated transport elements at TELRIC prices; these elements will now be available only in particular markets that do not meet tests for the presence of competitive facilities as detailed in the FCC’s rules. These changes have resulted in higher wholesale rates and may impair our ability to offer local phone service at competitive rates. We may become subject to increased price competition from other carriers due to federal regulatory changes in determining international settlement rates. Revenues from international service reflect payments under agreements between us and foreign telecommunications administrations or private carriers, which are influenced by the guidelines of the international tariff and trade regulations and cover virtually all international calls to and from the United States. Various factors, including declining settlement rates, could affect the amount of net settlement payments from carriers to us in future years. These include increases in the proportion of outgoing as opposed to incoming calls. Any federal regulatory change to international telecommunications policy and/or settlement rates, may adversely affect our revenues. Federal and state regulations may be passed that could harm Net2Phone’s business. Our ability to provide VoIP communications services at attractive rates arises in large part from the fact VoIP services are not currently subject to the same level of regulation as traditional telephony. Because their services are not currently regulated to the same extent as traditional telephony, VoIP providers can currently avoid paying some of the charges that traditional telephone companies must pay. Local exchange carriers are lobbying the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, and the states to regulate VoIP on the same basis as traditional telephone services. Congress, the FCC and several states are examining this issue. If these regulators decide to regulate VoIP, they may impose surcharges, taxes or additional regulations upon providers of Internet telephony. These surcharges could include access charges payable to local exchange carriers to carry and terminate traffic, contributions to the Universal Service Fund (USF) or other charges. The imposition of any such additional fees, charges, taxes and regulations on IP communications services could materially increase our costs and may limit or eliminate our competitive pricing advantages. In addition, we expect that recently enacted regulations requiring compliance with the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (CALEA), or provision of 911 services required for traditional telecommunications providers, could place a significant financial burden on us depending on the technical changes required to accommodate the requirements. We have received directives from some state regulators that we register as a telecommunications provider in their states. In response, we are taking the position that VoIP is not, and should not be, subject to such regulations because VoIP is an information service, not a telecommunications service. However, these states may reject our position and may subject us to regulation and require us to pay associated charges and taxes. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Net2Phone’s ability to offer services outside the United States is subject to the local regulatory environment, which may be unfavorable, complicated and often uncertain. Regulatory treatment of Internet telephony outside the United States varies from country to country. We distribute our products and services through resellers that may be subject to telecommunications regulations in their home countries. The failure of these resellers to comply with these laws and regulations could reduce our 36 Table of Contents revenue and profitability. Because of our relationship with the resellers, some countries may assert that we are required to register as a telecommunications carrier in that country. In such case, our failure to do so could subject us to regulatory action such as fines or penalties. In addition, some countries are considering subjecting VoIP services to the regulations applied to traditional telephone companies. Regulatory developments such as these could have a material adverse effect on our extensive international operations, from which we derived approximately 56% of our revenue in fiscal 2005. In many countries in which we operate or our services are sold, the status of the laws that may relate to our services is unclear. We cannot be certain that our customers, resellers, or other affiliates are currently in compliance with regulatory or other legal requirements in their respective countries, that they or we will be able to comply with existing or future requirements, and/or that they or we will continue in compliance with any requirements. Our failure or the failure of those with whom we transact business to comply with these requirements could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. New regulations, such as the requirement to provide enhanced 911, or E911, services, may increase Net2Phone’s cost of doing business and subject it to additional liability. Net2Phone expects its need to comply with new regulations to increase its costs of doing business, which means it may need to raise its prices or lower its margins, which could adversely affect its ability to be competitive and to become profitable. In addition, as we begin to offer new products and services the failure of such products and services to perform or function properly may also subject us to legal claims or actions from our customers. For instance, we intend to offer services that enable customers to access emergency services in order to comply with new FCC requirements in this area. This has required us to spend significant internal resources to develop the necessary technology, enhance our operations center to monitor compliance, and enter into agreements with service providers to provide necessary technology or services. Even with this significant effort, while these services may resemble traditional emergency services such as 911, they are fundamentally different in terms of routing and reliability. We endeavor to disclose any and all limitations of the emergency services we offer but we cannot guarantee that customers will use the services properly or read our disclosures and disclaimers. In addition, while we are working diligently to meet the requirements of the FCC’s E911 Order, it is still subject to change, and we cannot ensure that we will be able to comply with FCC regulations with respect to 911 in all of our markets, or across all of our services. This may require us to terminate certain agreements or stop providing services to some of our end users or to expand into new markets where we cannot provide E911 services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we cannot provide the service or if our service fails and a 911 call does not get through, this may subject us to additional liability if the person needing assistance cannot access emergency services. Unlike traditional local exchange service providers that are protected from this liability by statute, VoIP providers have not been granted such protection. In addition, other new and existing laws may cover areas that impact our business that include, but are not limited to: • sales, excise and other taxes; • user privacy; • pricing controls; • export and international commerce related transactions; • characteristics and quality of products and services; • consumer protection; and • encryption. While we expect additional regulation of our industry in some or all of these areas, and we expect continuing changes in the regulatory environment as new and proposed regulations are reviewed, revised and amended, we cannot predict with certainty what impact new laws in these areas will have on us, if any. For a complete discussion of what we believe are the most material regulations impacting our business, see “Business—Regulation” included elsewhere in this annual report. 37 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR CAPITAL STRUCTURE Holders of our Class B common stock have significantly less voting power than holders of our Class A common stock and our common stock. Holders of our Class B common stock are entitled to one-tenth of a vote per share on all matters on which our stockholders are entitled to vote, while holders of our Class A common stock are entitled to three votes per share and holders of our common stock are entitled to one vote per share. As a result, the ability of holders of our Class B common stock to influence the management of our Company is limited. IDT is controlled by its principal stockholder, which limits the ability of other stockholders to affect the management of IDT. Howard S. Jonas, our Chairman of the Board and founder, has voting power over 11,642,130 shares of our common stock (which includes 9,816,988 shares of our Class A common stock, which are convertible into shares of our common stock on a 1-for-1 basis) and 2,482,212 shares of our Class B common stock, representing approximately 57.0% of the combined voting power of our outstanding capital stock, as of July 31, 2005. Mr. Jonas is able to control matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of all of the directors and the approval of significant corporate matters, including any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. As a result, the ability of any of our other stockholders to influence the management of our Company is limited. 