ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following risk factors should be read carefully when evaluating the Company’s business and the forward-looking statements contained in this report and other statements the Company or its representatives make from time to time. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this report. Risks Related to the Company’s Business Continued periods of historically high fuel costs or significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s operating results. The Company’s operating results have been and continue to be significantly impacted by changes in the availability or price of aircraft fuel. Previous record-high fuel prices increased substantially in 2006 as compared to 2005. At times, United has not been able to increase its fares when fuel prices have risen due to the highly competitive nature of the airline industry, and it may not be able to do so in the future. Although the Company is currently able to obtain adequate supplies of aircraft fuel, it is impossible to predict the future availability or price of aircraft fuel. In addition, from time to time the Company enters into hedging arrangements to protect against rising fuel costs. The Company’s ability to hedge in the future, however, may be limited due to market conditions and other factors. Additional terrorist attacks or the fear of such attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, could negatively affect the Company and the airline industry. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 involving commercial aircraft severely and adversely affected the Company’s financial condition and results of operations, as well as prospects for the airline industry generally. Among the effects experienced from the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks were substantial flight disruption costs caused by the FAA-imposed temporary grounding of the U.S. airline industry’s fleet, significantly increased security costs and associated passenger inconvenience, increased insurance costs, substantially higher ticket refunds and significantly decreased traffic and revenue per revenue passenger mile (“yield”). Additional terrorist attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, or the fear of or the precautions taken in anticipation of such attacks (including elevated national threat warnings or selective cancellation or redirection of flights) could materially and adversely affect the Company and the airline industry. The war in Iraq and additional international hostilities could also have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. The Company’s financial resources might not be sufficient to absorb the adverse effects of any further terrorist attacks or an increase in post-war unrest in Iraq or other international hostilities involving the United States. The airline industry is highly competitive and susceptible to price discounting. The U.S. airline industry is characterized by substantial price competition, especially in domestic markets. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial resources or lower-cost structures than United does, or both. In recent years, the market share held by LCCs has increased significantly. Large network carriers, like United, have often had a lack of pricing power within domestic markets. In addition, U.S. Airways, Northwest, Delta and several small U.S. competitors have recently reorganized or are currently reorganizing under bankruptcy protection. Other carriers could file for bankruptcy or threaten to do so to reduce their costs. Carriers operating under bankruptcy protection can operate in a manner that could be adverse to the Company and could emerge from bankruptcy as more vigorous competitors. 15 From time to time the U.S. airline industry has undergone consolidation, as in the recent merger of U.S. Airways and America West, and may experience additional consolidation in the future. United routinely monitors changes in the competitive landscape and engages in analysis and discussions regarding its strategic position, including alliances, asset acquisitions and business combinations. If other airlines participate in merger activity, those airlines may significantly improve their cost structures or revenue generation capabilities, thereby potentially making them stronger competitors of United. Additional security requirements may increase the Company’s costs and decrease its traffic. Since September 11, 2001, the DHS and the TSA have implemented numerous security measures that affect airline operations and costs, and are likely to implement additional measures in the future. In addition, foreign governments have also begun to institute additional security measures at foreign airports United serves. A substantial portion of the costs of these security measures is borne by the airlines and their passengers, increasing the Company’s costs and/or reducing its revenue. Security measures imposed by the U.S. and foreign governments after September 11, 2001 have increased United’s costs and may further adversely affect the Company and its financial results. Additional measures taken to enhance either passenger or cargo security procedures and/or to recover associated costs in the future may result in similar adverse effects. Extensive government regulation could increase the Company’s operating costs and restrict its ability to conduct its business. Airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal compliance requirements that result in significant costs. In addition to the enactment of the Aviation Security Act, laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce airline revenue. The FAA from time to time also issues directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that require significant expenditures by the Company. The Company expects to continue incurring material expenses to comply with the regulations of the FAA and other agencies. United operates under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued by the DOT. If the DOT altered, amended, modified, suspended or revoked United’s certificate, it could have a material adverse effect on its business. The FAA can also limit United’s airport access by limiting the number of departure and arrival slots at “high density traffic airports” and local airport authorities may have the ability to control access to certain facilities or the cost of access to such facilities, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business. Many aspects of United’s operations are also subject to increasingly stringent federal, state and local laws protecting the environment. Future regulatory developments in the U.S. and abroad could adversely affect operations and increase operating costs in the airline industry. For example, potential future actions that may be taken by the U.S. government, foreign governments, or the International Civil Aviation Organization to limit the emission of greenhouse gases by the aviation industry are uncertain at this time, but the impact to the Company and its industry would likely be adverse and could be significant. The ability of U.S. carriers to operate international routes is subject to change because the applicable arrangements between the United States and foreign governments may be amended from time to time, or because appropriate slots or facilities may not be made available. United currently operates on a number of international routes under government arrangements that limit the number of carriers, capacity, or the number of carriers allowed access to particular airports. If an open skies policy were to be adopted for any of these routes, such an event could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial position and results of operations and could result in the impairment of material amounts of related intangible assets. 16 Further, the Company’s operations in foreign countries are subject to various laws and regulations in those countries. The Company cannot provide any assurance that current laws and regulations, or laws or regulations enacted in the future, will not adversely affect its financial condition or results of operations. The Company’s results of operations fluctuate due to seasonality and other factors associated with the airline industry. Due to greater demand for air travel during the summer months, revenues in the airline industry in the second and third quarters of the year are generally stronger than revenues in the first and fourth quarters of the year. The Company’s results of operations generally reflect this seasonality, but have also been impacted by numerous other factors that are not necessarily seasonal including, among others, the imposition of excise and similar taxes, extreme or severe weather, air traffic control delays and general economic conditions. As a result, the Company’s quarterly operating results are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year and historical operating results are not necessarily indicative of future operating results. The Company’s financial condition and results of operations may be further affected by the future resolution of bankruptcy-related contingencies. Despite the Company’s exit from bankruptcy on February 1, 2006, several significant matters remain to be resolved in connection with its reorganization under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. Unfavorable resolution of these matters could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. For additional detail regarding these matters, see Note 1, “Voluntary Reorganization Under Chapter 11—Bankruptcy Considerations,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company’s initiatives to improve the delivery of its products and services to its customers, reduce costs, and increase its revenues may not be adequate or successful. The Company continues to identify and implement continuous improvement programs to improve the delivery of its products and services to its customers, reduce its costs and increase its revenues. Some of these efforts are focused on cost savings in such areas as telecommunications, airport services, catering, maintenance materials, aircraft ground handling and regional affiliates. A number of the Company’s ongoing initiatives involve significant changes to the Company’s business that it may be unable to implement successfully. The adequacy and ultimate success of the Company’s programs and initiatives to improve the delivery of its products and services to its customers, reduce its costs and increase its revenues cannot be assured. Union disputes, employee strikes and other labor-related disruptions may adversely affect the Company’s operations. Approximately 81% of the employees of UAL are represented for collective bargaining purposes by U.S. labor unions. These employees are organized into six labor groups represented by six different unions. Relations between air carriers and labor unions in the United States are governed by the RLA. Under the RLA, a carrier must maintain the existing terms and conditions of employment following the amendable date through a multi-stage and usually lengthy series of bargaining processes overseen by the National Mediation Board. This process continues until either the parties have reached agreement on a new CBA or the parties are released to “self-help” by the National Mediation Board. Although in most circumstances the RLA prohibits strikes, shortly after release by the National Mediation Board carriers and unions are free to engage in self-help measures such as strikes and lock-outs. All of the Company’s U.S. labor agreements become amendable in January 2010. There is also a risk that dissatisfied employees, either with or without union involvement, could engage in illegal slow-downs, work stoppages, partial work 17 stoppages, sick-outs or other actions short of a full strike that could individually or collectively harm the operation of the airline and impair its financial performance. Increases in insurance costs or reductions in insurance coverage may adversely impact the Company’s operations and financial results. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 led to a significant increase in insurance premiums and a decrease in the insurance coverage available to commercial airlines. Accordingly, the Company’s insurance costs increased significantly and its ability to continue to obtain certain types of insurance remains uncertain. The Company has obtained third-party war risk (terrorism) insurance through a special program administered by the FAA, resulting in lower premiums than if it had obtained this insurance in the commercial insurance market. Should the government discontinue this coverage, obtaining comparable coverage from commercial underwriters could result in substantially higher premiums and more restrictive terms, if it is available at all. If the Company is unable to obtain adequate war risk insurance, its business could be materially and adversely affected. If any of United’s aircraft were to be involved in an accident, the Company could be exposed to significant liability. The insurance it carries to cover damages arising from any future accidents may be inadequate. If the Company’s insurance is not adequate, it may be forced to bear substantial losses from an accident. The Company relies heavily on automated systems to operate its business and any significant failure of these systems could harm its business. The Company depends on automated systems to operate its business, including its computerized airline reservation systems, flight operations systems, telecommunication systems and commercial websites, including united.com. United’s website and reservation systems must be able to accommodate a high volume of traffic and deliver important flight information, as well as process critical financial transactions. Substantial or repeated website, reservations systems or telecommunication systems failures could reduce the attractiveness of United’s services versus its competitors and materially impair its ability to market its services and operate its flights. The Company’s business relies extensively on third-party providers. Failure of these parties to perform as expected, or unexpected interruptions in the Company’s relationships with these providers or their provision of services to the Company, could have an adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. The Company has engaged a growing number of third-party service providers to perform a large number of functions that are integral to its business, such as operation of United Express flights, operation of customer service call centers, provision of information technology infrastructure and services, provision of maintenance and repairs, provision of various utilities and performance of aircraft fueling operations, among other vital functions and services. The Company does not directly control these third-party providers, although it does enter into agreements with many of them that define expected service performance. Any of these third-party providers, however, may materially fail to meet their service performance commitments to the Company. The failure of these providers to adequately perform their service obligations, or other unexpected interruptions of services, may reduce the Company’s revenues and increase its expenses or prevent United from operating its flights and providing other services to its customers. In addition, the Company’s business and financial performance could be materially harmed if its customers believe that its services are unreliable or unsatisfactory. 18 The Company’s high level of fixed obligations could limit its ability to fund general corporate requirements and obtain additional financing, could limit its flexibility in responding to competitive developments and could increase its vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. The Company has a significant amount of financial leverage from fixed obligations, including the Amended Credit Facility, aircraft lease and debt financings, leases of airport property and other facilities, and other material cash obligations. In addition, as of February 2, 2007, the Company had pledged all of its available assets as collateral to secure its various fixed obligations, except for certain aircraft and related parts with an estimated current market value of approximately $2.5 billion. The Company’s high level of fixed obligations or a downgrade in the Company’s credit ratings could impair its ability to obtain additional financing, if needed, and reduce its flexibility to conduct its business. Certain of the Company’s existing indebtedness also requires it to meet covenants and financial tests to maintain ongoing access to those borrowings. See Note 11, “Debt Obligations,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. A failure to timely pay its debts or other material uncured breach of its contractual obligations could result in a variety of adverse consequences, including the acceleration of the Company’s indebtedness, the withholding of credit card sale proceeds by its credit card service providers and the exercise of other remedies by its creditors and equipment lessors that could result in material adverse effects on the Company’s operations and financial condition. In such a situation, it is unlikely that the Company would be able to fulfill its obligations to repay the accelerated indebtedness, make required lease payments, or otherwise cover its fixed costs. The Company’s net operating loss carry forward may be limited. The Company has a net operating loss (“NOL”) carry forward of approximately $2.7 billion for federal and state income tax purposes that primarily originated before UAL’s emergence from bankruptcy and will expire over a five to twenty year period. This tax benefit is mostly attributable to federal NOL carry forwards of $7.0 billion. If the Company were to have a change of ownership within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, under current conditions, its annual federal NOL utilization could be limited to an amount equal to its market capitalization at the time of the ownership change multiplied by the federal long-term tax exempt rate. To avoid a potential adverse effect on the Company’s ability to utilize its NOL carry forward for federal income tax purposes after the Effective Date, the Company’s certificate of incorporation contains a “5% Ownership Limitation,” applicable to all stockholders except the PBGC. The 5% Ownership Limitation remains effective until February 1, 2011. While the purpose of these transfer restrictions is to prevent a change of ownership from occurring within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (which ownership change would materially and adversely affect the Company’s ability to utilize its NOL carry forward or other tax attributes), no assurance can be given that such an ownership change will not occur, in which case the availability of the Company’s substantial NOL carry forward and other federal income tax attributes would be significantly limited or possibly eliminated. The Company has identified a material weakness in its internal control over financial reporting associated with tax accounting as of December 31, 2006 that, if not properly remediated, could result in material misstatements in its financial statements in future periods. Based on an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, our management has concluded that such internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of such date due to the existence of a deficiency in the operation of our internal accounting controls, which constituted a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. While the controls were properly designed and did not result in a material misstatement, they did not operate effectively to ensure proper accounting and disclosure of income taxes. The Company has suffered from high management attrition during its reorganization. The material weakness was primarily related to high staff turnover in the tax department. 19 As defined in Public Company Accounting Oversight Board Auditing Standard No. 2, a material weakness is a significant deficiency, or a combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of a Company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. Because of this material weakness, there is a risk that a material misstatement of our annual or quarterly financial statements may not be prevented or detected. The Company has taken and will continue to take whatever steps are necessary to remediate the material weakness, including the hiring of staff, use of external advisors, as well as implementing a more rigorous review process of tax accounting and disclosure matters. We cannot guarantee, however, that such remediation efforts will correct the material weakness such that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective. In the event that we do not adequately remedy this material weakness, or if we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in future periods, our access to capital could be adversely affected. The Company is subject to economic and political instability and other risks of doing business globally. The Company is a global business with operations outside of the United States from which it derives approximately one-third of its operating revenues. The Company’s operations in Asia, Latin America, Middle East and Europe are a vital part of its worldwide airline network. Volatile economic, political and market conditions in these international regions may have a negative impact on the Company’s operating results and its ability to achieve its business objectives. In addition, significant or volatile changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies, the imposition of exchange controls or other currency restrictions may have a material adverse impact upon the Company’s liquidity, revenues, costs, or operating results. The loss of skilled employees upon whom the Company depends to operate its business or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel could adversely affect its results of operations. The Company believes that its future success will depend in large part on its ability to attract and retain highly qualified management, technical and other personnel. The Company may not be successful in retaining key personnel or in attracting and retaining other highly qualified personnel. Any inability to retain or attract significant numbers of qualified management and other personnel could adversely affect its business. The Company could be adversely affected by an outbreak of a disease that affects travel behavior. An outbreak of a disease that affects travel behavior, such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) or avian flu, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Certain provisions of the Company’s governance documents could discourage or delay changes of control or changes to the board of directors of the Company. Certain provisions of the amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws of UAL (the “Governance Documents”) may make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of the Company’s board of directors and may discourage takeover attempts that some of its stockholders may consider beneficial. Certain provisions of the Governance Documents may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control if the Company’s board of directors determines that such changes in control are not in the best interests of UAL and its stockholders. These provisions of the Governance Documents are not intended to prevent a takeover, but are intended to protect and maximize the value of the Company’s stockholders’ interests. While these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of the Company to negotiate 20 with the board of directors, they could enable the board of directors to prevent a transaction that some, or a majority, of its stockholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. Risks Related to the Company’s Common Stock The Company’s common stock has a limited trading history and its market price may be volatile. Because the Company’s common stock began trading on the NASDAQ National Market on February 2, 2006, there is limited trading history. The market price of its common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond the Company’s control. The issuance of additional shares of the Company’s common stock, including upon conversion of its convertible preferred stock and its convertible notes, could cause dilution to the interests of its existing stockholders. In connection with the Company’s emergence from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, the Company issued 5,000,000 shares of 2% convertible preferred stock. This preferred stock may be converted into shares of the Company’s common stock upon the earlier of February 1, 2008, or upon a fundamental change or change in control of the Company. Further, the preferred stock is mandatorily convertible 15 years from the issuance date. The Company also issued approximately $150 million in convertible 5% notes shortly after the Effective Date, and subsequently issued approximately $726 million in convertible 4.5% notes on July 25, 2006. Holders of these securities may convert them into shares of the Company’s common stock according to their terms. If the holders of the convertible preferred stock or the holders of the convertible notes were to exercise their rights to convert their securities into common stock, it could cause substantial dilution to existing stockholders. For further information, see Note 1, “Voluntary Reorganization Under Chapter 11—Bankruptcy Considerations” and Note 11—“Debt Obligations,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company’s certificate of incorporation authorizes up to one billion shares of common stock. In certain circumstances, the Company can issue shares of common stock without stockholder approval. In addition, the board of directors is authorized to issue up to 250 million shares of preferred stock without any action on the part of the Company’s stockholders. The board of directors also has the power, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any series of shares of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, conversion rights, dividend rights, preferences over the Company’s common stock with respect to dividends or if the Company liquidates, dissolves or winds up its business and other terms. If the Company issues preferred stock in the future that has a preference over its common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon its liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if the Company issues preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of its common stock, the rights of holders of its common stock or the market price of its common stock could be adversely affected. The Company is also authorized to issue, without stockholder approval, other securities convertible into either preferred stock or, in certain circumstances, common stock. In the future the Company may decide to raise capital through offerings of its common stock, securities convertible into its common stock, or rights to acquire these securities or its common stock. The issuance of additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into common stock could result in dilution of existing stockholders’ equity interests in the Company. Issuances of substantial amounts of its common stock, or the perception that such issuances could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for the Company’s common stock and the Company cannot predict the effect this dilution may have on the price of its common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 21 