Item 1A. Risk Factors Columbus McKinnon is subject to a number of risk factors that could negatively affect our results from business operations or cause actual results to differ materially from those projected or indicated in any forward looking statement. Such factors include, but are not limited to, the following: Our business is cyclical and is affected by industrial economic conditions. Many of the end-users of our products are in highly cyclical industries, such as general manufacturing and construction that are sensitive to changes in general economic conditions. Their demand for our products, and thus our results of operations, is directly related to the level of production in their facilities, which changes as a result of changes in general economic conditions and other factors beyond our control. Between fiscal 2000 and fiscal 2004 for example, we experienced significantly reduced demand for our products, generally as a result of the global economic slowdown, and more specifically as a result of the dramatic decline in capital goods spending in the industries in which our end-users operate. These lower levels of demand and the impact of divested businesses resulted in a significant decline in net sales as well as income from operations during that period. If the current economic stability does not continue or if there is deterioration in the general economy or in the industries we serve, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the cyclical nature of our business could at times also adversely affect our liquidity and ability to borrow under our revolving credit facility. 13 We rely in large part on independent distributors for sales of our products. We depend on independent distributors to sell our products and provide service and aftermarket support to our end-user customers. Distributors play a significant role in determining which of our products are stocked at the branch locations, and hence are most readily accessible to aftermarket buyers, and the price at which these products are sold. Almost all of the distributors with whom we transact business offer competitive products and services to our end-user customers. For the most part, we do not have written agreements with our distributors located in the United States. The loss of a substantial number of these distributors or an increase in the distributors’ sales of our competitors’ products to our ultimate customers could materially reduce our sales and profits. We are subject to currency fluctuations from our international sales. Our products are sold in many countries around the world. Thus, a portion of our revenues (approximately $175 million in fiscal year 2008) is generated in foreign currencies, including principally the euro, the Canadian dollar, and the Danish Krone, and while much of the costs incurred to generate those revenues are incurred in the same currency, a portion is incurred in other currencies. Since our financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, changes in currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our earnings. We currently do not have exchange rate hedges in place to reduce the risk of an adverse currency exchange movement. Currency fluctuations may impact our financial performance in the future. Our international operations pose certain risks that may adversely impact sales and earnings. We have operations and assets located outside of the United States, primarily in China, Mexico, Germany, Denmark, the United Kingdom, France, and Hungary. In addition, we import a portion of our hoist product line from Asia, and sell our products to distributors located in approximately 50 countries. In fiscal year 2008, approximately 35% of our net sales were derived from non-U.S. markets. These international operations are subject to a number of special risks, in addition to the risks of our U.S. business, including currency exchange rate fluctuations, differing protections of intellectual property, trade barriers, labor unrest, exchange controls, regional economic uncertainty, differing (and possibly more stringent) labor regulation, risk of governmental expropriation, U.S. and foreign customs and tariffs, current and changing regulatory environments, difficulty in obtaining distribution support, difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations, differences in the availability and terms of financing, political instability and risks of increases in taxes. Also, in some foreign jurisdictions we may be subject to laws limiting the right and ability of entities organized or operating therein to pay dividends or remit earnings to affiliated companies unless specified conditions are met. These factors may adversely affect our future profits. Part of our strategy is to expand our worldwide market share and reduce costs by strengthening our international distribution capabilities and sourcing basic components in foreign countries, in particular in Mexico, China and Hungary. Implementation of this strategy may increase the impact of the risks described above, and we cannot assure you that such risks will not have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our business is highly competitive and increased competition could reduce our sales, earnings and profitability. The principal markets that we serve within the material handling industry are fragmented and highly competitive. Competition is based primarily on customer service and support as well as product availability, performance, functionality, brand reputation, reliability and price. Our competition in the markets in which we participate comes from companies of various sizes, some of which have greater financial and other resources than we do. Increased competition could force us to lower our prices or to offer additional services at a higher cost to us, which could reduce our gross margins and net income. The greater financial resources or the lower amount of debt of certain of our competitors may enable them to commit larger amounts of capital in response to changing market conditions. Certain competitors may also have the ability to develop product or service innovations that could put us at a disadvantage. In addition, some of our competitors have achieved substantially more market penetration in certain of the markets in which we operate, including crane building. If we are unable to compete successfully against other manufacturers of material handling equipment, we could lose customers and our revenues may decline. There can also be no assurance that customers will continue to regard our products favorably, that we will be able to develop new products that appeal to customers, that we will be able to improve or maintain our profit margins on sales to our customers or that we will be able to continue to compete successfully in our core markets. 14 Our products involve risks of personal injury and property damage, which exposes us to potential liability. Our business exposes us to possible claims for personal injury or death and property damage resulting from the products that we sell. We maintain insurance through a combination of self-insurance retentions and excess insurance coverage. We monitor claims and potential claims of which we become aware and establish accrued liability reserves for the self-insurance amounts based on our liability estimates for such claims. We cannot give any assurance that existing or future claims will not exceed our estimates for self-insurance or the amount of our excess insurance coverage. In addition, we cannot give any assurance that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms or that our insurers would not require us to increase our self-insurance amounts. Claims brought against us that are not covered by insurance or that result in recoveries in excess of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our results and financial condition. Our future operating results may be affected by fluctuations in steel or other material prices. We may not be able to pass on increases in raw material costs to our customers. The principal raw material used in our chain, forging and crane building operations is steel. The steel industry as a whole is highly cyclical, and at times pricing and availability can be volatile due to a number of factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, labor costs, competition, import duties, tariffs and currency exchange rates. This volatility can significantly affect our raw material costs. In an environment of increasing raw material prices, competitive conditions will determine how much of the steel price increases we can pass on to our customers. During historical rising cost periods, we were successful in adding and maintaining a surcharge to the prices of our high steel content products or incorporating them into price increases, with a goal of margin neutrality. In the future, to the extent we are unable to pass on any steel price increases to our customers, our profitability could be adversely affected. We depend on our senior management team and the loss of any member could adversely affect our operations. Our success is dependent on the management and leadership skills of our senior management team. The loss of any of these individuals or an inability to attract, retain and maintain additional personnel could prevent us from implementing our business strategy. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing senior management personnel or to attract additional qualified personnel when needed. We have not entered into employment agreements with any of our senior management personnel with the exception of Wolfgang Wegener, our Vice President and Managing Director of Columbus McKinnon Europe. We are subject to various environmental laws which may require us to expend significant capital and incur substantial cost. Our operations and facilities are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign requirements relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the discharges of pollutants in the air and water, the generation, management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. We have made, and will continue to make, expenditures to comply with such requirements. Violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws and regulations, or changes in such laws and regulations (such as the imposition of more stringent standards for discharges into the environment), could result in substantial costs to us, including operating costs and capital expenditures, fines and civil and criminal sanctions, third party claims for property damage or personal injury, clean-up costs or costs relating to the temporary or permanent discontinuance of operations. Certain of our facilities have been in operation for many years, and we have remediated contamination at some of our facilities. Over time, we and other predecessor operators of such facilities have generated, used, handled and disposed of hazardous and other regulated wastes. Additional environmental liabilities could exist, including clean-up obligations at these locations or other sites at which materials from our operations were disposed, which could result in substantial future expenditures that cannot be currently quantified and which could reduce our profits or have an adverse effect on our financial condition. We make estimates in accounting for long-term contracts. We have long-term contracts with some of our customers in our European material handling systems business. These contracts are accounted for using the percentage of completion, cost-to-cost method of accounting in accordance with the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants’ Statement of Position 81-1, “Accounting for Performance of Construction-Type and Certain Production-Type Contacts”. We recognize revenue on contracts using the percentage of completion, cost-to-cost method of accounting as work progresses toward completion as determined by the ratio of cumulative costs incurred to date to estimated total contact costs at completion, multiplied by the total estimated contract revenue, less cumulative revenue recognized in prior periods. 15 Changes in estimates affecting sales, costs, and profits are recognized in the period in which the change becomes known using the cumulative catch-up method of accounting, resulting in cumulative effect changes reflected in the period. A significant change in an estimate on one or more contracts could have a material effect on our results of operations. For contracts with anticipated losses at completion, we establish a provision for the entire amount of the estimated remaining loss and charge it against income in the period in which the loss becomes known. Amounts representing penalties, contract claims, or change orders are considered in estimating revenues, costs, and profits when they can be reliably estimated and realization is considered probable. We rely on subcontractors or suppliers to perform their contractual obligations. Some of our contracts involve subcontracts with other companies upon which we rely to perform a portion of the services we must provide to our customers. There is a risk that we may have disputes with our subcontractors, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by our subcontractor or customer concerns about the subcontractor. Failure by our subcontractors to satisfactorily provide on a timely basis the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed upon services may materially and adversely impact our ability to perform our obligations as the prime contractor. A delay in our ability to obtain components and equipment parts from our suppliers may affect our ability to meet our customers’ needs and may have an adverse effect upon our profitability. We enter into fixed-price contracts. We have fixed price contracts with some of our customers, particularly in our European material handling systems business. On fixed-price contracts, we agree to perform the scope of work specified in the contract for a predetermined price. Depending on the fixed price negotiated, these contracts may provide us with an opportunity to achieve higher profits based on the relationship between our total contract cost and the contract’s fixed price. However, we bear the risk that increased or unexpected costs may reduce our profit or cause us to incur a loss on the contract which would reduce our net sales and net earnings. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 16 Item 