Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to other matters identified or described by us from time to time in this report or in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), there are several important factors that could cause our future results to differ materially from historical results or trends, results anticipated or planned, or results that are reflected from time to time in any forward-looking statement that may be made by us or on our behalf. Some of these important factors, but not necessarily all important factors, include the following: If the Merger Contemplated by the Merger Agreement Does Not Occur, It Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business, Financial Condition, and Results of Operations There is no assurance that the Merger will occur or that the closing conditions of the Merger will be satisfied, including approval of the Merger by Nevada gaming regulators. The transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement may be delayed or even abandoned before completion if certain events occur. We are subject to several risks as a result of the Merger Agreement and the Bridge Loan Agreement, including, but not limited to, the following, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition: •If the Merger is not completed, the share price of our common stock may change to the extent that the current market price of our common stock reflects an assumption that the Merger will be completed; •Certain costs related to the Merger and the Bridge Facility, including the fees and/or expenses of our legal, accounting and financial advisors, must be paid even if the Merger is not completed; •Under circumstances as defined in the Merger Agreement, we may be required to reimburse expenses if the Merger Agreement is terminated; •If the Merger Agreement is terminated, the principal balance of the Bridge Facility, and all accrued interest, would become due and payable, and if we are unable to make such payment, Parent may foreclose on the collateral securing the obligations under the Bridge Loan Agreement; •Stockholder lawsuits may be filed against us in connection with the Merger Agreement; •Our management and employees' attention may be diverted from day-to-day operations; and •We may not be able to draw additional funds under the Bridge Facility, as additional advances are in Parent's sole discretion. •A failed Merger may result in negative publicity and/or a negative impression of us in the investment community or business community generally. In addition, the process of consummating the Merger could cause disruptions in our business, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. Among other things, uncertainty as to whether the Merger will be completed may cause current and prospective employees and members of management to become uncertain about their future roles with the Company if the transaction is completed. This uncertainty could adversely affect our ability to retain employees, members of 12 Table of Contents management, and our relationships with customers and vendors. The terms of the Merger Agreement and the Bridge Loan Agreement also limit our ability to engage in certain business activities without the prior consent of Parent. The most significant of these restrictions limit our ability to pay dividends, issue or repurchase shares of our common stock, incur new indebtedness, enter into or modify material contracts, grant liens on our assets, and effect any significant change in our corporate structure or the nature of our business. If the Merger is not consummated, we will continue to be a publicly traded company, and we may not be able to pay our debts as they come due, including the Bridge Facility. Current Economic Conditions Will Likely Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations Our business is vulnerable to downturns in national and local economic conditions, including, without limitation, downturns in the economy related to threatened or actual terrorist attacks; pandemic outbreaks or similar widespread health epidemics; natural disasters; tightening of available credit; increasing government regulation, spending and taxes; increasing energy costs; increasing interest rates; declining consumer confidence; and declines in the stock market. The demand for entertainment and leisure activities tends to be highly sensitive to consumers' disposable incomes, and thus a decline in general economic conditions or an increase in transportation or other costs will likely lead to our customers having less discretionary income with which to travel to Nevada and wager. We face the risk that the effects of higher unemployment rates, higher transportation costs, foreclosures and continued pressure on housing prices, as well as business failures and stock market volatility will place added strain on consumers' ability to make purchases, repay their loans and thus, leave less funds available for travel and leisure activities. Consumer demand for gambling, due to decreased disposable income, has declined and could continue to decline as a result of the current economic conditions. We have also experienced a change in gambling patterns of our patrons, including a trend towards more conservative bets, which tend to be less profitable to the Company. Additionally, our current casino customers who purchase equipment and wagering software have experienced a decline in growth and financial performance, which will likely lead to a decrease in maintenance revenues and installation revenues. In addition, because Sturgeon's Hotel and Casino is heavily dependent on the drive-through market, especially travelers on Interstate 80, the foregoing factors have and could continue to have an adverse affect on our business. Liquidity—If We Are Unable to Raise Additional Capital in the Near Term, We May be Unable to Satisfy Our Obligations as They Become Due At January 31, 2011, we had approximately $1.5 million in cash and equivalents, the majority of which is held to fund winning tickets and future bets. Based upon our anticipated operations, we believe that cash on hand, operating cash flows, and potential financing to be provided in the Bridge Loan Agreement will be adequate to meet our anticipated working capital requirements, capital expenditures, and scheduled payments for indebtedness for fiscal 2012. No assurance can be given however that our cash flow will be sufficient, that our estimates for anticipated operational cash needs will be accurate, that new business development will or unforeseen events will not occur, that the outcome of litigation will be positive, that we will be able to borrow additional funds under the Bridge Facility, resulting in the need to raise additional funds sooner, or that we will be able to raise additional funds. We engaged a financial advisor on an exclusive basis to provide advisory services to us and we were successful in our efforts to find a strategic partner. See Item 1. Business—Bridge Loan Agreement, Merger Agreement and Plan of Merger above. 13 Table of Contents Risk of Loss due to Racusin Litigation The Company and Racusin entered into the Settlement Agreement on September 3, 2004. Racusin filed a claim for breach of the Settlement Agreement on January 14, 2009, and motion for summary judgment to accelerate amounts due, with penalty interest, on February 24, 2009. On August 18, 2009, the Court entered an order granting summary judgment in favor of Racusin that would have accelerated amounts due and imposed penalty interest at 12% per annum. We moved for rehearing in spring 2010, and at the hearing the Court verbally indicated an intent to vacate the August 18, 2009 order granting summary judgment in favor of Racusin, with the order subsequently entered on December 23, 2010. Based upon the Court's December 23, 2010, finding that an issue of material fact existed as to the potential effect on the Settlement Agreement as a result of events that occurred in the Interpleader Adversary during the period between the Bankruptcy Appellate Panel's subordination decision and the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeal's decision to reverse the Bankruptcy Appellate Panel, we filed a motion for summary judgment seeking dismissal of Racusin's still pending complaint of breach of the Settlement Agreement, and further relief on and discharge pursuant to the Interpleader Action. With respect to our claim for relief on the Interpleader Action, we contend that Racusin is not entitled to recover interest on the payment obligation that allegedly accrued during the time when we previously deposited with the Court the 250,000 shares of AWI common stock through the date of entry of the Deposit Order on November 5, 2007, when the stock was exchanged for cash (i.e., "Gap Period") and the interest that allegedly accrued during that period ("Gap Interest"). It is our position that if the Court disallows Gap Interest, or allows for an equivalent offset in restitution, we would have satisfied our entire obligation in full under the Settlement Agreement as of November 2010, and we would, therefore, be entitled to a refund of overpayments it made into the Court after November 2010. In the event the Court disagrees with our position, we would argue that we are current on payments, and that we will have paid off our entire remaining obligation in full under the Settlement Agreement by June 2012, at the current rate. If the Court determines we owe additional amounts, we believe that we have sufficient amounts allocated from the Bridge Facility to pay such obligations when due in accordance with the current payment terms. Regulation Regarding Reserves Nevada Gaming Commission Regulation 22.040 ("Regulation 22.040") requires us to maintain reserves (cash, surety bonds, irrevocable standby letter of credit, etc.) sufficient to cover any outstanding wagering liability including unpaid winning tickets, future tickets and telephone account deposits. We have historically funded this reserve requirement through surety bonds secured by restricted cash held at Nevada State Bank. As of January 31, 2011, we had cash reserves and pledge agreements totaling $2.4 million to satisfy the Regulation 22.040 requirement in addition to a float amount of $600,000 allowed by the Nevada Gaming Control Board to cover short term fluctuations in the outstanding liability. The $2.4 million amount consisted of our reserve account of $1.7 million held at Nevada State Bank and pledged certificates of deposit totaling $700,000. The pledged certificates initially expired in October 2010, but the parties agreed to extend their respective pledges without designating a specific expiration date. However, there is no guaranty that these pledges will continue. On April 13, 2011 the Nevada Gaming Control Board allowed us to reduce our reserve balance by $750,000 during the off-peak season. The Company reduced its cash deposit at Nevada State Bank by $500,000 and reduced the pledge from Robert and Tracey Kocienski by $250,000 as of April 19, 2011. We will likely have to increase our reserve in August 2011, and if we are unable to do so, it would have an adverse impact on us including, but not limited to, requiring a significant reduction in the number of race/sports locations operated by Leroy's, and/or an elimination or reduction of telephone wagering accounts, resulting in an adverse change in our operating results. We anticipate being able to increase our reserve balance as a portion of the financing proceeds from the Bridge Facility is allocated for this purpose. 14 Table of Contents We Have Had a History of Significant Losses and We May Incur Additional Losses in the Future For the fiscal years ended January 31, 2011 and 2010, we have incurred net loss of $3.3 million and a net income of $1.0 million, respectively. From our inception of revenue producing operations through the current fiscal year, we have incurred an accumulated deficit of $15.6 million. For the fiscal years ended 2001 though 2011, the Company recorded net income for six of those years and net losses for five of those eleven years. While we have implemented strategies to improve future operations including, but not limited to the following: increasing financial analysis and focusing on cost reductions; eliminating unprofitable sports book locations; investing in newer, more profitable sports book locations; investing in additional research and development aimed at new markets and technologies; and settling litigation matters; there is no assurance that such strategies will be successful. Higher than expected administrative, research and development, and/or distribution costs, could also negatively impact our financial results. The timing of the sales of equipment compared to the timing of expenses incurred may also negatively affect our financial results. Changes in our business systems, competition, or technologies affecting our products could also negatively impact our financial results. In order for us to again achieve profitability, we need to generate and sustain additional revenues while maintaining reasonable cost and expense levels. We Are Subject to Potential Fluctuations in Results Our quarterly results have fluctuated primarily due to outside factors such as professional and college sports seasons and timing of sales and installations for CBS equipment. All of the Company's wagering revenue comes from its Nevada race and sports books and nearly 19% of that is derived from professional football events. If the professional football season were to be interrupted, including by the current NFL lockout, this could have significant adverse impact on future operations. Management also estimates that a significant amount of our Nevada non-casino wagering relates to college sports and, therefore, the passage of amateur sports anti-wagering legislation could have a material adverse impact upon future operations. In addition, we generate substantial revenue from system sales and maintenance to a relatively small population of potential customers, a decline in the size, demand or number of these contracts could also adversely affect future operations. Thus, the results of any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any other interim period. In addition, we take risks by accepting wagers on the outcome of various sporting events. Fluctuations in the levels of the amounts wagered during particular times of the year and the win percentage of the wagers contribute to variations in financial results. While we have instituted measures to lessen the risk, there is no assurance that we will be able to win more of the wagers than we lose. In addition, our inability to manage the timing of the release of new products and installations can cause fluctuations in results. We Are Subject to Intense Competition There is intense competition among companies in the gaming industry, along with dynamic customer demand and rapid technological advances; and most of our competitors have significantly greater financial, marketing, technical and other resources than we do. Significant competition that we encounter may have a materially adverse effect on us. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. The state of Delaware legalized sports wagering in the form of parlay cards on professional football in 2009. This new sports wagering jurisdiction and expanded internet sports wagering could potentially reduce the amount of wagers placed in Nevada. However, this expansion could also represent expansion opportunities for our Company, but there can be no assurance that this will create a positive impact on our financial position. 15 Table of Contents Demand for Our Products and Services is Subject to Continued Acceptance of Our Products and Services We believe our ability to increase revenues, cash flow, and to maintain profitability will depend, in part, upon continued market acceptance of our products and services. There can be no assurance that the market acceptance of our products and services will continue. Changes in market conditions in the gaming industry, the general and gaming industry economic conditions, and the financial condition of host locations or patrons could limit or diminish market acceptance of these products and services. We Cannot Guarantee the Success or Growth of The LEROY'S® APP©. The market for downloadable applications permitting legal sports wagering from a mobile device is a new market in the United States. No assurances can be given that there will be commercial acceptances of the LEROY'S® APP©, that other competing mobile applications will not be developed that adversely affect the commercial acceptance of our mobile application, or that our ability to capitalize on any available growth opportunities will not be adversely affected by other risk factors previously discussed. Depending on its market acceptance, the release of the LEROY'S® APP© may limit our aggressiveness in adding new Leroy's locations. We Are Subject to Strict Regulation by Gaming Authorities The ownership and operation of gaming licenses in Nevada are subject to strict regulation under various state, county and municipal laws. In particular, the Leroy's, AWIM, AWIG and Sturgeon's subsidiaries are licensed by the Nevada Gaming Commission and are subject to extensive regulation. Together with key personnel, we undergo extensive investigation before each new gaming license is issued, and the products of CBS and AWIM are subjected to testing and evaluation prior to approval and use. Generally, gaming authorities have broad discretion when granting, renewing or revoking these approvals and licenses. If we fail or any of our key personnel fail to obtain or retain a required license or approval, it would decrease our share in the marketplace and put us at a disadvantage with our competitors. Consequently, the market price of our common stock may suffer. Any expansion of our activities could be hindered by delays in obtaining requisite state licenses or the inability to obtain such licenses. No assurance can be given as to the term for which our licenses will be renewed in a particular jurisdiction or as to what license conditions, if any, may be imposed by such jurisdiction in connection with any future renewals. We cannot predict the effects that adoption of and changes in gaming laws, rules and regulations might have on our future operations. The Gaming Industry May be Adversely Affected by Federal Legislation and Tax Laws The U.S. Congress passed UIGEA in late 2006, which prohibits any person engaged in the business of betting or wagering from knowingly accepting payments related to unlawful bets or wagers transmitted over the Internet. UIGEA prohibits financial institutions and other payment processors from processing online gaming-related financial transactions. It also expressly requires Internet bets and wagers to comply with the law of the jurisdiction where the wagers are initiated and received. In addition, the U.S. Congress has proposed several bills that would prohibit any person from accepting wagers on amateur sporting events including high school, college and Olympic events. Pursuant to the Sports Protection Act, which became effective January 1, 1993, the proliferation of legalized sports books and wagering was significantly curtailed. The Sports Protection Act effectively outlawed sports betting nationwide, excluding Nevada and sports lotteries in Oregon, Montana, and Delaware. Thus, sports books and wagering are permitted to continue to operate in Nevada, provided the wager originates in Nevada and is received by a licensed sports book in Nevada. Moreover, the Interstate Wire Act also prohibits those in the business of betting and wagering from utilizing a wire communication facility for the transmission in interstate or foreign commerce of any bets, wagers or 16 Table of Contents information assisting in the placing of such bets and wagers on any sporting event or contest unless such betting or wagering activity is specifically authorized in each jurisdiction involved. There is no guarantee that the U.S. Congress will not pass a bill which would adversely affect our operations. Additionally, federal and state tax legislation matters, including changes to current law, or new assessments by taxing authorities could also negatively impact our results of operations or financial position. An Adverse Change Affecting the Gaming Industry, Such as a Change in Gaming Regulations or a Decrease in the Rate of Growth and Popularity of Casino Gaming, Particularly Those Casinos with Race and Sports Wagering, Will Negatively Impact Our Profitability and Our Potential for Growth Our ability to grow and operate profitably is substantially dependent upon the expansion of the Nevada gaming industry and other factors that are beyond our control. These factors include, among others, the pace of development and expansion, changes in gaming regulations, the continued popularity of casino gaming, particularly those casinos with race and sports wagering, as a leisure activity, etc. An adverse change in any of these economic, political, legal or other factors may negatively impact our results of operations. Additionally, consolidation of existing gaming operations could negatively impact our pricing structure and revenue. The number of visitors to Las Vegas increased 2.7% for the year ended December 31, 2010, and gaming revenues were flat in 2010 compared with 2009 according to the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority. We May Experience Deficiencies in Disclosure Controls and Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting, Leading to a Material Weakness As of January 31, 2011, we determined that our disclosure controls and internal controls over financial reporting were not effective. See Part II, Item 9A—Controls and Procedures. Over the past few years, we have reduced staffing hours worked in the accounting and revenue auditing areas in response to macroeconomic conditions that affected Nevada's gaming, travel, hospitality, leisure, and construction industry and resulted in a weakened local economy. In addition our Chief Financial Officer resigned in February 2010. The lack of adequate staffing may cause existing controls to erode, possibly leading to a deficiency in disclosure controls and internal controls over financial reporting. While every effort will be made to monitor and retain these controls, there can be no assurance that we will have effective internal controls over financial reporting. We believe that effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports. We have and will continue to incur a substantial amount of management time and resources and significant expenses in order to comply with laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including our management's annual review and evaluation of our internal control systems. Further, we or our auditors may identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting. Additionally, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 17 Table of Contents We Are Largely Dependent on Current Management Our success is largely dependent on the efforts of Victor Salerno, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board. Although we maintain a "key person" life insurance policy and have an employment agreement with Mr. Salerno, the loss of Mr. Salerno's services could have a materially adverse effect on our business. Changes in the remainder of key management, or other key personnel or their compensation also contribute to this risk factor. Future Revenue Growth Depends on Our Ability to Improve the Effectiveness and Breadth of Our Sales Organization In order to achieve our goals for growth, and increase market awareness and sales, particularly with the AWIG and AWIM subsidiaries, we need to improve the effectiveness and breadth of our sales operations. Our gaming products require sophisticated sales efforts targeted at selected people within the gaming industry. Also, our ability to develop and refine products and technologies in a timely manner that have market acceptance, through effective marketing techniques is essential for financial success. Competition for qualified sales personnel is intense, and we may not be able to hire the kind and number of sales personnel required. In addition, we will need to effectively train and educate the sales force in order to be successful in selling into the market. We rely upon certain strategic relationships with our customers and our vendors. If we are unable to maintain these relationships or create new relationships, our results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. We May Not be Able to Protect Our Proprietary Rights and May Incur Significant Costs Attempting to Do So Our success and ability to compete are dependent to a significant degree on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, as well as confidentiality and licensing agreements to protect these proprietary rights. However, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our software or other proprietary information without authorization or to develop similar software independently. In addition, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Such litigation, whether successful or not, could result in substantial costs and diversions of resources, either of which could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition or operating results. The Market for Our Common Stock Is Limited Our common stock is thinly-traded and any recently reported sales price may not be a true market-based valuation of our common stock. There can be no assurance that an active market for our common stock will develop. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to operating performance. It is likely that the Merger consideration will act as a cap on the market price of our common stock until the Merger is consummated or the Merger Agreement terminated. Therefore, it is unlikely that anyone selling shares of our common stock before consummation of the Merger will receive more than $0.90 per share. Upon consummation of the Merger, we will no longer be a public company. Our Common Stock is Considered a "Penny Stock" and, as Such, the Market for Our Common Stock May be Further Limited by Certain SEC rules As long as the price of our common stock remains below $5.00 per share, the stock is likely to be subject to certain "penny stock" rules promulgated by the SEC. Those rules impose certain sales practice requirements on brokers who sell penny stock to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (as defined in Rule 501(a) of Regulation D promulgated under the Securities Act). 18 Table of Contents For transactions covered by the penny stock rules, the broker must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written consent to the transaction prior to the sale. Furthermore, the penny stock rules generally require, among other things, that brokers engaged in secondary trading of penny stocks provide customers with written disclosure documents, monthly statements of the market value of penny stocks, disclosure of the bid and ask prices, disclosure of the compensation to the brokerage firm, and disclosure of the sales person working for the brokerage firm. These rules and regulations adversely affect the ability of brokers to sell our common stock and limit the liquidity of our securities. The Trading Price of Our Common Stock is Volatile and Could Decline Substantially The trading price of our common stock is volatile and is likely to continue to be volatile. Our stock price could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of issues, including broad market factors that may have a material adverse impact on our stock price, regardless of our actual performance. The factors include, but are not limited to, the following: •Periodic variations in the actual or anticipated financial results of our business or that of our competitors; •Downward revisions in estimates of our future operating results or of the future operating results of our competitors; •Material announcements by us or our competitors; •Uncertainty as to the continued quotation of our stock on the OTC Bulletin Board ("OTCBB"); and •Adverse changes in general market conditions or economic trends or in conditions or trends in the market in which we operate. We Do Not Intend to Pay Cash Dividends. As a Result, Stockholders Will Benefit from an Investment in Our Common Stock Only if It Appreciates in Value We have never paid a cash dividend on our common stock, and we do not plan to pay any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Our ability to declare dividends is restricted under the terms of the Merger Agreement and the Bridge Loan Agreement as well. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to finance our operations and further expand and grow our business, including growth through acquisitions. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in its value. We cannot assure you that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which stockholders have purchased their shares. Litigation May Subject Us to Significant Expenses and Liability From time to time in the course of our business, we may be subject to litigation claims or other legal disputes, which may not be covered under our insurance policies or as to which our insurance carriers may seek to deny coverage. We also may be subject to lawsuits filed in connection with the Merger Agreement. Consequently, due to actions from third parties, we might incur adverse judgments, costly settlements or significant legal fees, any or all of which might have a material adverse effect on us. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not required. 19 Table of Contents 