Item 1A. Risk Factors We or our representatives from time-to-time may make or may have made certain forward-looking statements, whether orally or in writing, including without limitation, any such statements made or to be made in MD&A contained in our various SEC filings or orally in conferences or teleconferences. We wish to ensure that such statements are accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements, so as to ensure, to the fullest extent possible, the protections of the safe harbor established in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Accordingly, the forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to and are accompanied by the following meaningful cautionary statements identifying certain important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in such forward-looking statements. This list of risk factors is likely not exhaustive. We operate in a rapidly changing and evolving market involving the North American communications industry (e.g., bundled multi-channel video, Internet, voice and IP-based services), and new risk factors will likely emerge. Further, as we enter new markets such as healthcare and financial services, we are subject to new regulatory requirements that increase the risk of non-compliance and the potential for economic harm to us and our clients. Management cannot predict all of the important risk factors, nor can it assess the impact, if any, of such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any risk factor, or combination of risk factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those in any forward-looking statements. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that forward-looking statements will be accurate indicators of future actual results, and it is likely that actual results will differ from results projected in forward-looking statements and that such differences may be material. We Derive a Significant Portion of Our Revenues From a Limited Number of Clients, and the Loss of the Business of a Significant Client Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Over the past decade, the North American communications industry has experienced significant consolidation, resulting in a large percentage of the market being served by a limited number of service providers with greater size and scale. Consistent with this market concentration, in 2009, approximately 64% of our revenues were generated from our four largest clients, which are (in order of size) Comcast, DISH, Time Warner, and Charter. See the Significant Client Relationships section of MD&A for key renewal dates and a brief summary of our business relationship with these clients. There are inherent risks whenever a large percentage of total revenues are concentrated with a limited number of clients. One such risk is that a significant client could: (i) undergo a formalized process to evaluate alternative providers for services we provide; (ii) terminate or fail to renew their contracts with us, in whole or in part for any reason; (iii) significantly reduce the number of customer accounts processed on our solutions, the price paid for our services, or the scope of services that we provide; or (iv) experience significant financial or operating difficulties. Any such development could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and/or trading price of our common stock. Our industry is highly competitive, and while we recently have succeeded in gaining customers at the expense of competitors, there is no guarantee that this success will continue. It is possible that a competitor could increase its footprint and share of customers processed at our expense or a provider could develop their own internal solutions. While our clients may incur some costs in switching to our competitors or their own internally-developed solutions, they may do so for a variety of reasons, including: (i) price; (ii) if we do not provide satisfactory solutions; or (iii) if we do not maintain favorable relationships. The Delivery of Our Solutions is Dependent on a Variety of Computing Environments and Communications Networks Which May Not Be Available or May Be Subject to Security Attacks. Our solutions are generally delivered through a variety of computing environments operated by us, which we will collectively refer to herein as “Systems.” We provide such computing environments through both outsourced arrangements, such as our current data processing arrangements with FDC and Infocrossing, as well as internally 11 Table of Contents operating numerous distributed servers in geographically dispersed environments. The end users are connected to our Systems through a variety of public and private communications networks, which we will collectively refer to herein as “Networks.” Our solutions are generally considered to be mission critical customer management systems by our clients. As a result, our clients are highly dependent upon the high availability and uncompromised security of our Networks and Systems to conduct their business operations. Our Networks and Systems are subject to the risk of an extended interruption or outage due to many factors such as: (i) planned changes to our Systems and Networks for such things as scheduled maintenance and technology upgrades, or migrations to other technologies, service providers, or physical location of hardware; (ii) human and machine error; (iii) acts of nature; and (iv) intentional, unauthorized attacks from computer “hackers.” As noted above, we began the transition of our data center services currently provided by FDC to Infocrossing during 2009, and expect to substantially complete the transition of such services in mid-2010. Because of the magnitude of the Systems and Networks that will be impacted by this transition, the above risks of an extended interruption or outage will be significantly heightened during the transition period. In addition, we continue to expand our use of the Internet with our product offerings thereby permitting, for example, our clients’ customers to use the Internet to review account balances, order services or execute similar account management functions. Allowing access to our Networks and Systems via the Internet has the potential to increase their vulnerability to unauthorized access and corruption, as well as increasing the dependency of our Systems’ reliability on the availability and performance of the Internet and end users’ infrastructure they obtain through other third party providers. The method, manner, cause and timing of an extended interruption or outage in our Networks or Systems are impossible to predict. As a result, there can be no assurances that our Networks and Systems will not fail, or that our business continuity plans will adequately mitigate the negative effects of a disruption to our Networks or Systems. Further, our property and business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that we incur as a result of such interruptions. Should our Networks or Systems: (i) experience an extended interruption or outage, (ii) have their security breached, or (iii) have their data lost, corrupted or otherwise compromised, it would impede our ability to meet product and service delivery obligations, and likely have an immediate impact to the business operations of our clients. This would most likely result in an immediate loss to us of revenue or increase in expense, as well as damaging our reputation. An information breach in the system and loss of confidential information such as credit card numbers and related information could have a longer and more significant impact on the business operations than a hardware-related failure. The loss of confidential information could result in losing the customers’ confidence, as well as imposition of fines and damages. Any of these events could have both an immediate, negative impact upon our financial condition and our short-term revenue and profit expectations, as well as our long-term ability to attract and retain new clients. The Occurrence or Perception of a Security Breach or Disclosure of Confidential Personally Identifiable Information Could Harm Our Business. In providing solutions to our customers, we process, transmit, and store confidential and personally identifiable information, including social security numbers and financial and health information. Our treatment of such information is subject to contractual restrictions and federal, state, and foreign data privacy laws and regulations. While we take measures to protect against unauthorized access to such information and comply with these laws and regulations, these measures may be inadequate, and any failure on our part to protect the privacy of personally identifiable information or comply with data privacy laws and regulations may subject us to contractual liability and damages, loss of business, damages from individual claimants, fines, penalties, criminal prosecution, and unfavorable publicity. Even the mere perception of a security breach or inadvertent disclosure of personally identifiable information could inhibit market acceptance of our solutions. In addition, third party vendors that we engage to perform services for us may unintentionally release personally identifiable information or otherwise fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations. The occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents The Current Macroeconomic Environment Could Adversely Impact Our Business. Over the past few years, the U.S. has experienced a significant economic downturn and difficulties within the financial and credit markets. The timing, duration, and degree of an economic turnaround are uncertain and thus, these adverse economic conditions may continue into the foreseeable future. The possible adverse impacts to companies during these times include a reduction in revenues, decreasing profits and cash flows, distressed or default debt conditions, and/or difficulties in obtaining necessary operating capital. All companies are likely to be impacted by the current economic downturn to a certain degree, including CSG, our clients, and/or key vendors in our supply chain. There can be no assurances regarding the performance of our business, and the potential impact to our clients and key vendors, resulting from the current economic conditions. A Reduction in Demand for Our Key Customer Care and Billing Solutions Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Historically, a substantial percentage of our total revenues have been generated from our core outsourced processing product, ACP, and related solutions. These solutions are expected to continue to provide a large percentage of our total revenues in the foreseeable future. Any significant reduction in demand for ACP and related solutions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We May Not Be Able to Respond to Rapid Technological Changes. The market for customer interaction management solutions, such as customer care and billing solutions, is characterized by rapid changes in technology and is highly competitive with respect to the need for timely product innovations and new product introductions. As a result, we believe that our future success in sustaining and growing our revenues depends upon: (i) our ability to continuously adapt, modify, maintain, and operate our solutions to address the increasingly complex and evolving needs of our clients, without sacrificing the reliability or quality of the solutions; and (ii) the integration of our recently acquired technologies such as interactive messaging and customer intelligence with ACP, as well as creating an integrated suite of customer interaction management solutions that also include e-care and printing/mailing capabilities, which are portable to new verticals such as utilities, healthcare, home security, financial services, and content distribution. In addition, the market is demanding that our solutions have greater architectural flexibility and interoperability, and that we are able to meet the demands for technological advancements to our solutions at a greater pace. Attempts to meet these demands subjects our R&D efforts to greater risks. As a result, substantial R&D will be required to maintain the competitiveness of our solutions in the market. Technical problems may arise in developing, maintaining and operating our solutions as the complexities are increased. Development projects can be lengthy and costly, and may be subject to changing requirements, programming difficulties, a shortage of qualified personnel, and/or unforeseen factors which can result in delays. In addition, we may be responsible for the implementation of new solutions and/or the migration of clients to new solutions, and depending upon the specific solution, we may also be responsible for operations of the solution. There is an inherent risk in the successful development, implementation, migration, and operations of our solutions as the technological complexities, and the pace at which we must deliver these solutions to market, continue to increase. The risk of making an error that causes significant operational disruption to a client, or results in incorrect customer or vendor billing calculations we perform on behalf of our clients, increases proportionately with the frequency and complexity of changes to our solutions. There can be no assurance: (i) of continued market acceptance of our solutions; (ii) that we will be successful in the development of enhancements or new solutions that respond to technological advances or changing client needs at the pace the market demands; or (iii) that we will be successful in supporting the implementation, migration and/or operations of enhancements or new solutions. 13 Table of Contents Our Use of Open Source Software May Subject Our Software to General Release or Require Us to Re-Engineer Our Software, Which Could Harm Our Business. We use open source software in connection with our solutions, processes, and technology. Companies that incorporate open source software into their products have, from time to time, faced claims challenging the ownership of open source software. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software. Some open source software licenses require users who distribute open source software as part of their software to publicly disclose all or part of the source code in their software and make any derivative works of the open source code available on unfavorable terms or at no cost. In addition to risks related to license requirements, use of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls with respect to origin of the software. While we take measures to protect our use of open source software in our solutions, open source license terms may be ambiguous, and many of the risks associated with usage of open source software cannot be eliminated. If we were found to have inappropriately used open source software, we may be required to release our proprietary source code, re-engineer our software, discontinue the sale of certain solutions in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis, or take other remedial action that may divert resources away from our development efforts, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We May Not Be Able to Efficiently and Effectively Implement New Solutions or Convert Clients onto Our Solutions. Our continued growth plans include the implementation of new solutions, as well as converting both new and existing clients to our solutions. Such implementations or conversions, whether they involve new solutions or new customers, have become increasingly more difficult because of the sophistication, complexity and interdependencies of the various computing and network environments impacted, combined with the increasing complexity of the underlying business processes. For these reasons, there is a risk that we may experience delays or unexpected costs associated with a particular implementation or conversion, and our inability to complete implementation or conversion projects in an efficient and effective manner could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our Business is Highly Dependent on the North American Cable and DBS Industries. We have historically generated a significant portion of our revenues by providing solutions to clients in the North American cable and DBS industries. A decrease in the number of customers served by our clients, an adverse change in the economic condition of these industries, and/or changing consumer demand for services could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Additionally, a significant portion of our historical growth has come from our support of clients’ expansion into new lines of business, such as HSD and VoIP. There can be no assurance that our current and potential clients will be successful in expanding into new segments of the converging North American communications industry. Even if major forays into new markets by our current or potential clients are successful, we may be unable to meet the special billing and customer interaction management needs of those markets. Our clients operate in a highly competitive environment. Traditional wireline and wireless telephone service providers, and others, will continue their aggressive pursuit of providing convergent services, including residential video, a market historically dominated by our clients. In addition, content disintermediaries like Hulu, YouTube, and FloTV are trying to capture consumer attention by providing content on different devices over different networks. Should these alternative service providers be successful in their video strategies, it could threaten our clients’ market share, and thus our source of revenues, as generally speaking these companies do not use our core solutions and there can be no assurance that new entrants will become our clients. Further Consolidation of the North American Cable and DBS Industries May Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Results of Operations. The North American cable and DBS industries may continue to be subject to significant ownership changes. One facet of these changes is that consolidation by and among our core client base, the cable and DBS providers, as 14 Table of Contents well as new entrants such as the traditional wireline and wireless carriers, will decrease the potential number of buyers for our solutions. Should these consolidations result in a concentration of customer accounts being owned by companies with whom we do not have a relationship, or with whom competitors are entrenched, we could be subject to the risk that subscribers will be moved off of our solutions and onto a competitor’s system, thereby having a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Furthermore, movement of our clients’ customers from our solutions to a competitor’s system or an internally-developed solution as a result of regionalization strategies by our clients could have a material adverse affect on our operations. Finally, as the result of the consolidations, our current and potential clients may choose to use their size and scale to exercise more severe pressure on pricing negotiations. We Face Significant Competition in Our Industry. The market for our solutions is highly competitive. We directly compete with both independent providers and in-house solutions developed by existing and potential clients. In addition, some independent providers are entering into strategic alliances with other independent providers, resulting in either new competitors, or competitors with greater resources. Many of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, marketing, technical, and other competitive resources than our company, many with significant and well-established domestic and international operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully with our existing competitors or with new competitors. Client Bankruptcies Could Adversely Affect Our Business. In the past, certain of our clients have filed for bankruptcy protection. As a result of the current economic conditions and the additional financial stress this may place on companies, the risk of client bankruptcies is significantly heightened. Companies involved in bankruptcy proceedings pose greater financial risks to us, consisting principally of the following: (i) a financial loss related to possible claims of preferential payments for certain amounts paid to us prior to the bankruptcy filing date, as well as increased collectibility risk for accounts receivable, particularly those accounts receivable that relate to periods prior to the bankruptcy filing date; and/or (ii) the possibility of a contract being unilaterally rejected as part of the bankruptcy proceedings, or a client in bankruptcy may attempt to renegotiate more favorable terms as a result of their deteriorated financial condition, thus, negatively impacting our rights to future revenues subsequent to the bankruptcy filing. We consider these risks in assessing our revenue recognition and the collectibility of accounts receivable related to our clients that have filed for bankruptcy protection, and for those clients that are seriously threatened with a possible bankruptcy filing. We establish accounting reserves for our estimated exposure on these items which can materially impact the results of our operations in the period such reserves are established. There can be no assurance that our accounting reserves related to this exposure will be adequate. Should any of the factors considered in determining the adequacy of the overall reserves change adversely, an adjustment to the accounting reserves may be necessary. Because of the potential significance of this exposure, such an adjustment could be material. We May Incur Additional Material Restructuring Charges in the Future. In the past, we have recorded restructuring charges related to involuntary employee terminations, various facility abandonments, and various other restructuring activities. We continually evaluate ways to reduce our operating expenses through new restructuring opportunities, including more effective utilization of our assets, workforce and operating facilities. As a result, there is a risk, which is inherently greater during economic downturns, that we may incur additional material restructuring charges in the future. Failure to Attract and Retain Our Key Management and Other Highly Skilled Personnel Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business. Our future success depends in large part on the continued service of our key management, sales, product development, and operational personnel. We believe that our future success also depends on our ability to attract 15 Table of Contents and retain highly skilled technical, managerial, operational, and marketing personnel, including, in particular, personnel in the areas of R&D and technical support. Competition for qualified personnel at times can be intense, particularly in the areas of R&D, conversions, software implementations, and technical support. For these reasons, we may not be successful in attracting and retaining the personnel we require, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments and new product delivery objectives. We May Not Be Successful in the Integration of Our Acquisitions. As part of our growth strategy, we seek to acquire assets, technology, and businesses which will provide the technology and technical personnel to expedite our product development efforts, provide complementary solutions, or provide access to new markets and clients. Acquisitions involve a number of risks and difficulties, including: (i) expansion into new markets and business ventures; (ii) the requirement to understand local business practices; (iii) the diversion of management’s attention to the assimilation of acquired operations and personnel; (iv) being bound by client or vendor contracts with unfavorable terms; and (v) potential adverse effects on a company’s operating results for various reasons, including, but not limited to, the following items: (a) the inability to achieve financial targets; (b) the inability to achieve certain operating goals and synergies; (c) charges related to purchased in-process R&D projects; (d) costs incurred to exit current or acquired contracts or activities; (e) costs incurred to service any acquisition debt; and (f) the amortization or impairment of intangible assets. Due to the multiple risks and difficulties associated with any acquisition, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in achieving our expected strategic, operating, and financial goals for any such acquisition. Failure to Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights or Claims by Others That We Infringe Their Intellectual Property Rights Could Substantially Harm Our Business, Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright, trademark, and patent laws in the United States and similar laws in other countries, and non-disclosure, confidentiality, and other types of contractual arrangements to establish, maintain, and enforce our intellectual property rights in our solutions. Despite these measures, any of our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, or misappropriated. Further, our contractual arrangements may not effectively prevent disclosure of our confidential information or provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of our confidential information. Others may independently discover trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such cases we could not assert any trade secret rights against such parties. Costly and time consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. In addition, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Therefore, in certain jurisdictions, we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third party copying or use, which could adversely affect our competitive position. Although we hold a limited number of patents and patent applications on some of our newer solutions, we do not rely upon patents as a primary means of protecting our rights in our intellectual property. In any event, there can be no assurance that our patent applications will be approved, that any issued patents will adequately protect our intellectual property, or that such patents will not be challenged by third parties. Also, much of our business and many of our solutions rely on key technologies developed or licensed by third parties, and we may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses and technologies from these third parties at all or on reasonable terms. Finally, third parties may claim that we, our customers, licensees or other parties indemnified by us are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. Even if we believe that such claims are without merit, they can be time consuming and costly to defend and distract management’s and technical staff’s attention and resources. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected solutions, enter into costly 16 Table of Contents settlement or license agreements or pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain of our solutions. Even if we have an agreement to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable to uphold its contractual obligations. If we cannot or do not license the infringed technology on reasonable pricing terms or at all, or substitute similar technology from another source, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely impacted. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 