Risk Factors The following factors, in addition to other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Form 20-F, should be considered carefully. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operation and liquidity. The trading price of our ordinary shares could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. - 3 - This report on Form 20-F contains forward-looking statements that are intended to be, and are hereby identified as, forward looking statements for the purposes of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995. These statements address, among other things: our strategy; the anticipated development of our products; our anticipated use of proceeds; our projected capital expenditures and liquidity; our development of additional revenue sources; our development and expansion of relationships; the market acceptance of our products; and our technological advancement. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including all the risks discussed below and elsewhere in this report. We urge you to consider that statements which use the terms “believe”, “do not believe”, “expect”, “plan”, “intend”, “estimate”, “anticipate”, “projections”, “forecast” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect our current views with respect to future events and are based on assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Except as required by applicable law, including the federal securities laws of the United States, we do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Market data and forecasts used in this report have been obtained from independent industry sources. We have not independently verified the data obtained from these sources and we cannot assure you of the accuracy or completeness of the data. Forecasts and other forward-looking information obtained from these sources are subject to the same qualifications and additional uncertainties accompanying any estimates of future market size. Risks relating to our business: We have had a history of losses and our future levels of sales and ability to achieve profitability are unpredictable. We incurred net losses of $3.6 million in 2005, $2.1 million in 2004 and $21,000 in 2003. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $42.6 million. In 2006 we had net income of $92,000 which was due to income from discontinued operation of $1.6 million . Our ability to maintain and improve future levels of sales and profitability depends on many factors, which include: — the continued demand for our existing products; — our ability to develop and sell new products to meet customer needs; — management's ability to control costs and successfully implement our business strategy; and — our ability to manufacture and deliver products in a timely manner. There can be no assurance that we will experience any growth in sales or achieve profitability in the future or that the levels of historic sales or profitability experienced during previous years will continue in the future or that our net losses will not increase in the future. - 4 - We may be unable to maintain our gross profit margins. Our sales and profitability may vary in any given year, and from quarter to quarter. In order to increase sales and enter into new markets with new products we may find it necessary to decrease prices in order to be competitive. Additionally, the gross profit margin of our subsidiary, Odem Electronic Technologies 1992 Ltd. (“Odem”), whose sales accounted for 90% of our total sales in 2006, and 75% of our total sales in 2005, tends to fluctuate. We may not be able to maintain current gross profit margins in the future, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. We have limited capital resources and we may encounter difficulties raising capital, which could impede or strategy of growth through mergers and acquisitions. Continued expansion by mergers and acquisitions requires additional financial resources and especially working capital. If our efforts to raise capital do not succeed, our efforts to increase our business may be seriously jeopardized. A significant part of the revenues of our wholly-owned subsidiary, Odem, is from one major customer, Israel Aircraft Industries (“IAI”). Our business relationship with IAI involves the following risks: — An interruption in our business relationship with IAI would materially adversely impact our financial results. Sales to IAI accounted for 24% of our revenues in year 2006 and 11% in 2005. An interruption in our business relationship with IAI would result in a significant reduction in our revenues and in a write-off of inventory, and would have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. — Significant appreciation in the cost price of electronic components under a long term sales agreement with a fixed sales price with IAI, may materially adversely impact our financial results. In September 2004, Odem entered into a long term sales agreement with IAI for the supply of electronic components for two models of business jets. The agreement provides for a fixed sales price of the components during the term of the agreement through December 2008. Absent the flexibility to increase our prices as a result of increased costs of the components, significant increased costs may adversely impact our financial results. — The relationship with IAI requires us to hold a large inventory, in order to meet its short lead time and delivery requirements. If we are unable to sell this inventory on a timely basis, we could incur charges for excess and obsolete inventory, which would materially adversely affect our results of operations. Under the agreement with IAI, we are obligated to hold inventory of products necessary for three months of IAI’s production of two models of business jets. This requires us to incur the costs of purchasing inventory without having an outstanding purchase order for the products. If we are unable to sell products that are purchased to hold in inventory, we may incur write-offs and write-downs as a result of slow-moving items, technological obsolescence, excess inventories, discontinued products and products with market prices lower than cost. Such write-offs and write-downs could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. - 5 - We may be unable to maintain and continue developing marketing and distribution arrangements and expand our reach into overseas markets. Sales outside Israel accounted for 29% of our total sales in 2006 and 44% in 2005. If we are not able to maintain our existing distribution channels and expand to new international markets, our operating results may be materially adversely affected.In 2006 our sales to the Far East declined to 9.6% of our total sales from 22% in 2005 and we have decided not to focus on this market. In December 2005, we sold our Communication segment to IP Gear Ltd., a subsidiary of Qualmax Inc.,in exchange for shares of Qualmax Inc. common stock. If Qualmax is not successful in its business,we may lose the value of our investment. On December 31, 2005 we closed a transaction for the sale of our Communications segment to IP Gear Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of Qualmax Inc., in consideration of common stock of Qualmax Inc. On September 18, 2006, Qualmax announced that it had consummated the transfer of all of its assets and liabilities to New World Brands, Inc. (“New World”), in exchange for Series A Convertible Preferred Stock of New World convertible into common stock with approximately 86% of the voting power of New World. The shares of common stock of New World are quoted on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board. Immediately prior to the closing of this transaction, New World sold all of its former business operations. In December, 2006, we closed a transaction with Qualmax and its subsidiaries, New World Brands and IPGear, pursuant to which we converted approximately $1.5 million payable to us by Qualmax and IPGear into 5.50652 shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock of New World, which are convertible into approximately 16.5 million shares of New World Common Stock, reflecting a conversion rate of $0.09 per one share of Common Stock. Conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock into Common Stock was to take place automatically upon effectiveness of an amendment to New World’s certificate of incorporation authorizing an increase in the number of outstanding shares of Common Stock. On April 27, 2007, New World Brands announced the conversion of all of its outstanding Series A Convertible Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock. In connection with the transaction, we agreed to grant New World, contingent upon the satisfaction of certain conditions, a three-year option to purchase up to 30% of the New World shares held by us, at prices ranging from $0.12 to $0.24 per share of Common Stock. In addition, we agreed to enter into a lock up agreement, restricting the transfer of our share holdings in Qualmax and in New World, for up to two years. New World has a limited operating history on which to judge whether or not this company will be successful. If New World is not successful in its business or if New World’s share price is subject to a prolonged decline, we may lose the value of our investment, and be required to record an impairment of the investment, which could materially adversely affect our results of operation. We have limited order backlog. If revenue levels for any quarter fall below our expectations, our results of operations will be adversely affected. We have a limited order backlog, which makes revenues in any quarter substantially dependent on orders received and delivered in that quarter. We base our decisions regarding our operating expenses on anticipated revenue trends, and our expenses level are relatively fixed, or require some time for adjustment. Hence, revenue levels below our expectations will adversely affect our results of operations. - 6 - The sales of our Software Solutions segment in the United States depend on one master distributor.In the event that we cease working with the master distributor, we may experience an interruption in sales until an alternative source of distribution can be found, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. We market Software Solutions in the United States through one master distributor. In 2006 and in 5 our sales of Software Solutions (connectivity products) in the US market accounted for 7% and 11% of our total sales, respectively, and for approximately 21% and 25% of our gross profit, respectively. In the event that we cease working with the master distributor, we may experience an interruption in sales until an alternative source of distribution can be found, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. In late 2002 we decided to wind up the business of our subsidiary, Pacific Information Systems, Inc.(“PacInfo”), due to its severe financial situation. The wind up process was accompanied by settlements with a majority but not all of PacInfo’s creditors. An action by any of such remaining creditors would result in additional costs to the Company. Furthermore, certain actions involving PacInfo, if occurred before the end of 2003, may have triggered a tax event for PacInfo’s former owners (the “Sellers”). In such event, we may be obligated, under the purchase agreement, to grant the Sellers a loan on a full recourse basis for certain tax payments the Sellers may be liable for, currently estimated at approximately $2 million. The purchase agreement provides that the Company is to receive a security interest in shares of the Company that the Sellers hold at the time of the loan with a fair market value as of the date of the loan of at least 125% of the amount of the loan as security for the repayment of the loan. In addition, in the event we are required to loan such sum to the Sellers, we may also be required to reimburse the Sellers for certain interest on taxes that they may owe. It is possible that the wind up of PacInfo during 2002 and 2003 may have triggered such a tax event for the Sellers, which would result in our obligation to loan the Sellers such amount and to reimburse them for interest expenses incidental to the tax event. Such a loan and reimbursement may have a material adverse effect on our business condition and results of operations. Our acquisitions may not always prove successful. Over the past years we have pursued the acquisition of businesses, products and technologies and we intend to continue to search for additional growth through mergers and acquisitions. However, our acquisitions have not always proven to be successful. Acquisitions involve a number of risks, including the difficulty of assimilating geographically diverse operations and personnel of the acquired businesses or activities and of maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies. There can be no assurance that we will not encounter these and other problems in connection with any future acquisitions we may undertake. There can be no assurance that we will ultimately be effective in executing additional acquisitions. Any failure to effectively execute and integrate future acquisitions could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. We depend on certain key products for a significant part of our gross profit and if sales of these products decline, it would have a material adverse effect on us. Our Software Solutions to the IBM midrange computer communications market contributed 28% of our gross profit in 2006 and 39% of our gross profit in 2005. If sales of our Software Solutions were to decline significantly for any reason, or the profit margins on such products were to decrease significantly for any reason (including in response to competitive pressures), our financial results would be adversely affected. Over the past few years there has been a continuous global decrease in sales and revenues from our Software Solutions segment. - 7 - We have recently begun to expand our range of Software Solutions to include generic, platform independent software that is no longer solely based on the IBM System i environment and are also developing and introducing new remote data access communication products. However, there can be no assurance that the planned enhancements or the new developments will be commercially successful, or that we will be able to increase sales of our Software Solutions products. If we are unsuccessful in developing and introducing new products, we may be unable to expand our business. The market for some of our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards. The introduction of products embodying new technology and the emergence of new industry standards can render existing products obsolete and unmarketable and can exert price pressure on existing products. Our ability to anticipate changes in technology and industry standards and successfully develop and introduce new and enhanced products as well as additional applications for existing products, in each case on a timely basis, will be critical in our ability to grow and remain competitive. Although these products are related to, and even incorporate our existing products, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop and market any such new products. If we are unable to develop products that are competitive in technology and price and responsive to customer needs, for technological or other reasons, our business will be materially adversely affected. We depend on key personnel and need to be able to retain them and our other employees. Our success depends, to a significant extent, on the continued active participation of our executive officers, other members of management and key technical and sales and marketing personnel. In addition, there is significant competition for employees with technical expertise in our industry. Our success will depend, in part, on: — our ability to retain the employees who have assisted in the development of our products; — our ability to attract and retain additional qualified personnel to provide technological depth and support to enhance existing products and develop new products; and — our ability to attract and retain highly skilled computer operating, marketing and financial personnel. We cannot make assurances that we will be successful in attracting, integrating, motivating and retaining key personnel. If we are unable to retain our key personnel and attract additional qualified personnel as and when needed, our business may be adversely affected. We may be unable to successfully defend ourselves against claims brought against us. We are defendants in a number of lawsuits filed against us, and from time to time in the normal course of our business, may receive written demands for payments from prospective plaintiffs,. Legal proceedings can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations, and can require extensive management attention and resources regardless of their merit. Moreover, we cannot predict the results of all proceedings and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in defending ourselves against them. An unfavorable resolution of a lawsuit or proceeding could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. - 8 - We may be obligated to indemnify our directors and officers. The Company has agreements with its directors and senior officers which provide, subject to Israeli law, for the Company to indemnify these directors and senior officers for (a) monetary liability imposed upon them in favor of a third party by a judgment, including a settlement or an arbitral award confirmed by the court, as a result of an act or omission of such person in his capacity as a director or officer of the Company, (b) reasonable litigation expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by them pursuant to an investigation or a proceeding commenced against them by a competent authority and that was terminated without an indictment and without having a monetary charge imposed on them in exchange for a criminal procedure (as such terms are defined in the Israeli Companies Law), or that was terminated without an indictment but with a monetary charge imposed on them in exchange for a criminal procedure in a crime that does not require proof of criminal intent, as a result of an act or omission of such person in his capacity as a director or officer of the Company, and (c) reasonable litigation expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by such a director or officer or imposed on him by a court, in a proceeding brought against him by or on behalf of the Company or by a third party, or in a criminal action in which he was acquitted, or in a criminal action which does not require criminal intent in which he was convicted, in each case relating to acts or omissions of such person in his capacity as a director or officer of the Company. Such indemnification may materially adversely affect our financial condition. We may be unable to effectively manage our growth and expansion, and as a result, our business results may be adversely affected. Our goal is to grow significantly over the next few years. The management of our growth, if any, will require the continued expansion of our operational and financial control systems, as well as a significant increase in our manufacturing, testing, quality control, delivery and service capabilities. These factors could place a significant strain on our resources. Our inability to meet our manufacturing and delivery commitments in a timely manner (as a result of unexpected increases in orders, for example) could result in losses of sales, our exposure to contractual penalties, costs or expenses, as well as damage to our reputation in the marketplace. Our inability to manage growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The measures we take in order to protect our intellectual property may not be effective or sufficient. Our success is dependent upon our proprietary rights and technology. We currently rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright and trademark law, together with non-disclosure and invention assignment agreements, to establish and protect the proprietary rights and technology used in our products. Much of our proprietary information is not patentable. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, customers and potential customers and limit the access to and the distribution of our proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology without authorization, or to develop similar technology independently. We do not believe that our products and proprietary rights infringe upon the proprietary rights of others. However, there can be no assurance that any other party will not argue otherwise. The cost of responding and adequately protecting ourselves against any such assertion may be material, whether or not the assertion is valid. Further, the laws of certain countries in which we sell our products do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Substantial unauthorized use of our products could have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot make assurances that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technology. Additionally, there are risks that arise from the use of intranet networks and the Internet. Although we utilize firewalls and protection software, we cannot be sure that our proprietary information is secured against penetration. Such penetration, if occurs, could have an adverse effect on our business. - 9 - We rely on certain key suppliers for the supply of components in our products. We purchase certain components and subassemblies used in our existing products from a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers. In the event that any of our suppliers or subcontractors becomes unable to fulfill our requirements in a timely manner, we may experience an interruption in production until an alternative source of supply can be obtained. A prolonged disruption in supply may force us to redesign and retest our products. One of Odem’s major suppliers accounted for 12% of our purchases in the year 2006 and for 27% of our purchases in the year 2005. An interruption in our business relationship with such supplier would have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. New industry standards, the modification of our products to meet additional existing standards or the addition of features to our products may delay the introduction of our products or increase our costs. The industry standards that apply to our software segment products are continually evolving. In addition, since our products are integrated into networks consisting of elements manufactured by various companies, they must comply with a number of industry standards and practices established by various international bodies and industry forums. Should new standards gain broad acceptance, we will be required to adopt those standards in our products. We may also decide to modify our products to meet additional existing standards or add features to our products. It may take us a significant amount of time to develop and design products incorporating these new standards. There can be no assurance that we will not be classified as a passive foreign investment company (a “PFIC”). Based upon our current and projected income, assets and activities, we do not believe that at this time BOS is a passive foreign investment company (a “PFIC”) for US federal income tax purposes, but there can be no assurance that we will not be classified as such in the future. Such classification may have grave tax consequences for US shareholders. One method of avoiding such tax consequences is by making a “qualified electing fund” election for the first taxable year in which the Company is a PFIC. However, such an election is conditioned upon our furnishing US shareholders annually with certain tax information. We do not presently prepare or provide such information, and such information may not be available to US shareholders if we are subsequently determined to be a PFIC. We may be required to pay stamp taxes on documents executed by us on or after June 2003. The Israeli Stamp Tax on Documents Law, 1961, or the “Stamp Tax Law”, provides that certain documents signed by Israeli companies are subject to a stamp tax, generally at a rate of between 0.4% and 1% of the value of the subject matter of the applicable document. As a result of an amendment to the Stamp Tax Law that came into effect in June 2003, the Israeli tax authorities have commenced enforcement of the provisions of the Stamp Tax Law. Consequently, we may be liable to pay stamp taxes on some or all of the documents we have signed since June 2003, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. - 10 - Recently promulgated regulations provide for the cancellation of the stamp tax with respect to documents signed from January 1, 2006 onwards. We have significant sales worldwide and could encounter problems if conditions change in the places where we market our products. We have sold and intend to continue to sell our products in markets through distributors in North America, Europe and Asia. A number of risks are inherent in engaging in international transactions, including – — international sales and operations being limited or disrupted by longer sales and payment cycles, — possible problems in collecting receivables, — imposition of governmental controls, or export license requirements, — political and economic instability in foreign countries, — trade restrictions or changes in tariffs being imposed; and — laws and legal issues concerning foreign countries. If we should encounter such difficulties in conducting our international operations, it may adversely affect our business condition and results of operations. The slowdown in technology markets and technology-focused corporations in prior years has had an adverse impact on us and on the value of our shares. Our Company, like other technology companies, has been significantly impacted by the market slowdown in the technology industry in prior years. There can be no assurance that the technology market will fully recover or that our operating results will not continue to suffer as a consequence. Inflation and foreign currency fluctuations significantly impact on our business results. The vast majority of our sales are made in US dollars and most of our expenses are in US dollars and New Israel Shekels (“NIS”). The US dollar cost of our operations in Israel is influenced by the extent to which any increase in the rate of inflation in Israel over the rate of inflation in the United States is offset by the devaluation of the NIS in relation to the dollar. Our dollar costs in Israel will increase if inflation in Israel exceeds the devaluation of the NIS against the dollar or if the timing of such devaluations lags behind inflation rate increases in Israel. If we are forced to repay our short and long term bank loans and secured convertible notes in cash,we may not have enough cash to fund our operations Our short and long term bank loans and secured convertible notes contain certain provisions and restrictions, which if violated, could result in the full principal amounts together with interest and other amounts becoming immediately due and payable in cash. If such an event occurred, we might not have the cash resources to repay such indebtedness when due. In connection with the issuance of the notes, we agreed to certain restrictions upon incurring additional indebtedness such as in case of certain mergers and acquisitions. The existence of debt service obligations and the terms and anti-dilution provisions of the notes may limit our ability to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. If the notes are converted and/or the warrants that were issued with the notes are exercised, or if we elect to pay principal and/or interest on the notes with our ordinary shares, a significantly greater number of our ordinary shares will be outstanding and the interests of our existing shareholders will be diluted. If these additional shares are sold into the market, it could decrease the market price of our ordinary shares and encourage short sales although the purchaser of the notes has agreed to not engage in short sales of our ordinary shares. Short sales and other hedging transactions could place further downward pressure on the price of our ordinary shares. We cannot predict whether or how many of our ordinary shares will become issuable as a result of these provisions. - 11 - Our assets are subject to security interests in favor of holders of our secured convertible notes.Our failure to repay the secured convertible notes, if required, could result in legal action against us, which could require the sale of all of our assets. The repayment of our convertible notes is secured by a first priority floating charge on all of our company’s assets, present and future as they may be changing from time to time, and by a first priority fixed charge on all of our right, title and interest in our wholly-owned subsidiaries, BOScom Ltd. and Quasar Telecom (2004) Ltd. If we are unable to repay the secured notes when required, the holders of the notes could commence legal action against us and foreclose on all of our assets to recover the amounts due. Any such action would require us to curtail or cease operations. Risks related to our location in Israel: Political, economic, and security conditions in Israel affect our operations and may limit our ability to produce and sell our products or provide our services. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel, where we also maintain our headquarters and our principal manufacturing, research and development facilities. Political, economic, security and military conditions in Israel directly influence us. We could be adversely affected by any major hostilities involving Israel, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel. In July 2006, Israel became involved in a major military conflict with the Hizbullah organization in Lebanon, which subjected the north of Israel to missile attacks. Certain of our facilities are located in the north of Israel. Israel’s military operations required the drafting of a substantial number of reserve soldiers. In addition, the future of the “peace process” with the Palestinians is uncertain and has deteriorated due to Palestinian violence, with the threat of a large-scale attack by Palestinians on Israeli civilians and key infrastructure remaining a constant concern. The past few years of renewed terrorist attacks by the Palestinians has severely affected the Israeli economy in many ways. In January 2006, Hamas, an Islamic movement responsible for many attacks against Israelis, won the majority of the seats in the Parliament of the Palestinian Authority. The election of a majority of Hamas-supported candidates is expected to be a major obstacle to relations between Israel and the Palestinian Authority, as well as to the stability in the Middle East as a whole. In addition, several countries still restrict business with Israel and with companies doing business in Israel. We could be adversely affected by adverse developments in the “peace process” or by restrictive laws or policies directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses. Generally, all nonexempt male adult citizens and permanent residents of Israel, including some of the our officers and employees, are obligated to perform military reserve duty annually, and are subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. While we have operated effectively under these requirements since our incorporation, we cannot predict the full impact of such conditions on us in the future, particularly if emergency circumstances occur. If many of our employees are called for active duty, our business may be adversely affected. - 12 - Additionally, in recent years Israel has been going through a period of recession in economic activity, resulting in low growth rates and growing unemployment. Our operations could be adversely affected if the economic conditions in Israel continue to deteriorate. Also, due to significant economic reforms proposed by the Israeli government, there have been several general strikes and work stoppages in 2003 and 2004, affecting all banks, airports and ports. These strikes have had an adverse effect on the Israeli economy and on business. Following the passing of laws to implement economic measures, the Israeli trade unions have threatened further strikes or work stoppages, and these may have an adverse effect on the Israeli economy and our business. Furthermore, Israel is a party to certain trade agreements with other countries, and material changes to these agreements could have an adverse effect on our business. If the Israeli Government programs that we benefit from are reduced or terminated, our taxes may increase. Under the Israeli Law for Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959, facilities that meet certain conditions can apply for “Approved Enterprise” status (or be a “Benefited Enterprise”, if qualified, without prior application and approval). This status confers certain benefits including tax benefits. The existing facilities of our wholly owned subsidiary, BOScom, have been designated as Approved Enterprises. If we attain taxable income in Israel, these tax benefits will help reduce BOScom’s tax burden. In order to maintain our eligibility for the tax benefits BOScom receives, BOScom must continue to satisfy certain conditions, including making certain investments in fixed assets and operations and achieving certain levels of export. If BOScom fails to satisfy such conditions in the future, BOScom could be disqualified from receiving the tax benefits pursuant to the Approved Enterprise status. The Israeli Government authorities have indicated that the government may reduce or eliminate these benefits in the future. A termination or reduction of certain programs and tax benefits (particularly benefits available to BOScom as a result of the Approved Enterprise status of BOScom’s facilities and programs) would have an adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial condition. The anti-takeover effects of Israeli laws may delay or deter a change of control of the Company. Under the Israeli Companies Law, a merger is generally required to be approved by the shareholders and Board of Directors of each of the merging companies. Shareholder approval is not required if the company that will not survive the merger is controlled by the surviving company. Additionally, the law provides some exceptions to the shareholder approval requirement in the surviving company. Shares held by a party to the merger and certain of its affiliates are not counted towards the required approval. If the share capital of the company that will not be the surviving company is divided into different classes of shares, the approval of each class is also required. A merger may not be approved if the surviving company will not be able to satisfy its obligations. At the request of a creditor, a court may block a merger on this ground. In addition, a merger can be completed only after all approvals have been submitted to the Israeli Registrar of Companies, provided that 30 days have elapsed since shareholder approval was received and 50 days have passed from the time that a proposal for approval of the merger was filed with the Registrar. - 13 - The Israeli Companies Law provides that an acquisition of shares in a public company must be made by means of a tender offer, if as a result of the acquisition, the purchaser would become a holder of 25% or more of the voting power at general meetings, and no other shareholder owns a 25% stake in the Company. Similarly, the Israeli Companies Law provides that an acquisition of shares in a public company must be made by means of a tender offer if, as a result of the acquisition, the purchaser would become a holder of 45% or more of the voting power at general meetings, unless someone else already holds 45% of the voting power. An acquisition from a 25% or 45% holder, which results in the purchaser becoming a 25% or 45% holder respectively, does not require a tender offer. An exception to the tender offer requirement may also apply when the additional voting power is obtained by means of a private placement approved by the general meeting of shareholders. These rules also do not apply if the acquisition is made by way of a merger. The Israeli Companies Law also provides specific rules and procedures for the acquisition of shares held by minority shareholders, if the majority shareholder shall hold more than 90% of the outstanding shares. These laws may have the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control of the Company, thereby limiting the opportunity for shareholders to receive a premium for their shares and possibly affecting the price that some investors are willing to pay for the Company’s securities. All of our directors and officers are non-U.S. residents and enforceability of civil liabilities against them is uncertain. All of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States. Service of process upon them may be difficult to effect within the United States. Furthermore, because the majority of our assets are located in Israel, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of our directors and officers may not be collectible within the United States. Risks related to our ordinary shares: Our share price has been and may continue to be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for individual shareholders. The market price of our ordinary shares has been and may continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. From January 2005 through May 2007, the daily closing price of our ordinary shares has ranged from $2.15 to $3.74 per share. We believe that these fluctuations have been in response to a number of factors including the following, some of which are beyond our control: — actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; — announcements of technological innovations or new products or services or new pricing practices by us or our competitors; — increased market share penetration by our competitors; — announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; — additions or departures of key personnel; and — sales of additional ordinary shares. In addition, the stock market in general, and stocks of technology companies in particular, have from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility is often unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our actual operating performance. - 14 - The Company’s shares may be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market if it does not meet NASDAQ’s continued listing requirements. In late 2002 and early 2003 the Company received notice from the NASDAQ Stock Market that its ordinary shares were subject to delisting from the NASDAQ Global Market for failure to meet NASDAQ’s minimum bid price and shareholders’ equity requirements ($10 million) for continued listing on the Global Market. As a result of the hearing requested by the Company and supplemental information presented by the Company to the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel by the Company, the Panel determined to continue the listing of the Company’s securities on the NASDAQ Global Market pursuant to a detailed exception to the NASDAQ Global Market Rules, and the Company successfully met all the conditions set forth in the exception. On August 30, 2004, we received notice from the NASDAQ Stock Market that our ordinary shares were subject to delisting from the NASDAQ Global Market for failure to meet NASDAQ’s minimum market value of publicly held shares requirement ($5 million) for continued listing on the Global Market. On November 4, 2004, we were notified by NASDAQ that we had regained compliance with this requirement. On January 25, 2005, we received notice from the NASDAQ Stock Market that we were not in compliance with the minimum $10 million shareholders’ equity requirement for continued listing on the Global Market. Following that notice, on January 28, 2005, we received an additional notice indicating that based on further review of our financial statements as they appeared in our filing on Form 6-K dated January 10, 2005, it was determined that the shareholders’ equity was $10,601,000 on a pro forma basis as of September 30, 2004. Therefore we were in compliance with the stockholders’ equity requirement for continued listing on the Global Market and the matter had been closed. On June 2, 2005, the Company again received notice from the NASDAQ Stock Market indicating that based on the results for the period ended March 31, 2005, the shareholders’ equity was $9,425,000, and accordingly not in compliance with the minimum $10,000,000 shareholders’ equity requirement for continued listing on the Global Market. The Company was requested to provide by June 17, 2005, its specific plan to achieve and sustain compliance with the listing requirements. The Company subsequently submitted a proposed plan of compliance to NASDAQ based upon completing a previously announced private placement offering of its ordinary shares. On July 11, 2005, the Company was advised by the NASDAQ Staff that contingent upon completion of the private placement by August 11, 2005, the Staff believed that the Company had provided a definitive plan evidencing its ability to achieve and sustain compliance with the listing requirements. The private placement took place in June 2005, and consequently the Company regained compliance with NASDAQ’s minimum $10,000,000 shareholders’ equity requirement for continued listing on the Global Market. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet and continue to meet these or other NASDAQ requirements to maintain our NASDAQ Global Market listing, in which case we will have the right to apply for a transfer of our ordinary shares to the NASDAQ Capital Market. - 15 - 