Item 1A. Risk Factors We or our representatives from time-to-time may make or may have made certain forward-looking statements, whether orally or in writing, including without limitation, any such statements made or to be made in MD&A contained in our various SEC filings or orally in conferences or teleconferences. We wish to ensure that such statements are accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements, so as to ensure, to the fullest extent possible, the protections of the safe harbor established in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Accordingly, the forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to and are accompanied by the following meaningful cautionary statements identifying certain important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in such forward-looking statements. This list of risk factors is likely not exhaustive. We operate in rapidly changing and evolving markets throughout the world addressing the complex needs of communication service providers, financial institutions, healthcare providers and many others, and new risk factors will likely emerge. Further, as we enter new market sectors such as healthcare and financial services, as well as new geographic markets, we are subject to new regulatory requirements that increase the risk of non-compliance and the potential for economic harm to us and our clients. Management cannot predict all of the important risk factors, nor can it assess the impact, if any, of such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any risk factor, or combination of risk factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those in any forward-looking statements. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that forward-looking statements will be accurate indicators of future actual results, and it is likely that actual results will differ from results projected in forward-looking statements and that such differences may be material. We Derive a Significant Portion of Our Revenues From a Limited Number of Clients, and the Loss of the Business of a Significant Client Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Financial Position and Results of Operations. Over the past decade, the North American communications industry has experienced significant consolidation, resulting in a large percentage of the market being served by a limited number of service providers with greater size and scale. Consistent with this market concentration, approximately two-thirds of our current revenues are generated from our four largest clients, which are (in order of size) Comcast, DISH, Time Warner, and Charter. Although we expect this percentage to decrease to approximately 45% as a result of the Intec Acquisition, we still expect to generate a significant percentage of our revenues from these four clients in the future. See the Significant Client Relationships section of MD&A for key renewal dates and a brief summary of our business relationship with these clients. There are inherent risks whenever a large percentage of total revenues are concentrated with a limited number of clients. One such risk is that a significant client could: (i) undergo a formalized process to evaluate alternative providers for services we provide; (ii) terminate or fail to renew their contracts with us, in whole or in part for any reason; (iii) significantly reduce the number of customer accounts processed on our solutions, the price paid for our services, or the scope of services that we provide; or (iv) experience significant financial or operating difficulties. Any such development could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations and/or trading price of our common stock. Our industry is highly competitive, and while we recently have succeeded in gaining customers at the expense of competitors and entered into a long term renewal with our second largest customer, there is no guarantee that this success will continue. It is possible that a competitor could increase its footprint and share of customers processed at our expense or a provider could develop their own internal solutions. While our clients may incur some costs in switching to our competitors or their own internally-developed solutions, they may do so for a variety of reasons, including: (i) price; (ii) if we do not provide satisfactory solutions; or (iii) if we do not maintain favorable relationships. 11 Table of Contents We May Not Be Successful in the Integration of Our Acquisitions. As part of our growth strategy, we seek to acquire assets, technology, and businesses which will provide the technology and technical personnel to expedite our product development efforts, provide complementary solutions, or provide access to new markets and clients. Our recent acquisition of Intec provides us with many opportunities and challenges. Intec represents an approximate 40% increase in revenue, adds approximately 1,500 employees, and gives us operations in 24 countries where we did not previously have operations. Integrating this many people, processes, and operations presents new risks to the business that must be managed carefully. If not, it could have a material impact on operations and cause results to differ significantly from expectations. Acquisitions involve a number of risks and difficulties, including: (i) expansion into new markets and business ventures; (ii) the requirement to understand local business practices; (iii) the diversion of management’s attention to the assimilation of acquired operations and personnel; (iv) being bound by client or vendor contracts with unfavorable terms; and (v) potential adverse effects on a company’s operating results for various reasons, including, but not limited to, the following items: (a) the inability to achieve financial targets; (b) the inability to achieve certain operating goals and synergies; (c) costs incurred to exit current or acquired contracts or activities; (d) costs incurred to service any acquisition debt; and (e) the amortization or impairment of intangible assets. Due to the multiple risks and difficulties associated with any acquisition, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in achieving our expected strategic, operating, and financial goals for any such acquisition. Variability of Our Quarterly Revenues and Our Failure to Meet Revenue and Earnings Expectations Would Negatively Affect the Market Price for Our Common Stock. Variability in quarterly revenues and operating results are inherent characteristics of the software and professional services industries. Common causes of a failure to meet revenue and operating expectations in these industries include, among others: • The inability to close and/or recognize revenue on one or more material software transactions that may have been anticipated by management in any particular period; • The inability to renew timely one or more material software maintenance agreements, or renewing such agreements at lower rates than anticipated; and • The inability to complete timely and successfully an implementation project and meet client expectations, due to factors discussed in greater detail below. We expect software license, software maintenance services, and professional services revenues to become an increasingly larger percentage of our total revenues in the future. As our total revenues grow, so too does the risk associated with meeting financial expectations for revenues derived from our software licenses, software maintenance services, and professional services offerings. As a result, there is a proportionately increased likelihood that we may fail to meet revenue and earnings expectations of the analyst community. Should we fail to meet analyst expectations, by even a relatively small amount, it would most likely have a disproportionately negative impact upon the market price of our common stock. The Delivery of Our Solutions is Dependent on a Variety of Computing Environments and Communications Networks Which May Not Be Available or May Be Subject to Security Attacks. Our solutions are generally delivered through a variety of computing environments operated by us, which we will collectively refer to herein as “Systems.” We provide such computing environments through both outsourced arrangements, such as our current data processing arrangement with Infocrossing, as well as internally operating numerous distributed servers in geographically dispersed environments. The end users are connected to our 12 Table of Contents Systems through a variety of public and private communications networks, which we will collectively refer to herein as “Networks.” Our solutions are generally considered to be mission critical customer management systems by our clients. As a result, our clients are highly dependent upon the high availability and uncompromised security of our Networks and Systems to conduct their business operations. Our Networks and Systems are subject to the risk of an extended interruption or outage due to many factors such as: (i) planned changes to our Systems and Networks for such things as scheduled maintenance and technology upgrades, or migrations to other technologies, service providers, or physical location of hardware; (ii) human and machine error; (iii) acts of nature; and (iv) intentional, unauthorized attacks from computer “hackers.” In addition, we continue to expand our use of the Internet with our product offerings thereby permitting, for example, our clients’ customers to use the Internet to review account balances, order services or execute similar account management functions. Allowing access to our Networks and Systems via the Internet has the potential to increase their vulnerability to unauthorized access and corruption, as well as increasing the dependency of our Systems’ reliability on the availability and performance of the Internet and end users’ infrastructure they obtain through other third party providers. The method, manner, cause and timing of an extended interruption or outage in our Networks or Systems are impossible to predict. As a result, there can be no assurances that our Networks and Systems will not fail, or that our business continuity plans will adequately mitigate the negative effects of a disruption to our Networks or Systems. Further, our property and business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that we incur as a result of such interruptions. Should our Networks or Systems: (i) experience an extended interruption or outage, (ii) have their security breached, or (iii) have their data lost, corrupted or otherwise compromised, it would impede our ability to meet product and service delivery obligations, and likely have an immediate impact to the business operations of our clients. This would most likely result in an immediate loss to us of revenue or increase in expense, as well as damaging our reputation. An information breach in our Systems or Networks and loss of confidential information such as credit card numbers and related information could have a longer and more significant impact on our business operations than a hardware-related failure. The loss of confidential information could result in losing the customers’ confidence, as well as imposition of fines and damages. Any of these events could have both an immediate, negative impact upon our financial position and our short-term revenue and profit expectations, as well as our long-term ability to attract and retain new clients. The Occurrence or Perception of a Security Breach or Disclosure of Confidential Personally Identifiable Information Could Harm Our Business. In providing solutions to our customers, we process, transmit, and store confidential and personally identifiable information, including social security numbers and financial and health information. Our treatment of such information is subject to contractual restrictions and federal, state, and foreign data privacy laws and regulations. While we take measures to protect against unauthorized access to such information and comply with these laws and regulations, these measures may be inadequate, and any failure on our part to protect the privacy of personally identifiable information or comply with data privacy laws and regulations may subject us to contractual liability and damages, loss of business, damages from individual claimants, fines, penalties, criminal prosecution, and unfavorable publicity. Even the mere perception of a security breach or inadvertent disclosure of personally identifiable information could inhibit market acceptance of our solutions. In addition, third party vendors that we engage to perform services for us may unintentionally release personally identifiable information or otherwise fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations. The occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, and results of operations. We May Not Be Able to Respond to Rapid Technological Changes. The market for customer interaction management solutions, such as customer care and billing solutions, is characterized by rapid changes in technology and is highly competitive with respect to the need for timely 13 Table of Contents product innovations and new product introductions. As a result, we believe that our future success in sustaining and growing our revenues depends upon: (i) our ability to continuously adapt, modify, maintain, and operate our solutions to address the increasingly complex and evolving needs of our clients, without sacrificing the reliability or quality of the solutions; (ii) the integration of the Intec assets and its widely distributed, complex worldwide operations; and (iii) the integration of other acquired technologies such as rating, wholesale billing, customer intelligence with ACP, as well as creating an integrated suite of customer care and billing solutions, which are portable to new verticals such as utilities, healthcare, home security, financial services, and content distribution. In addition, the market is demanding that our solutions have greater architectural flexibility and interoperability, and that we are able to meet the demands for technological advancements to our solutions at a greater pace. Attempts to meet these demands subjects our R&D efforts to greater risks. As a result, substantial R&D will be required to maintain the competitiveness of our solutions in the market. Technical problems may arise in developing, maintaining and operating our solutions as the complexities are increased. Development projects can be lengthy and costly, and may be subject to changing requirements, programming difficulties, a shortage of qualified personnel, and/or unforeseen factors which can result in delays. In addition, we may be responsible for the implementation of new solutions and/or the migration of clients to new solutions, and depending upon the specific solution, we may also be responsible for operations of the solution. There is an inherent risk in the successful development, implementation, migration, and operations of our solutions as the technological complexities, and the pace at which we must deliver these solutions to market, continue to increase. The risk of making an error that causes significant operational disruption to a client, or results in incorrect customer or vendor billing calculations we perform on behalf of our clients, increases proportionately with the frequency and complexity of changes to our solutions and new delivery models. There can be no assurance: (i) of continued market acceptance of our solutions; (ii) that we will be successful in the development of enhancements or new solutions that respond to technological advances or changing client needs at the pace the market demands; or (iii) that we will be successful in supporting the implementation, migration and/or operations of enhancements or new solutions. Our International Operations Subject Us to Additional Risks. We maintain development facilities in South Africa, Ireland, Malaysia, India, Australia, and the United States, and have operations in North America, Europe, Latin America, and the Asia-Pacific region. Although a substantial percentage of our revenue is derived from customers in North America and Europe, we obtain significant revenue from customers in the Asia-Pacific, African, and Latin America regions. Our strategy is to continue to broaden our presence in those geographies with the greatest growth potential, which will likely result in an increase in business outside of the United States. We are subject to certain risks associated with operating internationally including the following: • Difficulties with product development meeting local requirements; • Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates for which a natural or purchased hedge does not exist or is ineffective; • Difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • Longer sales cycles for new contracts; • Longer collection cycles for client billings or accounts receivable, as well as heightened client collection risks, especially in countries with highly inflationary economies and/or with restrictions on the movement of cash out of the country; • Trade barriers; • Difficulties in complying with varied legal and regulatory requirements across jurisdictions; 14 Table of Contents • Reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • Inability to recover value added taxes and/or goods and services taxes in foreign jurisdictions; • Political instability and threats of terrorism; and • A potential adverse impact to our overall effective income tax rate resulting from, among other things: • Operations in foreign countries with higher tax rates than the United States; • The inability to utilize certain foreign tax credits; and • The inability to utilize some or all of losses generated in one or more foreign countries. One or more of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our international operations, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial position. Our Use of Open Source Software May Subject Us to Certain Intellectual Property-Related Claims or Require Us to Re-Engineer Our Software, Which Could Harm Our Business. We use open source software in connection with our solutions, processes, and technology. Companies that use or incorporate open source software into their products have, from time to time, faced claims challenging their use, ownership and/or licensing rights associated with that open source software. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming certain rights to what we believe to be open source software. Some open source software licenses require users who distribute open source software as part of their software to publicly disclose all or part of the source code in their software and make any derivative works of the open source code available on unfavorable terms or at no cost. In addition to risks related to license requirements, use of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls with respect to origin of the software. While we take measures to protect our use of open source software in our solutions, open source license terms may be ambiguous, and many of the risks associated with usage of open source software cannot be eliminated. If we were found to have inappropriately used open source software, we may be required to release our proprietary source code, re-engineer our software, discontinue the sale of certain solutions in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis, or take other remedial action that may divert resources away from our development efforts, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial position, and results of operations. The Current Macroeconomic Environment Could Adversely Impact Our Business. Over the past few years, major economies where we operate have experienced significant economic stress and difficulties within the financial and credit markets. The timing, duration, and degree of an economic turnaround are uncertain and thus, these adverse economic conditions may continue into the foreseeable future. The possible adverse impacts to companies during these times include a reduction in revenues, decreasing profits and cash flows, distressed or default debt conditions, and/or difficulties in obtaining necessary operating capital. All companies are likely to be impacted by the current economic downturn to a certain degree, including CSG, our clients, and/or key vendors in our supply chain. There can be no assurances regarding the performance of our business, and the potential impact to our clients and key vendors, resulting from the current economic conditions. A Reduction in Demand for Our Key Customer Care and Billing Solutions Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Financial Position and Results of Operations. Historically, a substantial percentage of our total revenues have been generated from our core outsourced processing product, ACP, and related solutions. These solutions are expected to continue to provide a large percentage of our total revenues in the foreseeable future. Any significant reduction in demand for ACP and related solutions could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Likewise, a large percentage of revenues derived from the Intec business have been derived from wholesale billing, retail billing and mediation products which are typically associated with large implementation projects. A sudden downward shift in demand for these products or for our professional services engagements for these products could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We May Not Be Able to Efficiently and Effectively Implement New Solutions or Convert Clients onto Our Solutions. Our continued growth plans include the implementation of new solutions, as well as converting both new and existing clients to our solutions. Such implementations or conversions, whether they involve new solutions or new customers, have become increasingly more difficult because of the sophistication, complexity and interdependencies of the various computing and network environments impacted, combined with the increasing complexity of the underlying business processes. For these reasons, there is a risk that we may experience delays or unexpected costs associated with a particular implementation or conversion, and our inability to complete implementation or conversion projects in an efficient and effective manner could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our Business is Dependent Upon the Economic and Market Condition of the Global Communications Industry. Since the majority of our clients operate within this industry sector, the economic state of this industry directly impacts our business. The global communications industry has undergone significant fluctuations in growth rates and capital investment cycles in the past decade. Current economic indices suggest a slow stabilization of the industry, but it is impossible to predict whether this stabilization will persist or be subject to future instability. In addition, consolidation amongst providers continues as service providers look for ways to expand their markets and increase their revenues. Continued consolidation, a significant retrenchment in investment by communications providers, or even a material slowing in growth (whether caused by economic, competitive or consolidation factors) could cause delays or cancellations of sales and services currently included in our forecasts. This could cause us to either fall short of revenue expectations or have a cost model that is misaligned with revenues, either or both of which could have a material adverse effect on operations and financial results. More specific, approximately 60% of our future revenues are expected to be generated from our North American cable and DBS operations. These clients operate in a highly competitive environment. Competitors range from traditional wireline and wireless providers to new entrants like new content aggregators such as Hulu, YouTube, and Netflix. Should these competitors be successful in their video strategies, it could threaten our clients’ market share, and thus our source of revenues, as generally speaking these companies do not use our core solutions and there can be no assurance that new entrants will become our clients. In addition, demand for spectrum, network bandwidth and content continues to increase and any changes in the regulatory environment could have a significant impact to not only our clients’ businesses, but in our ability to help our clients be successful. We Face Significant Competition in Our Industry. The market for our solutions is highly competitive. We directly compete with both independent providers and in-house solutions developed by existing and potential clients. In addition, some independent providers are entering into strategic alliances with other independent providers, resulting in either new competitors, or competitors with greater resources. Many of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, marketing, technical, and other competitive resources than our company, many with significant and well-established domestic and international operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully with our existing competitors or with new competitors. 16 Table of Contents Failure to Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights or Claims by Others That We Infringe Their Intellectual Property Rights Could Substantially Harm Our Business, Financial Position and Results of Operations. We rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright, trademark, and patent laws in the United States and similar laws in other countries, and non-disclosure, confidentiality, and other types of contractual arrangements to establish, maintain, and enforce our intellectual property rights in our solutions. Despite these measures, any of our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, or misappropriated. Further, our contractual arrangements may not effectively prevent disclosure of our confidential information or provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of our confidential information. Others may independently discover trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such cases we could not assert any trade secret rights against such parties. Costly and time consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. In addition, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Therefore, in certain jurisdictions, we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third party copying or use, which could adversely affect our competitive position. Although we hold a limited number of patents and patent applications on some of our newer solutions, we do not rely upon patents as a primary means of protecting our rights in our intellectual property. In any event, there can be no assurance that our patent applications will be approved, that any issued patents will adequately protect our intellectual property, or that such patents will not be challenged by third parties. Also, much of our business and many of our solutions rely on key technologies developed or licensed by third parties, and we may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses and technologies from these third parties at all or on reasonable terms. Finally, third parties may claim that we, our customers, licensees or other parties indemnified by us are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. Even if we believe that such claims are without merit, they can be time consuming and costly to defend and distract management’s and technical staff’s attention and resources. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected solutions, enter into costly settlement or license agreements or pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain of our solutions. Even if we have an agreement to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable to uphold its contractual obligations. If we cannot or do not license the infringed technology on reasonable pricing terms or at all, or substitute similar technology from another source, our business, financial position, and results of operations could be adversely impacted. Our failure to adequately establish, maintain, and protect our intellectual property rights could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial position, and results of operations. Client Bankruptcies Could Adversely Affect Our Business. In the past, certain of our clients have filed for bankruptcy protection. As a result of the current economic conditions and the additional financial stress this may place on companies, the risk of client bankruptcies is significantly heightened. Companies involved in bankruptcy proceedings pose greater financial risks to us, consisting principally of the following: (i) a financial loss related to possible claims of preferential payments for certain amounts paid to us prior to the bankruptcy filing date, as well as increased risk of collection for accounts receivable, particularly those accounts receivable that relate to periods prior to the bankruptcy filing date; and/or (ii) the possibility of a contract being unilaterally rejected as part of the bankruptcy proceedings, or a client in bankruptcy may attempt to renegotiate more favorable terms as a result of their deteriorated financial condition, thus, negatively impacting our rights to future revenues subsequent to the bankruptcy filing. We consider these risks in assessing our revenue recognition and our ability to collect accounts receivable related to our clients that have filed for bankruptcy protection, and for those clients that are seriously threatened with a possible bankruptcy filing. We establish accounting reserves for our estimated exposure on these items which can materially impact the results of our operations in the period such reserves are established. There can be no assurance that our accounting reserves related to this exposure will be adequate. Should any of the factors 17 Table of Contents considered in determining the adequacy of the overall reserves change adversely, an adjustment to the accounting reserves may be necessary. Because of the potential significance of this exposure, such an adjustment could be material. We May Incur Material Restructuring Charges in the Future. In the past, we have recorded restructuring charges related to involuntary employee terminations, various facility abandonments, and various other restructuring activities. We continually evaluate ways to reduce our operating expenses through new restructuring opportunities, including more effective utilization of our assets, workforce, and operating facilities. As a result, there is a risk, which is increased during economic downturns and with expanded global operations, that we may incur material restructuring charges in the future. Substantial Impairment of Goodwill and Other Long-lived Assets in the Future May Be Possible. As a result of various acquisitions and the growth of our company over the last several years, we have approximately $209 million of goodwill, and $200 million of long-lived assets other than goodwill (principally, property and equipment, software, and client contracts). These long-lived assets are subject to ongoing assessment of possible impairment summarized as follows: • Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment on an annual basis. We have elected to do our annual test for possible impairment as of July 31 of each year. In addition to this annual requirement, goodwill is required to be evaluated for possible impairment on a periodic basis (e.g., quarterly) if events occur or circumstances change that could indicate a possible impairment may have occurred. • Long-lived assets other than goodwill are required to be evaluated for possible impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable. We utilize cash flow models as the primary basis to estimate the fair value amounts used in our goodwill and other long-lived asset impairment valuations. Our estimates of fair value are based upon various key modeling assumptions such as: (i) projected future sales, which include assumptions around market penetration and growth, and the success of any new product and service offerings; (ii) the profitability of future operations; and (iii) the appropriate discount rate. If we do not achieve our near-term or long-term financial or operating goals for a variety of reasons (e.g., a significant adverse change in the legal environment or in the business climate, unanticipated or increased competition, an unexpected change in strategic direction towards product solutions, or target markets, and/or loss of key personnel), it may require us to modify our assumptions in future periods such that the estimated fair value of one or more of our long-lived assets is materially changed, which may result in an impairment loss. If an impairment was to be recorded in the future, it would likely materially impact our results of operations in the period such impairment is recognized, but such an impairment charge would be a non-cash expense, and therefore would have no impact on our cash flows, or on the financial position of our company. Failure to Attract and Retain Our Key Management and Other Highly Skilled Personnel Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business. Our future success depends in large part on the continued service of our key management, sales, product development, professional services, and operational personnel. We believe that our future success also depends on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical, managerial, operational, and marketing personnel, including, in particular, personnel in the areas of R&D, professional services, and technical support. Competition for qualified personnel at times can be intense, particularly in the areas of R&D, conversions, software implementations, and technical support. This risk is heightened with a widely dispersed customer base and employee populations. For these reasons, we may not be successful in attracting and retaining the personnel we require, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments and new product delivery objectives. 18 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 