Risk Factors In addition to other matters identified or described by us in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and from time to time in other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, there are several important factors that could cause our future results to differ materially from historical results or trends, results anticipated or planned by us, or results that are reflected from time to time in any forward-looking statement that may be made by us or on our behalf. Certain, but not all, of these important factors, are described below. We may not be able to successfully execute our key initiatives Beginning in the third quarter of Fiscal 2004, we have undertaken a series of related initiatives to make fundamental improvements in our business, profitability and cash flow. These initiatives have primarily focused on: improving the breadth of assortment and quality of our products and related product pricing; reconfiguring our in-store product layout to better align product categories and facilitate an easier shopping experience for our customers; improving logistics, including financial, distribution and inventory systems; and building our talent base. 11 Table of Contents In connection with the implementation of these initiatives, we have generated significant initial investment expenses that are disproportionate to our sales performance. However, we anticipate these expenses will normalize over time. Most importantly, these initiatives are anticipated to improve customer experience and solidify brand recognition. We believe these initiatives along with increased promotional and advertising activity should provide the basis for improved financial performance during Fiscal 2006. Should our customers respond less favorably to our merchandise offerings, it could have a material adverse impact on our revenues and operating income. An effective franchise program is key to our success Our growth and success depends in part upon our ability to contract with and retain qualified franchisees, as well as the ability of those franchisees to operate their stores and promote and develop our store concept. Although we have established criteria to evaluate prospective franchisees and our franchise agreements include certain operating standards, each franchisee operates independently. Applicable franchise laws may delay or prevent us from terminating a franchise or withholding consent to renew or transfer a franchise. As a franchisor, we are subject to federal and state laws regulating the offer and sale of franchises. These laws impose registration and extensive disclosure requirements on the offer and sale of franchises. We cannot assure you that our franchisees will operate stores in a manner consistent with our concept and standards, which could reduce the gross revenues of these stores and therefore reduce our franchise revenue. The closing of unprofitable stores or the failure of franchisees to comply with our policies could adversely affect our reputation and could reduce the amount of our franchise revenues. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating income. If we are unable to attract new franchisees or to convince existing franchisees to open additional stores, any growth in royalties from franchised stores will depend solely upon increases in revenues at existing franchised stores, which could be minimal. In addition, our ability to open additional franchise locations is limited by the territorial restrictions in our existing franchise agreements as well as our ability to identify additional markets in the United States that are not currently saturated with the products we offer. If we are unable to open additional franchise locations, we will have to sustain additional growth through acquisitions, opening new Company-owned stores and by attracting new and repeat customers to our existing locations. If we are unable to do so, our revenues and operating income may decline significantly. A downturn in the economy may affect consumer purchases of discretionary items, which could reduce our sales In general, our sales represent discretionary spending by our customers. Discretionary spending is affected by many factors, including, among others, general business conditions, interest rates, the availability of consumer credit, taxation, weather and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Our customers’ purchases of discretionary items, including our products, could decline during periods when disposable income is lower or during periods of actual or perceived unfavorable economic conditions. If this occurs, our revenues and profitability will decline. In addition, our sales could be adversely affected by a downturn in the economic conditions in the markets in which we operate. On August 28, 2005, Hurricane Katrina stormed through the southeastern section of the United States, severely impacting lives and businesses in the Gulf Coast area. One of our franchisees operates 18 stores in Louisiana, Alabama, Mississippi, and Florida. No corporate stores are operated in the affected areas. Seven stores are either damaged or destroyed, with all other stores having reopened. It is unknown at this time how long, if at all, it will take for these seven stores to recover, and for that reason these stores have been removed from our store count as of August 30, 2005. At this time we do not expect this occurrence to have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. 12 Table of Contents If we are unable to identify and anticipate changes in consumer demands and preferences, or we are unable to respond to such consumer demands in a timely manner, our sales could decline Our products appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to rapid change. Our success depends on our ability to identify product trends as well as to anticipate and respond to changing merchandise trends and consumer demand in a timely manner. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to offer assortments of products that appeal to our customers or that we will satisfy changing consumer demands in the future. In addition, if consumer demand for single-use, disposable party goods were to diminish, the party supply and paper goods industry and our revenues would be negatively affected. For example, if cost increases in raw materials such as paper, plastic, cardboard or petroleum were to cause our prices to increase significantly, consumers might decide to forgo the convenience associated with single-use, disposable products. Similarly, changes in consumer preferences away from disposable products and in favor of reusable products for environmental or other reasons could reduce the demand for our products. We also sell certain licensed products that are in great demand for short time periods, making it difficult to project our inventory needs for these products. Accordingly, if: • we are unable to identify and respond to emerging trends; • we miscalculate either the market for the merchandise in our stores or our customers’ purchasing habits; or • consumer demand dramatically shifts away from disposable party supplies, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow could be materially adversely affected. In addition, we may be faced with significant excess inventory of some products and missed opportunities for other products, which would decrease our profitability. If we lose any of our key vendors or any of our key vendors fail to supply us with merchandise, we may not be able to meet the demands of our customers and our sales could decline Our business is dependent to a significant degree upon strong relationships with vendors and our ability to purchase brand name and private label merchandise at competitive prices. As is customary in our industry, we generally do not have long-term contracts with any supplier and any supplier may discontinue selling to us at any time. During Fiscal 2005, we purchased approximately 40% of the aggregate amount of our merchandise from four vendors. The loss of any of these key vendors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to acquire such merchandise at competitive prices or on competitive terms in the future. In this regard, certain merchandise that is in high demand may be allocated by vendors based upon the vendors’ internal criteria that are beyond our control, and consequently we may receive less product than we anticipated. Many of our vendors currently provide us with incentives like volume purchasing allowances and trade discounts. If our vendors were to reduce or discontinue these incentives, prices from our vendors could increase and our profitability would be reduced. As is customary in our industry, we generally do not have long-term contracts with any vendor and any vendor may discontinue selling to us at any time. In addition, we believe many of our vendors source their products from China, Mexico and other foreign countries. A vendor may discontinue selling products manufactured in foreign countries at any time for reasons that may or may not be in our control, including foreign government regulations, political unrest, war, disruption or delays in shipments, changes in local economic conditions and trade issues. If we are unable to replace a vendor promptly who is unwilling or unable to satisfy our requirements with a vendor providing equally appealing products, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues and operating income. We face a high level of competition in our markets We operate in highly competitive markets. Our stores compete with a variety of smaller and larger retailers, including, but not limited to, single owner-operated party supply stores, specialty party supplies and 13 Table of Contents paper goods retailers (including superstores), warehouse/merchandise clubs, designated departments in drug stores, general mass merchandisers, supermarkets and department stores of local, regional and national chains and catalog and Internet merchandisers. Major chain competitors in our market for specialty party supply and paper goods retailers include iParty Corp., Factory Card and Party Outlet Corp. and Party America, Inc. In addition, other stores or Internet merchandisers may enter the market and become significant competitors in the future. Our stores compete, among other things, on the basis of location and store layout, product mix, customer convenience and price. Some of our competitors in our markets have greater financial resources than we do. As a result of this competition, we may need to spend more on advertising and promotion than we anticipate. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors. Expansion into markets served by our competitors and entry of new competitors or expansion of existing competitors into our markets could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. A Special Committee of our Board is considering various strategic alternatives, the consummation of which may have a material effect on our business and stock price During the third quarter of Fiscal 2005, we announced that our Board of Directors had formed a Special Committee consisting of certain of our independent directors to explore strategic alternatives, and that the Company had received inquiries from more than one entity interested in engaging in a strategic combination with Party City. Subsequently, we announced the engagement of Credit Suisse First Boston as our financial advisor to assist the Company in its exploration of strategic alternatives. Investors are cautioned that there can be no assurance that the consideration of strategic alternatives by the Special Committee will lead to any action by Party City, including a definitive proposal or agreement with respect to a strategic combination on terms that the Board of Directors believes will be in the best interests of the shareholders of Party City. If the Board of Directors approves any strategic alternative and such strategic alternative is consummated, it could have a material effect on our business and stock price. We may need to raise additional capital to fund our operations Our management currently believes that the cash generated by operations, together with the borrowing availability under the Loan Agreement, will be sufficient to meet our working capital needs for the next twelve months, including investments made and expenses incurred in connection with technology to improve merchandising and distribution systems, support cost reduction initiatives, and improved efficiencies. However, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives to raise cash, such as incur indebtedness, selling our assets, seeking to raise additional debt or equity capital or restructuring. If adequate financing is unavailable or is unavailable on acceptable terms, we may be unable to maintain, develop or enhance our operations, products and services, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. If we fail to protect our brand name, competitors may adopt tradenames that dilute the value of our brand name We have invested significant resources in our Party City brand name in order to obtain the public recognition that we currently have. However, we may be unable or unwilling to strictly enforce our trademarks in each jurisdiction in which we do business. Also, we may not always be able to successfully enforce our trademarks against competitors, or against challenges by others. Our failure to successfully protect our trademarks could diminish the value and efficacy of our past and future marketing efforts, and could cause customer confusion, which could, in turn, adversely affect our revenues and profitability. 14 Table of Contents Our operating results are subject to seasonal and quarterly fluctuations, as well as the timing of store openings and closings, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline Our business is subject to substantial seasonal variations. Historically, we have realized a significant portion of our net sales, net income and cash flow in the second fiscal quarter of the year, principally due to the sales in October for the Halloween season and, to a lesser extent, due to sales for end of year holidays. We believe this general pattern will continue in the future. An economic downturn during this period could adversely affect us to a greater extent than if such downturn occurred at other times of the year. Our results of operations and cash flows may also fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of other factors, including the timing of new store openings, store closings and timing of the potential disposition and acquisition of stores. We opened one new Company-owned store and closed three Company-owned stores in Fiscal 2005. In Fiscal 2006, we currently plan to open 10 temporary Halloween stores and as many as 10 to 15 conventional Company-owned stores, and we also expect some store closings and relocations. Our results of operations and cash flows may vary significantly as a result of the timing of new store openings, the amount and timing of net sales contributed by new stores, the level of pre-opening expenses associated with new stores and the relative proportion of new stores to mature stores. Any significant decline in our results of operations and cash flows as a result of these variations could adversely affect our stock price. We may be unable to achieve our expansion plans for future growth Our continued growth will depend, in significant part, upon our ability to open new stores, such as those noted above, in a timely manner and to operate them profitably. Our expansion is also dependent on the effective continuation and management of our franchise program. Furthermore, successful expansion is subject to various contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. These contingencies include, among others, our ability and our franchisees’ ability to (i) identify and secure suitable store sites on a timely basis, negotiate advantageous lease terms and complete any necessary construction or refurbishment of these sites; (ii) adapt to different local and regional preferences and customs and compete against local businesses which are unfamiliar to us; and (iii) integrate successfully new stores into existing operations. As our business grows, we will need to attract and retain additional qualified personnel in a timely manner and develop, train and manage an increasing number of management level and other employees. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain personnel as needed in the future. Additionally, if we are not able to hire capable store managers and other store level personnel, we will not be able to open new stores as planned and our revenue growth and operating results will suffer. We cannot give any assurances that we will be able to continue our expansion plans successfully, that we will be able to achieve results similar to those achieved with prior locations, or that we will be able to continue to manage our growth effectively. Our failure to achieve our expansion plans could have a materially adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we expect our operating margins will be impacted by new store openings because of the addition of pre-opening expenses and the lower sales volume characteristic of new stores. Furthermore, the opening of additional stores in existing markets may attract some of our customers away from our other stores already in operation and diminish their sales. In the event we are unable to satisfy regulatory requirements relating to internal controls, or if our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective, our business and stock price could suffer Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we were required during Fiscal 2005 to perform an evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting and have our auditor publicly attest to such evaluation. Compliance with these requirements has been expensive and time-consuming. In designing and evaluating our internal controls over financial reporting, we recognize that any internal control or procedure, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving desired control objectives. For example, a company’s operations may change over time as the result of new or discontinued lines of business and management must periodically modify a company’s internal controls and procedures to timely match these changes in its business. In addition, management is required to apply its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures and company 15 Table of Contents personnel are required to use judgment in their application. No system of internal controls can be designed to provide absolute assurance of effectiveness. A material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. During the audit of our consolidated financial statements for Fiscal 2005, Deloitte & Touche LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm, and management notified our audit committee that we had identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. In particular, during the financial closing and reporting process in connection with the audit, errors were identified that resulted from a weakness in our financial closing and reporting process, specifically, review, monitoring and analysis of selected account balances and technical interpretation of GAAP. These deficiencies resulted in adjustments to the consolidated financial statements as of July 2, 2005 of which two were material errors: (i) we incorrectly calculated goodwill impairment in accordance with SFAS No. 142, and we were required to record an additional $1.6 million of goodwill impairment; and (ii) we incorrectly classified $1.4 million relating to accrued property and equipment in investing activities in our consolidated statement of cash flows. Based on these facts, and because of the significance of the financial closing and reporting process, our management, including our chairman of the executive committee and CFO, has concluded that these inadequacies in our internal control over financial reporting constitute a material weakness as of July 2, 2005. Due to the foregoing assessment, management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of the end of the fiscal year to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with GAAP. We reviewed the results of management’s assessment with our audit committee. We are currently reviewing our resources for evaluating and resolving non-routine and/or complex accounting transactions to determine the proper remediation for the material weakness identified. While we believe the primary reason for the material weakness was due to an atypical overload of our accounting and financial staff relating to our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 for the first time, we may conclude to take one or more of the following actions: (a) hire additional qualified employees in our finance and accounting departments that have experience with complex accounting transactions; (b) enhance training relating to GAAP in respect of non-routine and/or complex accounting transactions; (c) adopt more rigorous policies and procedures with respect to goodwill impairment testing and classification of cash flows, and (d) engage a third party specialist to assist the Company’s personnel conducting comprehensive and detailed reviews of non-routine and/or complex accounting transactions. While we intend to take all necessary actions to remediate the material weakness, there remains a risk that the transitional procedures which we may take will not be sufficient. A material failure of internal controls over financial reporting could materially impact our reported financial results and the market price of our stock could significantly decline. Additionally, adverse publicity related to a material failure of internal controls over financial reporting would have a negative impact on our reputation and business. Similarly, in future fiscal periods, if we fail to timely complete this evaluation, or if our auditors cannot timely attest to our evaluation, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny, a loss of public confidence in our financial statements and a negative impact on our business reputation, all of which could have a materially adverse effect our stock price. We depend on key personnel and may not be able to retain these employees or recruit additional qualified personnel, which could harm our business Our success depends to a large extent on the continued service of our executive management team. Departures by our executive officers could have a negative impact on our business, as we may not be able to find suitable management personnel to replace departing executives on a timely basis. We do not maintain key executive life insurance on any of our executive officers. 16 Table of Contents As our business expands, we believe that our future success will depend greatly on our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. Although we generally have been able to meet our staffing requirements in the past, our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling costs is subject to external factors, such as unemployment levels, minimum wage legislation and changing demographics. Our inability to meet our staffing requirements in the future at costs that are favorable to us, or at all, could impair our ability to increase revenue, and our customers could experience lower levels of customer care. We rely on third parties to manage our distribution center and to deliver merchandise to our stores The efficient operation of our stores is dependent on our ability to distribute, in a timely manner, merchandise to our store locations throughout the United States. An independent third party operates our distribution centers. We depend on this third party to receive, sort and distribute a substantial and growing portion of our merchandise. This third party employs personnel represented by a labor union. Although there have been no work stoppages or disruptions since the inception of our relationship with this third party, there can be no assurance that work stoppages or disruptions will not occur in the future. We also use a separate third party transportation company to deliver our merchandise from our distribution centers to our stores. Any failure by either of these third parties to respond adequately to our distribution and transportation needs would disrupt our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial conditions and cash flow. 