Item 1A. Risk Factors The Bank’s focus on multifamily and commercial real estate lending may subject it to greater risk of an adverse impact on operations from a decline in the economy. The majority of loans in the Bank’s portfolio are secured by multifamily residential property. Multifamily loans are generally viewed as exposing lenders to a greater risk of loss than one- to four-family residential loans and typically involve higher loan principal amounts. Although multifamily loans are generally non-recourse, are underwritten based upon the cash flow generated by the collateral property and have loan to value ratios of less than 80%, in a decline in the economy, a borrower experiencing financial difficulties in connection with one income producing property may default on all of its outstanding loans, even if the properties securing the other loans are generating positive cash flow. In addition, large loans tend to expose the Bank to a greater degree of risk due to the potential impact of losses from any one loan or concentration of loans to one borrower relative to the size of the Bank’s capital position. As part of the Company’s strategic plan, it has increased its emphasis on commercial real estate loans over the past six years. Loans secured by commercial real estate are generally larger and involve a greater degree of risk than one- to four-family and multifamily residential mortgage loans. Because payments on loans secured by commercial real estate are often dependent upon successful operation or management of the collateral properties, repayment of such loans is generally subject to a greater extent to prevailing conditions in the real estate market or the economy. Further, the collateral securing such loans may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based upon the success of the business. Multifamily and commercial real estate loans additionally involve a greater risk than one- to four- family residential mortgage loans because economic and real estate conditions, and government regulations such as rent control and rent stabilization laws, which are outside the control of the borrower or the Bank, could impair the value of the security for the loan or the future cash flow of such properties. As a result, rental income might not rise sufficiently over time to satisfy increases in the loan rate at repricing or increases in overhead expenses (i.e., utilities, taxes, etc.). Impaired loans are thus difficult to identify before they become problematic. In addition, if the cash flow from a collateral property is reduced (e.g., if leases are not obtained or renewed), the borrower’s ability to repay the loan and the value of the security for the loan may be impaired. Dependence on economic and real estate conditions and geographic concentration in market area. The Bank gathers deposits primarily from the communities and neighborhoods in close proximity to its branches. The Bank lends primarily in the NYC metropolitan area, although its overall lending area is much larger, and extends approximately 150 miles in each direction from its corporate headquarters in Brooklyn. The majority of the Bank’s mortgage loans are secured by properties located in its primary lending area, approximately 75% of which are located in the NYC boroughs of Brooklyn, Queens and Manhattan. As a result of this geographic concentration, the Bank’s results of operations depend largely upon economic conditions in this area. A deterioration in economic conditions in the NYC metropolitan area could have a material adverse impact upon the quality of the Bank’s loan portfolio and the demand for its products and services, and, accordingly, on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows, business, financial condition and prospects. Conditions in the real estate markets in which the collateral for the Bank’s mortgage loans are located strongly influence the level of the Bank’s non-performing loans and the value of its collateral. Real estate values are affected by, among other items, fluctuations in general or local economic conditions, supply and demand, changes in governmental rules or policies, the availability of loans to potential purchasers and acts of nature. Declines in real estate markets have in the past, and may in the future, negatively impact the Company’s results of operations, cash flows, business, financial condition and prospects. The Bank’s allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level considered adequate by management to absorb losses inherent in its loan portfolio. The amount of inherent loan losses which could be ultimately realized is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, that could be beyond the Bank’s control. Such losses could exceed current estimates. Although management believes that the Bank’s allowance for loan losses is adequate, there can be no assurance that the allowance will be sufficient to satisfy actual loan losses should such losses be realized. Increases in interest rates may reduce the Company’s profitability. The Bank’s primary source of income is its net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on its interest earning assets and the interest expense incurred on its interest bearing liabilities. The one-year interest rate sensitivity gap is the difference between interest rate sensitive assets maturing or repricing within one year and interest rate sensitive liabilities maturing or repricing within one year, expressed as a percentage of total assets. In a rising interest rate environment, an institution with a negative gap would generally be expected, absent the effects of other factors, to experience a greater increase in its cost of liabilities relative to its yield on assets, and thus decrease its net interest income. Based upon historical experience, if interest rates were to rise, the Bank would expect the demand for multifamily loans to decline. Decreased loan origination volume would likely negatively impact the Bank's interest income. In addition, if interest rates were to rise rapidly and result in an economic decline, the Bank would expect its level of non-performing loans to increase. Such an increase in non-performing loans may result in an increase to the allowance for loan losses and possible increased charge-offs, which would negatively impact the Company's net income. Further the actual amount of time before mortgage loans and MBS are repaid can be significantly impacted by changes in mortgage redemption rates and market interest rates. Mortgage prepayment, satisfaction and refinancing rates will vary due to several factors, including the regional economy in the area where the underlying mortgages were originated, seasonal factors, and other demographic variables. However, the most significant factors affecting prepayment, satisfaction and refinancing rates are prevailing interest rates, related mortgage refinancing opportunities and competition. The level of mortgage and MBS prepayment, satisfaction and refinancing activity impacts the Company's earnings due to its effect on fee income earned on prepayment and refinancing activities, along with liquidity levels the Company will experience to fund new investments or ongoing operations. As a federally-chartered savings bank, the Bank is required to monitor changes in its NPV, which is the difference between the estimated market value of its assets and liabilities. In addition, the Bank monitors its NPV ratio, which is the NPV divided by the estimated market value of total assets. The NPV ratio can be viewed as a corollary to the Bank’s capital ratios. To monitor its overall sensitivity to changes in interest rates, the Bank simulates the effect of instantaneous changes in interest rates of up to 200 basis points on its assets and liabilities. Interest rates do and will continue to fluctuate, and the Bank cannot predict future FOMC actions or other factors that will cause interest rates to vary. Risks related to changes in laws, government regulation and monetary policy. The Holding Company and the Bank are subject to extensive supervision, regulation and examination by the OTS, as the Bank's chartering agency, and the FDIC, as its deposit insurer. Such regulation limits the manner in which the Holding Company and the Bank conduct business, undertake new investments and activities and obtain financing. This regulation is designed primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance funds and the Bank’s depositors, and not to benefit the Bank or its creditors. The regulatory structure also provides the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies, including policies with respect to capital levels, the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes. For further information regarding the laws and regulations that affect the Holding Company and the Bank, see "Item 1. Business - Regulation - - Regulation of Federal Savings Associations," and "Item 1. Business - Regulation - Regulation of Holding Company." Financial institution regulation has been the subject of significant legislation in recent years, and may be the subject of further significant legislation in the future, none of which is within the control of the Holding Company or the Bank. Significant new laws or changes in, or repeals of, existing laws may cause the Company's results of operations to differ materially. Further, federal monetary policy, particularly as implemented through the OTS, significantly affects credit conditions for the Company, primarily through open market operations in United States government securities, the discount rate for bank borrowings and reserve requirements for liquid assets. A material change in any of these conditions would have a material impact on the Bank, and therefore, on the Company’s results of operations. Competition from other financial institutions in originating loans and attracting deposits may adversely affect profitability. The Bank's retail banking and a significant portion of its lending business are concentrated in the NYC metropolitan area. The NYC banking environment is extremely competitive. The Bank’s competition for loans exists principally from savings banks, commercial banks, mortgage banks and insurance companies. The Bank has faced sustained competition for the origination of multifamily residential and commercial real estate loans. Management anticipates that the current level of competition for multifamily residential and commercial real estate loans will continue for the foreseeable future, and this competition may inhibit the Bank’s ability to maintain its current level and pricing of such loans. The Bank gathers deposits in direct competition with commercial banks, savings banks and brokerage firms, many among the largest in the nation. In addition, it must also compete for deposit monies against the stock markets and mutual funds, especially during periods of strong performance in the equity markets. Over the previous decade, consolidation in the financial services industry, coupled with the emergence of Internet banking, has altered the deposit gathering landscape and may increase competitive pressures on the Bank. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 