Item 1A. Risk Factors Cautionary Statements Regarding Future Results, Forward-Looking Statements and Other Important Factors Throughout this report we make statements regarding our business, expectations and prospects, such as projections of future performance, statements of our plans and objectives, forecasts of market trends, and other matters that are "forward-looking statements" as defined in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, (the "Securities Act") and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). Statements containing words or phrases such as "will likely result," "are expected to," "will continue," "is anticipated," "estimates," "projects," "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "target," "goal," "plans," "objective," "might," "may," "could," "will," "should," or similar expressions, or the negative thereof, constitute forward-looking statements. Although we believe that our plans, objectives and expectations reflected in, or suggested by, such forward-looking statements are reasonable at the present time, we might not achieve them or we may modify them from time to time. You should read this report thoroughly and with the understanding that actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. We do not plan to update forward-looking statements even though our situation or plans may change in the future, unless applicable law requires us to do so. In addition to other matters identified or described by us from time to time in this report or in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), there are several important factors that could cause our future results to differ materially from historical results or trends, results anticipated or planned, or results that are reflected from time to time in any forward-looking statement that may be made by us or on our behalf. Some of these important factors, but not necessarily all important factors, include the following: Current Economic Recession Will Likely Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations Our business is vulnerable to downturns in national and local economic conditions, including, without limitation, downturns in the economy related to threatened or actual terrorist attacks; pandemic outbreaks or similar widespread health epidemics; natural disasters; tightening of available credit; increasing government regulation, spending and taxes; increasing energy costs; increasing interest rates; declining consumer confidence; and declines in the stock market. The demand for entertainment and leisure activities tends to be highly sensitive to consumers' disposable incomes, and thus a decline in general economic conditions or an increase in transportation or other costs will likely lead to our customers having less discretionary income with which to travel to Nevada and wager. We face the risk that the effects of higher unemployment rates, higher transportation costs, foreclosures and continued pressure on housing prices, as well as business failures and stock market volatility will place added strain on consumers' ability to make purchases, repay their loans and thus, leave less funds available for travel and leisure activities. Consumer demand for gambling, due to decreased disposable income, has declined and could continue to decline as a result of the current economic recession. We have also experienced a change in gambling patterns of our patrons, including a trend towards more conservative bets, which tend to be less profitable to the Company. Additionally, our current casino customers who purchase equipment and wagering software have experienced a decline in growth and financial 10 Table of Contents performance, which will likely lead to a decrease in maintenance revenues and installation revenues. In addition, because Sturgeon's Hotel and Casino is heavily dependent on the drive-through market, especially travelers on Interstate 80, the foregoing factors have and could continue to have an adverse affect on our business. Accordingly, if the economic recession continues, it will likely continue to hurt our financial performance. Liquidity—If we are Unable to Raise Additional Capital in the Near Term, we may be Unable to Satisfy our Obligations as they Become Due At January 31, 2009, we had approximately $3.4 million in cash and equivalents, a majority of which cash is held to fund winning tickets and future bets. Based upon our anticipated operations, we believe that cash on hand and operating cash flows will be adequate to meet our anticipated working capital requirements, capital expenditures, and scheduled payments for indebtedness for the remainder of fiscal 2010. No assurance can be given however, that our cash flow will be sufficient, that our estimates for anticipated operational cash needs will be accurate, that new business development or unforeseen events will occur, that the outcome of litigation will be positive, resulting in the need to raise additional funds sooner, or that we will be able to raise additional funds. We anticipate that we may require additional funds to meet our cash requirements sometime in fiscal 2010. To raise capital, we may seek to sell additional securities, issue debt or convertible securities, obtain additional credit facilities through financial institutions or third parties, or sell assets of the Company. No assurance can be given, however, that we will be able to raise any additional capital or that such capital will be available to us on acceptable terms. Given the current financial market disruption, credit crisis and state of the economy, including the current recession, it may be particularly difficult at this time to raise any capital on acceptable terms. In the event we cannot raise additional capital or operations continue to decline, we may be unable to satisfy our obligations as they become due. Risk of Loss due to Racusin Litigation The Company and Racusin entered into the Settlement Agreement on September 3, 2004. On or about March 11, 2005, the Company consummated its Plan of Reorganization and emerged from Bankruptcy. On or about July 27, 2005, the Bankruptcy Court approved an Interpleader Order, whereby pursuant to the Settlement Agreement, the Company agreed to place 250,000 shares of common stock with the clerk of the court as payment of the Racusin Claim while Racusin pursued its appeal of the Bankruptcy Appellate Panel's decision in our favor to the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals. The Interpleader Order further stated that the Company's stock would be substituted with cash payment in the event that the 9th Circuit reverses the Bankruptcy Appellate Panel. The Company filed a Form 8-K on July 6, 2007, in response to the 9th Circuit's reversal of the Bankruptcy Appellate Panel. On November 2, 2007, the Bankruptcy Court heard an argument to determine whether the Company could withdraw its 250,000 shares of common stock and whether it could begin depositing funds pursuant to the Settlement Agreement attached to the Company's motion (the "Revised Payment Schedule"). Accordingly, we previously estimated post-judgment interest at 8% per annum, compounded, from March 11, 2005, without taking into consideration the Interpleader Order of July 27, 2005, which was still in effect. That is, by calculating post-judgment interest during the same time that our stock was held by the Court pursuant to the Settlement Agreement, we previously accrued interest over a period of time for which interest should not be accrued because we were in compliance with the terms of the Settlement Agreement pursuant to the Interpleader Order. The extra estimated interest accrued pursuant to the Racusin claim was $394,021, which was taken as an offset to the litigation expense in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. The adjustment was recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 pursuant to the fourth quarter legal actions described below. The Company filed its Corrected Amortization Schedule on March 17, 2008 ("Corrected Amortization Schedule"). The Company received a letter from Racusin stating that he considered our 11 Table of Contents filing of the Corrected Amortization Schedule to be a breach of the Settlement Agreement on April 2, 2008. On October 10, 2008, Racusin moved the Court to file supplemental pleadings, and that motion was granted on December 23, 2008. Racusin filed his Adversarial Counterclaim for Breach of the Settlement Agreement on January 14, 2009. We filed our Answer on January 29, 2009. Racusin filed his Motion for Summary Judgment on breach of the Settlement Agreement on February 24, 2009. We filed our Opposition to the Motion for Summary Judgment on March 16, 2009. Racusin filed his Reply to our Opposition on March 30, 2009. The hearing on the Motion for Summary Judgment is scheduled for May 8, 2009. Though we believe the legal analysis for our position is meritorious, there can be no assurance that the Company will prevail in this matter. Regulation Regarding Reserves Nevada Gaming Commission Regulation 22.040 ("Regulation 22.040") requires us to maintain reserves (cash, surety bonds, irrevocable standby letter of credit, etc.) sufficient to cover any outstanding wagering liability including unpaid winning tickets, future tickets and telephone account deposits. Since November 16, 2007, we have maintained a Regulation 22.040 reserve in the amount of $3.4 million in the form of a surety bond issued by Fidelity and Deposit Company of Maryland (a subsidiary of Zurich American Insurance) ("Fidelity") secured by $1.2 million in cash deposits. The cash deposits, in the form of two certificates of deposit, are held at Great Basin Bank of Nevada (now Nevada State Bank) along with an irrevocable letter of credit, also with Great Basin Bank of Nevada (now Nevada State Bank). On February 22, 2008, the bond amount was decreased to $2.8 million, due to decreased handle, and still secured by $1.2 million in deposits. In March 2009, the Company was notified that Fidelity will cancel its surety bond effective May 8, 2009. While we are searching for a replacement bond company, we have been unable to secure a replacement bond with acceptable terms at this time. Therefore, the Company formalized a request to the Nevada Gaming Commission, requesting a lower reserve amount of $1.2 million with an additional $600,000 float, which was granted in April 2009. This makes our reserve amount $1.8 million until August 15, 2009, which is collateralized by the $1.2 million in certificates of deposit held at Great Basin Bank (now Nevada State Bank). We believe that such amount will provide an adequate reserve until football season, at which time; we may need to increase the reserve amount. If the Company is unable to locate an alternate bond with acceptable terms or if we are required to increase the Regulation 22.040 reserve and are unable to do so, it would have an adverse impact on us including, but not limited to, requiring a significant reduction in the number of race/sports locations operated by Leroy's, and/or an elimination or reduction of telephone wagering accounts, resulting in an adverse change in our operating results. We Have Had a History of Significant Losses and We May Incur Additional Losses in the Future For the fiscal years ended January 31, 2009 and 2008, we have incurred net losses of $1.0 million and $0.8 million, respectively. From our inception of revenue producing operations through the current fiscal year, we have incurred an accumulated deficit of $13.0 million. For the fiscal years ended 2001 though 2009, the Company recorded net income for five of those years and net losses for four of those nine years. While we have implemented strategies to improve future operations including, but not limited to the following: increasing financial analysis and focusing on cost reductions; eliminating unprofitable sports book locations; investing in newer, more profitable sports book locations; investing in additional research and development aimed at new markets and technologies; and settling litigation matters; there is no assurance that such strategies will be successful. Higher than expected administrative, research and development, and/or distribution costs, could also negatively impact our financial results. The timing of the sales of equipment compared to the timing of expenses incurred may also negatively affect our financial results. Changes in our business systems, competition, or technologies affecting our products could also negatively impact our financial results. In order for us to 12 Table of Contents again achieve profitability, we need to generate and sustain additional revenues while maintaining reasonable cost and expense levels. We Are Subject to Potential Fluctuations in Results Our quarterly results have fluctuated primarily due to outside factors such as professional and college sports seasons and timing of sales and installations for CBS equipment. All of the Company's wagering revenue comes from its Nevada race and sports books and more than one-fourth of that is derived from professional football events. If the professional football season were to be interrupted, this could have significant adverse impact on future operations. Management also estimates that a significant amount of the Company's Nevada non-casino wagering relates to college sports and, therefore, the passage of amateur sports anti-wagering legislation could have a material adverse impact upon future operations. In addition, because the Company generates substantial revenue from system sales and maintenance to a relatively small population of potential customers, a decline in the size, demand or number of these contracts could also adversely affect future operations. Thus, the results of any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any other interim period. In addition, we take risks by accepting wagers on the outcome of various sporting events. Fluctuations in the levels of the amounts wagered during particular times of the year and the win percentage of the wagers contribute to variations in financial results. While we have instituted measures to lessen the risk, there is no assurance that we will be able to win more of the wagers than we lose. In addition, our inability to manage the timing of the release of new products and installations can cause fluctuations in results. We Are Subject to Intense Competition There is intense competition among companies in the gaming industry, along with dynamic customer demand and rapid technological advances; and most of our competitors have significantly greater financial, marketing, technical and other resources than we do. Significant competition that we encounter may have a materially adverse effect on us. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. The state of Delaware is in the process of legalizing sports wagering. The state of New Jersey is suing the federal government for the right to also accept sports wagering. These potential new sports wagering jurisdictions and expanded internet sports wagering could potentially reduce the amount of wagers placed in Nevada. However, this expansion could also represent expansion opportunities for our Company, but there can be no assurance that this will create a positive impact on our financial position. Demand for Our Products and Services is Subject to Continued Acceptance of our Products and Services We believe our ability to increase revenues, cash flow, and to become profitable will depend, in part, upon continued market acceptance of our products and services. There can be no assurance that the market acceptance of our products and services will continue. Changes in market conditions in the gaming industry, the general and gaming industry economic conditions, and the financial condition of host locations or patrons could limit or diminish market acceptance of these products and services. We Are Subject to Strict Regulation by Gaming Authorities The ownership and operation of gaming licenses in Nevada are subject to strict regulation under various state, county and municipal laws. In particular, the Leroy's, AWIM, AWIG and Sturgeon's subsidiaries are licensed by the Nevada Gaming Commission and are subject to extensive regulation. Together with key personnel, we undergo extensive investigation before each new gaming license is 13 Table of Contents issued, and the products of CBS and AWIM are subjected to testing and evaluation prior to approval and use. Generally, gaming authorities have broad discretion when granting, renewing or revoking these approvals and licenses. If we fail or any of our key personnel fail to obtain or retain a required license or approval, it would decrease our share in the marketplace and put us at a disadvantage with our competitors. Consequently, the market price of our common stock may suffer. Expansion of our activities could be hindered by delays in obtaining requisite state licenses or the inability to obtain such licenses. No assurance can be given as to the term for which our licenses will be renewed in a particular jurisdiction or as to what license conditions, if any, may be imposed by such jurisdiction in connection with any future renewals. We cannot predict the effects that adoption of and changes in gaming laws, rules and regulations might have on our future operations. The Gaming Industry may be Adversely Affected by Federal Legislation and Tax Laws The U.S. Congress passed UIGEA in late 2006, which prohibits any person engaged in the business of betting or wagering from knowingly accepting payments related to unlawful bets or wagers transmitted over the Internet. UIGEA prohibits financial institutions and other payment processors from processing online gaming-related financial transactions. It also expressly requires Internet bets and wagers to comply with the law of the jurisdiction where the wagers are initiated and received. In addition, the U.S. Congress has proposed several bills that would prohibit any person from accepting wagers on amateur sporting events including high school, college and Olympic events. Pursuant to the Sports Protection Act, which became effective January 1, 1993, the proliferation of legalized sports books and wagering was significantly curtailed. The Sports Protection Act effectively outlawed sports betting nationwide, excluding Nevada and sports lotteries in Oregon and Delaware. Thus, sports books and wagering are permitted to continue to operate in Nevada, provided the wager originates in Nevada and is received by a licensed sports book in Nevada. Moreover, the Interstate Wire Act also prohibits those in the business of betting and wagering from utilizing a wire communication facility for the transmission in interstate or foreign commerce of any bets, wagers or information assisting in the placing of such bets and wagers on any sporting event or contest unless such betting or wagering activity is specifically authorized in each jurisdiction involved. There is no guarantee that the U.S. Congress will not pass a bill which would adversely affect our operations. Additionally, federal and state tax legislation matters, including changes to current law, or new assessments by taxing authorities could also negatively impact our results of operations or financial position. An Adverse Change Affecting the Gaming Industry, Such as a Change in Gaming Regulations or a Decrease in the Rate of Growth and Popularity of Casino Gaming, Particularly Those Casinos with Race and Sports Wagering, Will Negatively Impact Our Profitability and Our Potential for Growth Our ability to grow and operate profitably is substantially dependent upon the expansion of the Nevada gaming industry and other factors that are beyond our control. These factors include, among others, the pace of development and expansion, changes in gaming regulations, the continued popularity of casino gaming, particularly those casinos with race and sports wagering, as a leisure activity, etc. An adverse change in any of these economic, political, legal or other factors may negatively impact our results of operations. Additionally, consolidation of existing gaming operations could negatively impact our pricing structure and revenue. Due to the economic recession, the number of visitors to Las Vegas declined 4.4% for the year ended December 31, 2008, and gaming revenues fell in fiscal 2008 compared with 2007. Daily drive-in traffic also declined 5.3% for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared with 2007, according to the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority. 14 Table of Contents Staffing Reductions and Internal Controls—Due to our Staff Reductions and reduced Hours Worked, Particularly in the Accounting Department, we may Experience Deficiencies in Disclosure Controls and Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting, Leading to a Material Weakness and Non-Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Subsequent to October 31, 2008, we have reduced staffing hours worked in the accounting and revenue auditing areas and may have additional layoffs in the future. The lack of sufficient staffing may cause existing controls to erode, possibly leading to a deficiency in disclosure controls and internal controls over financial reporting. While every effort will be made to monitor and retain these controls, there can be no assurance that we will have effective internal controls over financial reporting. We Are Largely Dependent on Current Management Our success is largely dependent on the efforts of Victor Salerno, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer. Although we maintain a "key person" life insurance policy and have an employment agreement with Mr. Salerno, the loss of Mr. Salerno's services could have a materially adverse effect on our business. Changes in the remainder of key management, or other key personnel or their compensation also contribute to this risk factor. Future Revenue Growth Depends on Our Ability to Improve the Effectiveness and Breadth of Our Sales Organization In order to achieve our goals for growth, and increase market awareness and sales, particularly with the AWIG and AWIM subsidiaries, we need to improve the effectiveness and breadth of our sales operations. Our gaming products require sophisticated sales efforts targeted at selected people within the gaming industry. Also, our ability to develop and refine products and technologies in a timely manner that have market acceptance, through effective marketing techniques is essential for financial success. Competition for qualified sales personnel is intense, and we may not be able to hire the kind and number of sales personnel required. In addition, we will need to effectively train and educate the sales force in order to be successful in selling into the market. We rely upon certain strategic relationships with our customers and our vendors. If we are unable to maintain these relationships or create new relationships, our results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. We Have the Authority to Issue Additional Equity Securities, Which Would Lead to Dilution of Our Issued and Outstanding Common Stock The issuance of additional equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities would result in dilution of our existing stockholders' equity interests in us. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue, without vote or action of stockholders, preferred stock in one or more series, and has the ability to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of any such series. We currently have Redeemable Series A Preferred Stock outstanding, of which 3,238 shares, representing $323,800, are subject to redemption at any time, without prior approval from the Board of Directors. Any redemption of the remainder of the preferred stock is subject to prior approval from the Board of Directors. Any such series of preferred stock could contain dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption, redemption prices, liquidation preferences or other rights superior to the rights of holders of our common stock. If we issue convertible preferred stock, a subsequent conversion may dilute the current common stockholders' interest. In addition, as of January 31, 2009, we were authorized to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 16,870,121 shares of common stock. Of that amount, 579,300 shares of our common stock were reserved for issuance upon the exercise of vested options. 15 Table of Contents We May Not be Able to Protect Our Proprietary Rights and May Incur Significant Costs Attempting to do So Our success and ability to compete are dependent to a significant degree on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, as well as confidentiality and licensing agreements to protect these proprietary rights. However, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our software or other proprietary information without authorization or to develop similar software independently. In addition, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Such litigation, whether successful or not, could result in substantial costs and diversions of resources, either of which could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition or operating results. The Market for Our Common Stock is Limited Our common stock is thinly-traded and any recently reported sales price may not be a true market-based valuation of our common stock. There can be no assurance that an active market for our common stock will develop. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to operating performance. Our Common Stock is Considered a "Penny Stock" and, as such, the Market for Our Common Stock May be Further Limited by Certain SEC Rules As long as the price of our common stock remains below $5.00 per share, the stock is likely to be subject to certain "penny stock" rules promulgated by the SEC. Those rules impose certain sales practice requirements on brokers who sell penny stock to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (as defined in Rule 501(a) of Regulation D promulgated under the Securities Act). For transactions covered by the penny stock rules, the broker must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written consent to the transaction prior to the sale. Furthermore, the penny stock rules generally require, among other things, that brokers engaged in secondary trading of penny stocks provide customers with written disclosure documents, monthly statements of the market value of penny stocks, disclosure of the bid and ask prices, disclosure of the compensation to the brokerage firm, and disclosure of the sales person working for the brokerage firm. These rules and regulations adversely affect the ability of brokers to sell our common stock and limit the liquidity of our securities. The Trading Price of Our Common Stock is Volatile and Could Decline Substantially The trading price of our common stock is volatile and is likely to continue to be volatile. Our stock price could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of issues, including broad market factors that may have a material adverse impact on our stock price, regardless of our actual performance. The factors include, but are not limited to, the following: •Periodic variations in the actual or anticipated financial results of our business or that of our competitors; •Downward revisions in estimates of our future operating results or of the future operating results of our competitors; •Material announcements by us or our competitors; •Uncertainty as to the continued quotation of our stock on the OTC Bulletin Board ("OTCBB"); and 16 Table of Contents •Adverse changes in general market conditions or economic trends or in conditions or trends in the market in which we operate. We do not Intend to Pay Cash Dividends. As a Result, Stockholders will Benefit from an Investment in Our Common Stock Only if it Appreciates in Value We have never paid a cash dividend on our common stock, and we do not plan to pay any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to finance our operations and further expand and grow our business, including growth through acquisitions. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in its value. We cannot assure you that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which stockholders have purchased their shares. We May Not Receive an Unqualified Opinion From Our Auditors With Respect to the Assessment of Our Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting That is Required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Of 2002, and We Will Incur Additional Costs in That Process We believe that effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports. We have and will continue to incur a substantial amount of management time and resources and significant expenses in order to comply with laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In particular, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management's annual review and evaluation of our internal control systems. Under current temporary rules, commencing with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010 and thereafter, attestations as to the effectiveness of these systems by our registered independent public accounting firm will be required. We have and will continue to incur significant increased costs in implementing and responding to these requirements due to the complexities of Section 404 that require significant documentation, testing and, if necessary, remediation. Our process of reviewing, documenting and testing our internal controls over financial reporting may cause a significant strain on our management, diverting them from their daily business focus and strain on our information systems and other resources. We likely will be required to hire additional temporary or part-time personnel and to use outside legal, accounting and advisory services and software to assist us in compliance efforts. In addition, we will incur additional fees from our auditors as they perform the added review work necessary for them to provide their attestation. Even with those expenditures, we may not be able to successfully complete our assessment or we may not be able to obtain an unqualified attestation report on such assessment. Further, we or our auditors may identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting. Additionally, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 17 Table of Contents Litigation May Subject Us to Significant Expenses and Liability From time to time in the course of our business, we may be subject to litigation claims or other legal disputes, which may not be covered under our insurance policies or as to which our insurance carriers may seek to deny coverage. Consequently, due to actions from third parties, we might incur adverse judgments, costly settlements or significant legal fees, any or all of which might have a material adverse effect on us. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not required. 