RISK FACTORS Investors should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently believe to be less significant than the following risk factors, may also adversely affect our business and operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our Business Our business is highly seasonal, and our financial performance depends on the results of the fourth quarter of each fiscal year and, as a result, our operating results could be materially adversely affected if we achieve less than satisfactory sales prior to or during the holiday season. Our business is highly seasonal. During fiscals 2010, 2009 and 2008 approximately 43%, 43% and 40%, respectively, of our total Net sales were generated in the fourth quarter. It is typically the case that we incur net losses in each of the first three quarters of the year, with a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations being generated in the fourth quarter. As a result, we depend significantly upon the fourth quarter holiday selling season. If we achieve less than satisfactory sales, operating earnings or cash flows from operating activities during the fourth quarter, we may not be able to compensate sufficiently for the lower sales, operating earnings or cash flows from operating activities during the first three quarters of the fiscal year. Our results in any given period may be affected by dates on which important holidays fall and the shopping patterns relating to those holidays. Additionally, the concentrated nature of our seasonal sales means that the Company’s operating results could be materially adversely affected by natural disasters and labor strikes, work stoppages, terrorist acts or disruptive global political events, prior to or during the holiday season, as described below. Our industry is highly competitive and competitive conditions may adversely affect our revenues and overall profitability. The retail industry is highly and increasingly competitive and our results of operations are sensitive to, and may be adversely affected by, competitive pricing, promotional pressures, additional competitor store openings and other factors. As a specialty retailer that primarily focuses on toys and juvenile products we compete with discount and mass merchandisers, such as Wal-Mart and Target, electronics retailers, national and regional specialty chains, as well as local retailers in the geographic areas we serve. We also compete with national and local discount stores, department stores, supermarkets and warehouse clubs, as well as Internet and catalog businesses. We may be vulnerable to the special competitive pressures from the growing e-commerce activity in the market, both as they may impact our own e-commerce business, and as they may impact the operating results and investment values of our existing physical stores. Competition is principally based on product variety, quality, availability, price, convenience or store location, advertising and promotion, customer support and service. We believe that some of our competitors in the toys market and juvenile products market, as well as in the other markets in which we compete, have a larger market share than our market share. In addition, some of our competitors have greater financial resources, lower merchandise acquisition costs and lower operating expenses than we do. Much of the merchandise we sell is also available from various retailers at competitive prices. Discount and mass merchandisers use aggressive pricing policies and enlarged toy-selling areas during the holiday season to increase sales and build traffic for other store departments. Our business is vulnerable to shifts in demand and pricing, as well as consumer preferences. Competition in the video game market has increased in recent years as mass merchandisers have expanded their offerings in this market, and as alternative sales channels (such as the Internet) have grown in importance. The baby registry market is highly competitive, with competition based on convenience, quality and selection of merchandise offerings and functionality. Our baby registry primarily competes with the baby registries of mass merchandisers and other specialty format and regional retailers. Some of our competitors have been aggressively advertising and marketing their baby registries through national television and magazine campaigns. Within the past few years, the number of multiple registries and on-line registries has steadily increased. These trends present consumers with more choices for their baby registry needs, and as a result, increase competition for our baby registry. If we fail to compete successfully, we could face lower sales and may decide or be compelled to offer greater discounts to our customers, which could result in decreased profitability. Our sales may be adversely affected by changes in economic factors and changes in consumer spending patterns. Many economic and other factors outside our control, including consumer confidence, consumer spending levels, employment levels, consumer debt levels, inflation and deflation, as well as the availability of consumer credit, affect consumer spending habits. A significant deterioration in the global financial markets and economic environment, recessions or an uncertain economic outlook adversely affects consumer spending habits and results in lower levels of economic activity. The domestic and international political situation, including the economic health of various political jurisdictions, also affects economic conditions and consumer confidence. Any of these events and factors could cause consumers to curtail spending and could have a negative impact on our financial performance and position in future fiscal periods. 9 Table of Contents Our operations have significant liquidity and capital requirements and depend on the availability of adequate financing on reasonable terms. If our lenders are unable to fund borrowings under their credit commitments or we are unable to borrow, it could have a significant negative effect on our business. We have significant liquidity and capital requirements. Among other things, the seasonality of our businesses requires us to purchase merchandise well in advance of the fourth quarter holiday selling season. We depend on our ability to generate cash flows from operating activities, as well as on borrowings under our revolving credit facilities and our credit lines, to finance the carrying costs of this inventory and to pay for capital expenditures and operating expenses. As of January 29, 2011, we had outstanding borrowings of $17 million under the Toys “R” Us – Japan, Ltd. (“Toys – Japan”) unsecured credit lines and no outstanding borrowings under the $1.85 billion secured revolving credit facility (“ABL Facility”) and the European and Australian asset-based revolving credit facility (the “European ABL”). For fiscal 2010, peak borrowings under our various credit lines were $793 million as we purchased merchandise for the fourth quarter holiday selling season. If our lenders are unable to fund borrowings under their credit commitments or we are unable to borrow, it could have a significant negative effect on our business. In addition, any adverse change to our credit ratings could negatively impact our ability to refinance our debt on satisfactory terms and could have the effect of increasing our financing costs. While we believe we currently have adequate sources of funds to provide for our ongoing operations and capital requirements for the next 12 months, any inability on our part to have future access to financing, when needed, would have a negative effect on our business. A loss of, or reduction in, trade credit from our vendors could reduce our liquidity, increase our working capital needs and/or limit our ability to purchase products. Trade credit from our vendors is an important source of financing for the acquisition of the inventory we sell in our stores. Accordingly, the loss of, or reduction in, trade credit could have a significant adverse impact on our inventory levels and operating cash flow and negatively impact our liquidity. Our vendors may seek credit insurance to protect against non-payment of amounts due to them. If credit insurance is not available to vendors at reasonable terms or at all, vendors may demand accelerated payment of amounts due to them or require advance payments or letters of credit before goods are shipped to us. Any adverse changes in our trade credit for these or other reasons could increase the costs to us of financing our inventory or negatively impact our ability to deliver products to our customers, which could in turn negatively affect our financial performance. We may not retain or attract customers if we fail to successfully implement our strategic initiatives, which could result in lower sales and a failure to realize the benefit of the expenditures incurred for these initiatives. We continue to implement a series of customer-oriented strategic programs designed to differentiate and strengthen our core merchandise content and service levels and to expand and enhance our merchandise offerings. We seek to improve the effectiveness of our marketing and advertising programs for our “R” Us stores and on-line business. The success of these and other initiatives will depend on various factors, including the implementation of our growth strategy, the appeal of our store formats, our ability to offer new products to customers, our financial condition, our ability to respond to changing consumer preferences and competitive and economic conditions. We continuously endeavor to minimize our operating expenses, without adversely affecting the profitability of the business. If we fail to implement successfully some or all of our strategic initiatives, we may be unable to retain or attract customers, which could result in lower sales and a failure to realize the benefit of the expenditures incurred for these initiatives. If we cannot implement our juvenile integration strategy or open new stores, our future growth will be adversely affected. Our growth is dependent on both increases in sales in existing stores and the ability to successfully implement our juvenile integration strategy and open profitable new stores. Increases in sales in existing stores are dependent on factors such as competition, merchandise selection, store operations and other factors discussed in these Risk Factors. Our ability to successfully implement our juvenile integration strategy in a timely and cost effective manner or open new stores and expand into additional market areas depends in part on the following factors, which are in part beyond our control: • the availability of attractive store locations and the ability to accurately assess the demographic or retail environment and customer demand at a given location; • the ability to negotiate favorable lease terms and obtain the necessary permits and zoning approvals; • the absence of occupancy delays; • the ability to construct, furnish and supply a store in a timely and cost effective manner; • the ability to hire and train new personnel, especially store managers, in a cost effective manner; • costs of integration, which may be higher than anticipated; • general economic conditions; and • the availability of sufficient funds for the expansion. 10 Table of Contents Delays or failures in successfully implementing our juvenile integration strategy and opening new stores, or achieving lower than expected sales in integrated or new stores, or drawing a greater than expected proportion of sales in integrated or new stores from existing stores, could materially adversely affect our growth and/or profitability. In addition, we may not be able to anticipate all of the challenges imposed by the expansion of our operations and, as a result, may not meet our targets for integrating, opening new stores or relocating stores or expanding profitably. Some of our new stores may be located in areas where we have little or no meaningful experience. Those markets may have different market conditions, consumer preferences and discretionary spending patterns than our existing markets, which may cause our new stores to be less successful than stores in our existing markets. Other new stores may be located in areas where we have existing stores. Although we have experience in these markets, increasing the number of locations may result in unanticipated over-saturation of markets and temporarily or permanently divert customers and sales from our existing stores, thereby adversely affecting our overall financial performance. Our sales may be adversely affected if we fail to respond to changes in consumer preferences in a timely manner. Our financial performance depends on our ability to identify, originate and define product trends, as well as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer preferences in a timely manner. Our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to change. Our business fluctuates according to changes in consumer preferences dictated in part by fashion trends, perceived value and season. These fluctuations affect the merchandise in stock since purchase orders are written well in advance of the holiday season and, at times, before fashion trends and high-demand brands are evidenced by consumer purchases. If we overestimate the market for our products, we may be faced with significant excess inventories, which could result in increased expenses and reduced margins associated with having to liquidate obsolete inventory at lower prices. Conversely, if we underestimate the market for our products, we will miss opportunities for increased sales and profits, which would place us at a competitive disadvantage. Sales of video games and video game systems tend to be cyclical, which may result in fluctuations in our results of operations, and may be adversely affected if products are sold through alternative channels. Sales of video games and video game systems, which have accounted for 9%, 11% and 14% of our annual net sales for fiscals 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, have been cyclical in nature in response to the introduction and maturation of new technology. Following the introduction of new video game systems, sales of these systems and related software and accessories generally increase due to initial demand, while sales of older systems and related products generally decrease. Moreover, competition within the video game market has increased in recent years and, due to the large size of this product category, fluctuations in this market could have a material adverse impact on our sales and profits trends. Additionally, if video game system manufacturers fail to develop new hardware systems, or if new video products are sold in channels other than traditional retail stores, including through direct online distribution to customers, our sales of video game products could decline, which would negatively impact our financial performance. The success and expansion of our on-line business depends on our ability to provide quality service to our Internet customers and if we are not able to provide such services, our future growth will be adversely affected. Our Internet operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties which are beyond our control, including the following: • changes in consumer willingness to purchase goods via the Internet; • increases in software filters that may inhibit our ability to market our products through e-mail messages to our customers and increases in consumer privacy concerns relating to the Internet; • changes in technology; • changes in applicable federal and state regulation, such as the Federal Trade Commission Act, the Children’s Online Privacy Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act and the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and similar types of international laws; • breaches of Internet security; • failure of our Internet service providers to perform their services properly and in a timely and efficient manner; • failures in our Internet infrastructure or the failure of systems or third parties, such as telephone or electric power service, resulting in website downtime or other problems; • failure by us to process on-line customer orders properly and on time, which may negatively impact future on-line and in-store purchases by such customers; and • failure by our service provider to provide warehousing and fulfillment services, which may negatively impact future on-line and in 11 Table of Contents store purchases by customers. If we are not able to provide satisfactory service to our Internet customers, our future growth will be adversely affected. Further, we may be vulnerable to the special competitive pressures from the growing e-commerce activity in our market, both as they may impact our own e-commerce business, and as they may impact the operating results and investment values of our existing physical stores. We depend on key vendors to supply the merchandise that we sell to our customers and our vendors’ failure to supply quality merchandise in a timely manner may damage our reputation and brands and harm our business. Our performance depends, in part, on our ability to purchase our merchandise in sufficient quantities at competitive prices. We purchase our merchandise from numerous international and domestic manufacturers and importers. We have no contractual assurances of continued supply, pricing or access to new products, and any vendor could change the terms upon which they sell to us or discontinue selling to us at any time. We may not be able to acquire desired merchandise in sufficient quantities on terms acceptable to us in the future. Better than expected sales demand may also lead to customer backorders and lower in-stock positions of our merchandise. As of fiscal 2010, we had approximately 3,500 active vendor relationships through which we procure the merchandise that we offer to our guests. For fiscal 2010, our top 20 vendors worldwide, based on our purchase volume in U.S. dollars, represented approximately 40% of the total products we purchased. An inability to acquire suitable merchandise on acceptable terms or the loss of one or more key vendors could have a negative effect on our business and operating results and could cause us to miss products that we feel are important to our assortment. We may not be able to develop relationships with new vendors, and products from alternative sources, if any, may be of a lesser quality and/or more expensive than those from existing vendors. In addition, our vendors are subject to various risks, including raw material costs, inflation, labor disputes, union organizing activities, financial liquidity, product merchantability, inclement weather, natural disasters and general economic and political conditions that could limit our vendors’ ability to provide us with quality merchandise on a timely basis and at prices and payment terms that are commercially acceptable. For these or other reasons, one or more of our vendors might not adhere to our quality control standards, and we might not identify the deficiency before merchandise ships to our stores or customers. In addition, our vendors may have difficulty adjusting to our changing demands and growing business. Our vendors’ failure to manufacture or import quality merchandise in a timely and effective manner could damage our reputation and brands, and could lead to an increase in customer litigation against us and an attendant increase in our routine and non-routine litigation costs. Further, any merchandise that does not meet our quality standards could become subject to a recall, which could damage our reputation and brands and harm our business. If our vendors fail to provide promotional support consistent with past levels, our sales, earnings and cash flow could be adversely affected. Our vendors typically provide us with promotional support for the sale of their products in our store and on our website. We also receive allowances for volume-related purchases. As part of this support, we receive allowances, payments and credits from the vendors which reduces our cost of goods sold, supports the promotion and merchandising of the products we sell and drives sales at our stores and on our website. We cannot assure you that vendors will continue to provide this support consistent with past levels. If our vendors fail to do so, our sales, earnings and cash flow could be adversely affected. The decrease of birth rates in countries where we operate could negatively affect our business. Most of our end-customers are newborns and children and, as a result, our revenues are dependent on the birth rates in countries where we operate. In recent years, many countries have experienced a sharp drop in birth rates as their population ages and education and income levels increase. A continued and significant decline in the number of newborns and children in these countries could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. If current store locations become unattractive, and attractive new locations are not available for a reasonable price, our ability to implement our growth strategy will be adversely affected. The success of any store depends in substantial part on its location. There can be no assurance that current locations will continue to be attractive as demographic patterns change. Neighborhood or economic conditions where stores are located could decline in the future, resulting in potentially reduced sales in these locations. If we cannot obtain desirable locations at reasonable prices, our ability to implement our growth strategy will be adversely affected. We have substantial obligations under long-term leases that could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. As of January 29, 2011, we leased 1,023 of our properties from third-parties pursuant to long-term space and ground leases. Total rent expense, net of sublease income, was $570 million, $519 million and $503 million for fiscals 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and is expected to be approximately $566 million for fiscal 2011. Many of our leases provide for scheduled increases in rent. The substantial obligations under our leases could further exacerbate the risks described below under “Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our 12 Table of Contents industries, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations under our various debt instruments and/or our other obligations.” If we are unable to renew or replace our current store leases or if we are unable to enter into leases for additional stores on favorable terms, or if one or more of our current leases are terminated prior to expiration of their stated term and we cannot find suitable alternate locations, our growth and profitability could be negatively impacted. We currently have ground and store leasehold interests in approximately 73% of our domestic and international store locations. Most of our current leases provide for our unilateral option to renew for several additional rental periods at specific rental rates. Our ability to re-negotiate favorable terms on an expiring lease or to negotiate favorable terms for a suitable alternate location, and our ability to negotiate favorable lease terms for additional store locations could depend on conditions in the real estate market, competition for desirable properties and our relationships with current and prospective landlords or may depend on other factors that are not within our control. Any or all of these factors and conditions could negatively impact our growth and profitability. Our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to risks arising from the international scope of our operations which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. We conduct a significant portion of our business outside the United States. For fiscals 2010, 2009 and 2008, approximately 38%, 39% and 38% of our Net sales, respectively, were generated outside the United States. In addition, as of January 29, 2011 and January 30, 2010, approximately 37% and 36% of our long-lived assets, respectively, were located outside of the United States. All of our foreign operations are subject to risks inherent in conducting business abroad, including the challenges of different economic conditions in each of the countries, possible nationalization or expropriation, price and currency exchange controls, fluctuations in the relative values of currencies as described below, political instability and restrictive governmental actions. Our business is subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and such fluctuations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Exchange rate fluctuations may affect the translated value of our earnings and cash flow associated with our international operations, as well as the translation of net asset or liability positions that are denominated in foreign currencies. In countries outside of the United States where we operate stores, we generate revenues and incur operating expenses and selling, general and administrative expenses denominated in local currencies. In many countries where we do not operate stores, our licensees pay royalties in U.S. dollars. However, as the royalties are calculated based on local currency sales, our revenues are still impacted by fluctuations in exchange rates. In fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, 38%, 39% and 38% of our Net sales, respectively, were completed in a currency other than the U.S. dollar, the majority of which were denominated in yen, euros, canadian dollars and pounds. In fiscal 2010, our reported operating earnings would have decreased or increased $37 million if all foreign currencies uniformly weakened or strengthened by 10% relative to the U.S. dollar. We enter into foreign exchange agreements from time to time with financial institutions to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates referred to as hedging activities. However, these hedging activities may not eliminate foreign currency risk entirely and involve costs and risks of their own. Although we hedge some exposures to changes in foreign currency exchange rates arising in the ordinary course of business, foreign currency fluctuations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our results may be adversely affected by fluctuations in raw material and energy costs. Our results may be affected by the prices of the components and raw materials used in the manufacture of our toys and juvenile products. These prices may fluctuate based on a number of factors beyond our control, including: oil prices, changes in supply and demand, general economic conditions, labor costs, competition, import duties, tariffs, currency exchange rates and government regulation. In addition, energy costs have fluctuated dramatically in the past. These fluctuations may result in an increase in our transportation costs for distribution, utility costs for our retail stores and overall costs to purchase products from our vendors. We may not be able to adjust the prices of our products, especially in the short-term, to recover these cost increases in raw materials and energy. A continual rise in raw material and energy costs could adversely affect consumer spending and demand for our products and increase our operating costs, both of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A significant disruption to our distribution network or to the timely receipt of inventory could adversely impact sales or increase our transportation costs, which would decrease our profits. We rely on our ability to replenish depleted inventory in our stores through deliveries to our distribution centers from vendors and then from the distribution centers or direct ship vendors to our stores by various means of transportation, including shipments by sea, rail, air and truck. Unexpected delays in those deliveries or increases in transportation costs (including from increased fuel costs) could significantly decrease our ability to make sales and earn profits. In addition, labor shortages or labor disagreements in the transportation industry or long-term disruptions to the national and international transportation infrastructure that lead to delays or interruptions of deliveries could negatively affect our business. 13 Table of Contents Product safety issues, including product recalls, could harm our reputation, divert resources, reduce sales and increase costs. The products we sell in our stores are subject to regulation by the federal Consumer Product Safety Commission and similar state and international regulatory authorities. As a result, such products have been and could be in the future subject to recalls and other remedial actions. Product safety concerns may require us to voluntarily remove selected products from our stores. Such recalls and voluntary removal of products can result in, among other things, lost sales, diverted resources, potential harm to our reputation and increased customer service costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Our business exposes us to personal injury and product liability claims which could result in adverse publicity and harm to our brands and our results of operations. We are from time to time subject to claims due to the injury of an individual in our stores or on our property. In addition, we have in the past been subject to product liability claims for the products that we sell. Subject to certain exceptions, our purchase orders generally require the manufacturer to indemnify us against any product liability claims; however, if the manufacturer does not have insurance or becomes insolvent, there is a risk we would not be indemnified. Any personal injury or product liability claim made against us, whether or not it has merit, could be time consuming and costly to defend, resulting in adverse publicity, or damage to our reputation, and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Adverse litigation judgments or settlements resulting from legal proceedings in which we may be involved could expose us to monetary damages or limit our ability to operate our business. We are involved in private actions, investigations and various other legal proceedings by employees, suppliers, competitors, shareholders, government agencies or others. The results of such litigation, investigations and other legal proceedings are inherently unpredictable. Any claims against us, whether meritorious or not, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, require significant amounts of management time and divert significant resources. If any of these legal proceedings were to be determined adversely to us, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to certain regulatory and legal requirements. If we fail to comply with regulatory or legal requirements, our business and financial results may be adversely affected. We are subject to numerous regulatory and legal requirements. Our policies, procedures and internal controls are designed to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including those imposed by the Federal Trade Commission, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the SEC. In addition, our business activities require us to comply with complex regulatory and legal issues on a local, national and worldwide basis (including, in some cases, more stringent local labor law or regulations). Failure to comply with such laws and regulations could adversely affect our operations and financial results, involve significant expense and divert management’s attention and resources from other matters, which in turn could harm our business. Our business operations could be disrupted if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately or we are unable to protect the integrity and security of our customers’ information. We depend largely upon our information technology systems in the conduct of all aspects of our operations. If our information technology systems fail to perform as anticipated, we could experience difficulties in virtually any area of our operations, including but not limited to replenishing inventories or in delivering our products to store locations in response to consumer demands. Any of these or other systems-related problems could, in turn, adversely affect our sales and profitability. Additionally, a compromise of our security systems (or a design flaw in our system environment) could result in unauthorized access to certain personal information about our customers (including credit card information) which could adversely affect our reputation with our customers and others, as well as our operations, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. In addition, a security breach could require that we expend significant additional resources related to our information security systems. Natural disasters, inclement weather, pandemic outbreaks, terrorist acts or disruptive global political events could cause permanent or temporary distribution center or store closures, impair our ability to purchase, receive or replenish inventory, or decrease customer traffic, all of which could result in lost sales and otherwise adversely affect our financial performance. The occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes, fires, floods, earthquakes, tornados and volcano eruptions, or inclement weather such as frequent or unusually heavy snow, ice or rain storms, or extended periods of unseasonable temperatures, or the occurrence of pandemic outbreaks, labor strikes, work stoppages, terrorist acts or disruptive global political events, such as civil unrest in countries in which our suppliers are located, or similar disruptions could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. To the extent these events impact one or more of our key vendors or result in the closure of one or more of our distribution centers or a significant number of stores, our operations and financial performance could be materially adversely affected through an inability to make deliveries to our stores and through lost sales. In addition, these events could result in increases in fuel (or other energy) prices or a fuel shortage, delays in opening new stores, the temporary lack of an adequate work force in a market, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from some local and overseas vendor, the temporary disruption in the transport of goods from overseas, delay in the delivery of goods to our distribution centers or stores, the temporary reduction in the availability of products in our stores and disruption to our information systems. These events also can have indirect consequences such as increases in the costs of insurance if they result in significant loss of property or other insurable damage. 14 Table of Contents On March 11, 2011, earthquakes followed by tsunamis hit the Northeast coast of Japan, causing significant damage in the surrounding region, including a number of our stores. As of March 23, 2011, six of our Japanese stores remain closed. In addition to the damage and store closings, the concurrent disruption of transportation systems and fuel and power shortages in Japan is likely to have a negative impact on our ability to accept vendor deliveries and conduct business activities in Japan and our Japanese stores’ operating performance. Our results of operations could suffer if we lose key management or are unable to attract and retain experienced senior management for our business. Our future success depends to a significant degree on the skills, experience and efforts of our senior management team. The loss of services of any of these individuals, or the inability by us to attract and retain qualified individuals for key management positions, could harm our business and financial performance. Because of our extensive international operations, we could be adversely affected by violations of the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. The United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. Despite our training and compliance program, we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures always will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. International events could delay or prevent the delivery of products to our stores, which could negatively affect our sales and profitability. A significant portion of products we sell are manufactured outside of the United States, primarily in Asia. As a result, any event causing a disruption of imports, including labor strikes, work stoppages, boycotts, safety issues on materials, the imposition of trade restrictions in the form of tariffs, embargoes or export controls, “anti-dumping” duties, port security or other events that could slow port activities, could increase the cost and reduce the supply of products available to us. In addition, port-labor issues, rail congestion and trucking shortages can have an impact on all direct importers. Although we attempt to anticipate and manage such situations, both our sales and profitability could be adversely impacted by any such developments in the future. These and other international events could negatively affect our sales and profitability. We may experience fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to taxes in the United States and numerous international jurisdictions. We record tax expense based on current tax payments and our estimates of future tax payments, which include reserves for estimates of probable settlements of international and domestic tax audits. At any one time, many tax years are subject to audit by various taxing jurisdictions. The results of these audits and negotiations with taxing authorities may affect the ultimate settlement of these issues. As a result, we expect that throughout the year there could be ongoing variability in our quarterly tax rates as taxable events occur and exposures are re-evaluated. Further, our effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be materially impacted by changes in the mix and level of earnings by taxing jurisdiction or by changes to existing accounting rules or regulations. Fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Changes to accounting rules or regulations may adversely affect our results of operations. Changes to existing accounting rules or regulations may impact our future results of operations or cause the perception that we are more highly leveraged. Other new accounting rules or regulations and varying interpretations of existing accounting rules or regulations have occurred and may occur in the future. For instance, the SEC is currently considering whether issuers in the United States should be required to prepare financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) instead of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”). IFRS is a comprehensive set of accounting standards promulgated by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”). The SEC has indicated that it will decide in 2011 whether IFRS will be required for issuers in the United States. Additionally, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) is considering various changes to GAAP, some of which may be significant, as part of a joint effort with the IASB to converge accounting standards. For instance, the FASB and IASB have issued an exposure draft that would require us to record lease obligations on our balance sheet and make other changes to our financial statements. These and other future changes to accounting rules or regulations may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. Our total assets include goodwill and substantial amounts of property and equipment. Changes to estimates or projections related to such assets, or operating results that are lower than our current estimates at certain store locations, may cause us to incur impairment charges that could adversely affect our results of operations. Our total assets include substantial amounts of property, equipment and goodwill. We make certain estimates and projections in connection with impairment analyses for these assets, in accordance with FASB Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 360, “Property, Plant and Equipment” (“ASC 360”), and ASC Topic 350, “Intangibles—Goodwill and Other” (“ASC 350”). We also review the carrying value of these assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable in accordance with ASC 360 or ASC 350. We will record an impairment loss when the carrying value of the underlying asset, asset group or reporting unit exceeds its fair value. These calculations require us to make a number of estimates and projections of future results. If these estimates or projections change, we may be required to record additional impairment charges on certain of these assets. If these impairment charges are significant, our results of operations would be adversely affected. 15 Table of Contents We may from time to time pursue acquisitions, which could have an adverse impact on our business, as could the integration of the businesses following acquisition. We may from time to time acquire complementary companies or businesses. Acquisitions may result in unanticipated costs, delays or other operational or financial problems related to integrating the acquired company and business with our Company, which may result in the diversion of our capital and our management’s attention from other business issues and opportunities. We may not be able to successfully integrate operations that we acquire, including their personnel, technology, financial systems, distribution and general business operations and procedures. We cannot assure you that any acquisition we make will be successful and our operating results may be adversely impacted by the integration of a new business and its financial results. Risks Related to Our Substantial Indebtedness Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industries, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations under our various debt instruments. We are highly leveraged. As of January 29, 2011, our total indebtedness was $5.3 billion, of which $2.8 billion was secured indebtedness and $2.0 billion of which matures before the end of fiscal 2013. Our substantial indebtedness could have significant consequences, including, among others, the following: • increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; • requiring a substantial portion of cash flows from operating activities to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, and as a result, reducing our ability to use our cash flows to fund our operations and capital expenditures, capitalize on future business opportunities, expand our business and execute our strategy; • increasing the difficulty for us to make scheduled payments on our outstanding debt, as our business may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from operating activities to meet our debt service obligations; • exposing us to the risk of increased interest expense due to changes in borrowing spreads and short-term interest rates; • causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements and general, corporate or other purposes; and • limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and reacting to competitive pressure, placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less leveraged. We may be able to incur additional indebtedness in the future, including under our current revolving credit agreements, subject to the restrictions contained in our debt instruments. If new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may not be able to refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms. If we are unable to do so, we may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, our lenders’ financial stability, which are subject to prevailing global economic and market conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. Even if we were able to refinance or obtain additional financing, the costs of new indebtedness could be substantially higher than the costs of our existing indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations or we are unable to refinance our indebtedness, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt 16 Table of Contents service obligations. If our operating results and available cash are insufficient to meet our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions, or the proceeds from the dispositions may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. If we were unable to repay amounts when due, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. Our debt agreements contain covenants that limit our flexibility in operating our business. Toys “R” Us, Inc. is a holding company and conducts its operations through its subsidiaries, certain of which have incurred their own indebtedness. As specified in certain of our subsidiaries’ debt agreements, there are restrictions on our ability to obtain funds from our subsidiaries through dividends, loans or advances. The agreements governing our indebtedness contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions, and may adversely affect our ability to operate our business. Among other things, these covenants limit our and our subsidiaries’ ability to: • incur certain additional indebtedness; • transfer money between the parent company and our various subsidiaries; • pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions with respect to our or our subsidiaries’ capital stock or make other restricted payments; • issue stock of subsidiaries; • make certain investments, loans or advances; • transfer and sell certain assets; • create or permit liens on assets; • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; • enter into certain transactions with our affiliates; and • amend certain documents. A breach of any of these covenants could result in default under one or more of our debt agreements, which could prompt the lenders to declare all amounts outstanding under the debt agreements to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. If the lenders under the debt agreements accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets and funds to repay the borrowings under our debt agreements. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 17 Table of Contents 