ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Associated with Our Business Investors should carefully consider the risks described below and all other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that it currently deems immaterial may also impair the Company’s business and operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company’s business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our Toys “R” Us business is highly seasonal, and our financial performance depends on the results of the fourth quarter of each year Our Toys “R” Us business is highly seasonal with sales and earnings highest in the fourth quarter. During the last three fiscal years, more than 40% of the sales from our worldwide toy business and a substantial portion of our operating earnings and cash flows from operations were generated in the fourth quarter. Our results of operations depend significantly upon the holiday selling season in the fourth quarter. If we achieve less than satisfactory sales, operating earnings or cash flows from operating activities during the key fourth quarter, we may not be able to compensate sufficiently for the lower sales, operating earnings, or cash flows from operating activities during the first three quarters of the fiscal year. In addition, our results may be affected by dates on which important holidays fall and the shopping patterns relating to those holidays. Our Babies “R” Us business is not significantly impacted by seasonality, with sales generally spread evenly across all the four quarters of the fiscal year. Our industry is highly competitive and competitive conditions may adversely affect our revenues and overall profitability The retailing industry is highly and increasingly competitive and our results of operations are sensitive to, and may be adversely affected by, competitive pricing, promotional pressures, additional competitor store openings, and other factors. We compete with discount and mass merchandisers such as Wal-Mart, Target, and Kmart; electronic retailers, such as Best Buy and Circuit City; national and regional chains; as well as local retailers in the market areas we serve. We also compete with discount stores, supermarkets and warehouse clubs. In addition, competition in the retail apparel business consists of national and local department stores, specialty and discount store chains, as well as Internet and catalog businesses. Competition is principally based on product variety, quality and availability, price, convenience or store location, advertising and promotion, customer support and service. Some of our competitors may have greater financial resources, lower merchandise acquisition costs, and lower operating expenses than our Company. Most of the merchandise we sell is also available from various retailers at competitive prices. Discount and mass merchandisers use aggressive pricing policies and enlarged toy-selling areas during the holiday season to 13 Table of Contents build traffic for other store departments. Our apparel business is vulnerable to demand and pricing shifts and to less than optimal selection as a result of these factors. Competition in the video game market has increased in recent years as mass merchandisers have expanded and consumer electronics retailers, such as Best Buy, Circuit City and Gamestop, have all experienced significant growth. In addition, the baby registry market is highly competitive, with competition based on convenience, quality and selection of merchandise offerings and functionality. Our baby registry primarily competes with the baby registries of mass merchandisers, such as Wal-Mart and Target, and other specialty format and regional retailers. Some of our competitors have been aggressively advertising and marketing their baby registries through national and television and magazine campaigns. Within the past few years, the number of multiple registries and online registries has steadily increased. These trends present consumers with more choices for their baby registry needs, and, as a result, increase competition for our baby registry. If we fail to compete successfully, we could face lower sales and may decide or be compelled to offer greater discounts to our customers, which could result in decreased profitability. Our operations have significant liquidity and capital requirements and depend on the availability of adequate financing We have significant liquidity and capital requirements. Among other things, the seasonality of our Toys “R” Us business requires us to purchase merchandise well in advance of the holiday selling season. We depend on our ability to generate cash flow from operating activities, as well as on borrowings under $2 billion five-year secured revolving credit facility to finance the carrying costs of this inventory, to pay for capital expenditures and to maintain operations. Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s rate our unsecured debt as non-investment grade. Our credit ratings could (1) negatively impact our ability to finance our operations on satisfactory terms, and (2) have the effect of increasing our financing costs. While we currently have adequate sources of funds to provide for our ongoing operations and capital requirements, any inability to have future access to financing, when needed, would have a negative effect on our company. We may not retain or attract customers if we fail to implement successfully our strategy We continue to implement a series of customer-oriented strategic programs designed to differentiate and strengthen our core merchandise content and service levels and expand and enhance our merchandise offering in our Babies “R” Us stores. We are also broadening the scope of our marketing and advertising programs for our Toys “R” Us and Babies “R” Us stores. The success of these and other initiatives will depend on various factors, including the appeal of our store formats, our ability to offer new products to customers, our financial condition, our ability to respond to changing consumer preferences and competitive and economic conditions. We are also continuing with plans to reduce and optimize our operating expense structure. If we are unsuccessful at implementing some or all of our strategic initiatives, we may be unable to retain or attract customers, which could result in lower sales and a failure to realize the benefit of the expenditures incurred for these initiatives. Our sales may be adversely affected if we fail to respond to changes in consumer preferences in a timely manner Our financial performance depends on our ability to identify, originate and define product trends, as well as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. Our toy and baby-juvenile products must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to change. The retail apparel business fluctuates according to changes in consumer preferences dictated in part by fashion, perceived value and season. These fluctuations affect the merchandise in stock since purchase orders are made well in advance of the season and, at times, before fashion trends and high-demand brands are evidenced by consumer purchases. 14 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to meet changing consumer demands in the future. If we misjudge the market for our products, we may be faced with significant excess inventories for some products and missed opportunities for other products. In addition, because we place orders for products well in advance of purchases by customers, we could experience excess inventory if our customers purchase fewer products than anticipated. Our sales may be adversely affected by changes in consumer spending patterns Sales of toys and baby-juvenile products may depend upon discretionary consumer spending, which may be affected by general economic conditions, consumer confidence, and other factors beyond our control. A decline in consumer spending could, among other things, negatively affect our sales and could also result in excess inventories, which could in turn lead to increased inventory financing expenses. As a result, changes in consumer spending patterns could adversely affect our profitability. Toy sales may be negatively impacted by the trend toward age compression Toy sales may be negatively impacted by “age compression,” which is the acceleration of children leaving traditional play categories at increasingly younger ages for more sophisticated products such as cell phones, DVD players, CD players, MP3 devices, and other electronic products. The age compression pattern tends to decrease consumer demand for traditional toys. To the extent that we are unable to offer consumers more sophisticated products or that these more sophisticated items are also available at a wider range of retailers than our traditional competitors, our sales and profitability could be detrimentally affected and we could experience excess inventories. Sales of video games tend to be cyclical and may result in fluctuations in our results of operations Sales of video games, which have tended to account for 10% to 20% of our domestic toy store sales, have been cyclical in nature in response to the introduction and maturation of new technology. Following the introduction of new video game platforms, sales of these platforms and related software and accessories generally increase due to initial demand, while sales of older platforms and related products generally decrease as customers migrate toward the new platforms. New video game platforms have historically been introduced approximately every five years. If video game platform manufacturers fail to develop new hardware platforms, our sales of video game products could decline. We depend on key vendors to supply the merchandise that we sell to our customers Our performance depends, in part, on our ability to purchase our merchandise in sufficient quantities at competitive prices. We purchase our merchandise from numerous foreign and domestic manufacturers and importers. We have no contractual assurances of continued supply, pricing or access to new products, and any vendor could change the terms upon which they sell to us or discontinue selling to us at any time. We may not be able to acquire desired merchandise in sufficient quantities on terms acceptable to us in the future. Better than expected sales demand may also lead to customer backorders and lower in-stock positions of our merchandise. We have approximately 1,300 to 1,500 vendor relationships through which we procure the merchandise that we offer to guests. For 2005, our top 20 vendors worldwide, based on our purchase volume in dollars, represented approximately 39% of the total products we purchased. Our inability to acquire suitable merchandise on acceptable terms or the loss of one or more key vendors could have a negative effect on our business and operating results because we would be missing products that we felt were important to our assortment, unless and until alternative supply arrangements are secured. We may not be able to develop relationships with new vendors, and products from alternative sources, if any, may be of a lesser quality and/or more expensive than those we currently purchase. In addition, our vendors are subject to certain risks, including labor disputes, union organizing activities, vendor financial liquidity, inclement weather, natural disasters, and general economic and political conditions, 15 Table of Contents that could limit our vendors’ ability to provide us with quality merchandise on a timely basis and at a price that is commercially acceptable. For these or other reasons, one or more of our vendors might not adhere to our quality control standards, and we might not identify the deficiency before merchandise ships to our stores or customers. In addition, our vendors may have difficulty adjusting to our changing demands and growing business. Our vendors’ failure to manufacture or import quality merchandise in a timely and effective manner could damage our reputation and brands, and could lead to an increase in customer litigation against us and an attendant increase in our routine litigation costs. Further, any merchandise that does not meet our quality standards could become subject to a recall, which would damage our reputation and brands, and harm our business. Our inability to obtain commercial insurance at acceptable prices or our failure to adequately reserve for self-insured exposures might have a negative impact on our business. Insurance costs continue to be volatile, affected by natural catastrophes, fear of terrorism and financial irregularities and other fraud at publicly traded companies. We believe that commercial insurance coverage is prudent for risk management, and insurance costs may increase substantially in the future. In addition, for certain types or levels of risk, such as risks associated with earthquakes, hurricanes or terrorist attacks, we may determine that we cannot obtain commercial insurance at acceptable prices. Therefore, we may choose to forego or limit our purchase of relevant commercial insurance, choosing instead to self-insure one or more types or levels of risks. We insure a substantial portion of our general liability and workers’ compensation risks through a wholly-owned insurance subsidiary, in addition to third party insurance coverage. Provisions for losses related to self-insured risks are based upon independent actuarially determined estimates. We maintain stop-loss coverage to limit the exposure related to certain risks. The assumptions underlying the ultimate costs of existing claim losses are subject to a high degree of unpredictability, which can affect the liability recorded for such claims. For example, variability in inflation rates of health care costs inherent in these claims can affect the amounts realized. Similarly, changes in legal trends and interpretations, as well as a change in the nature and method of how claims are settled can impact ultimate costs. Although our estimates of liabilities incurred do not anticipate significant changes in historical trends for these variables, any changes could have a considerable effect upon future claim costs and currently recorded liabilities and could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. International events could delay or prevent the delivery of products to our stores A significant portion of the toys and other products sold by us are manufactured outside of the United States, primarily in Asia. As a result, any event causing a disruption of imports, including the imposition of import restrictions or trade restrictions in the form of tariffs, “antidumping” duties, acts of war, terrorism or diseases such as the bird flu, could increase the cost and reduce the supply of products available to us, which could, in turn, negatively affect our sales and profitability. In addition, over the past few years, port-labor issues, rail congestion, and trucking shortages have had an impact on all direct importers. Although we attempt to anticipate and manage such situations, both our sales and profitability could be adversely impacted by such developments in the future. International factors could negatively affect our business We are subject to the risks inherent in conducting our business across national boundaries, many of which are outside of our control. These risks include the following: • Economic downturns; • Currency exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations; • Changes in governmental policy, including, among others, those relating to taxation; • International military, political, diplomatic and terrorist incidents; • Government instability; • Nationalization of foreign assets; and • Tariffs and governmental trade policies. 16 Table of Contents We cannot ensure that one or more of these factors will not negatively affect International and, as a result, our business and financial performance. The success of our Internet operations depends on our ability to provide quality service to our Internet customers The success of our online business depends on our ability to provide quality service to our Internet customers. Our internet segment Toysrus.com operates online stores pursuant to a strategic alliance agreement with Amazon.com. On May 21, 2004, we, Toysrus.com, LLC, our Internet subsidiary, and two other affiliated companies, filed a lawsuit against Amazon.com and its affiliated companies requesting termination of our strategic alliance agreement with Amazon.com. On June 25, 2004, Amazon.com filed a counterclaim against us and our affiliated companies. On March 31, 2006 the trial court entered a final order in our favor terminating the strategic alliance agreement with Amazon.com as of that date and denying Amazon.com’s counterclaim. The court also established a wind-down period through June 30, 2006, during which time Amazon.com will continue to operate the co-branded stores. On April 3, 2006 Amazon filed a Notice of Appeal and filed a Motion for Stay of Judgment in the trial court. On April 20, 2006, the trial court denied Amazon.com’s request for a stay. Amazon.com filed a request in the appellate court on April 21, 2006 for emergent relief from the trial court’s denial of its request for a stay, and on that same day, the appellate court refused Amazon.com’s motion for an immediate stay and determined to consider Amazon.com’s request on the normal briefing schedule. For further details refer to Item 3 entitled “LEGAL PROCEEDINGS” and Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements entitled “LITIGATION AND LEGAL PROCEEDINGS”. In anticipation of these favorable rulings, we have been planning for the launch of an independent website at our domain names, however, we may not be able to provide the same level of website and fulfillment services ourselves or through other third parties, which could have a negative effect on the sales and profitability of our online business. Our Internet operations are also subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, which are beyond our control, including the following: • changes in consumer willingness to purchase goods via the Internet; • increases in software filters that may inhibit our ability to market our products through e-mail messages to our customers and increases in consumer privacy concerns relating to the Internet; • changes in applicable federal and state regulation, such as the Federal Trade Commission Act, the Children’s Online Privacy Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act and the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act; • breaches of Internet security; and • failures in our Internet infrastructure or the failure of systems or third parties, such as telephone or electric power service, resulting in website downtime or other problems. Our business exposes us to personal injury and product liability claims which could result in adverse publicity and harm to our brand and our results of operations We are from time to time subject to claims due to the injury of an individual in our stores or on our property. In addition, we have in the past been subject to product liability claims for the products that we sell. While our purchase orders generally require the manufacturer to indemnify us against any product liability claims, there is a risk that if the manufacturer becomes insolvent we would not be indemnified. Any personal 17 Table of Contents injury claim made against us or, in the event the manufacturer was insolvent, any product liability claim made against us, whether or not it has merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation expenses and damages, result in adverse publicity or damage to our brand and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business operations could be disrupted if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately We depend upon our information technology systems in the conduct of our operations. If our major information systems fail to perform as anticipated, we could experience difficulties in replenishing inventories or in delivering toys and other products to store locations in response to consumer demands. Any of these or other systems related problems could, in turn, adversely affect our sales and profitability. Our results of operations could suffer if we lose key management or are unable to attract and retain the talent required for our business Our future success depends to a significant degree on the skills, experience and efforts of our senior management team. The loss of services of any of these individuals, or the inability by us and our parent company to attract and retain qualified individuals for key management positions, could harm our business and financial performance. We reported a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting and if we are unable to improve our internal controls, our financial results may not be accurately reported Management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of January 28, 2006 identified a material weakness in our internal controls in our financial reporting process due mainly to our lack of the appropriate complement of personnel, including technically qualified personnel, and the inability of our information technology systems to consistently perform necessary functions. As a result of this material weakness, management determined that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of January 28, 2006. The material weakness and our plan to remediate that material weakness are described in Item 9A. entitled “CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The initiatives we have taken to improve the reliability of our internal controls and to remediate the material weakness are ongoing. However, we might be unable to hire sufficient qualified personnel and or obtain the necessary technological upgrades needed to remediate the material weakness. We cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial reporting processes and that we will remediate the material weakness described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls or to remediate the material weakness, or difficulties encountered in their implementation could prevent us from accurately reporting our financial results, result in material misstatements in our financial statements or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will not in the future identify further material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that we have not discovered to date, which may impact the reliability of our financial reporting and financial statements. Insufficient internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. Changes to accounting rules or regulations may adversely affect our results of operations Changes to existing accounting rules or regulations may impact our future results of operations. For example, on December 16, 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Statement No. 123R, “Share Based Payment,” which requires us, starting in the first quarter of fiscal 2006, to measure compensation costs for all stock-based compensation at fair value and record compensation expense equal to that value over the requisite service period. A change in accounting rules or regulations may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. Other new accounting rules or regulations and varying 18 Table of Contents interpretations of existing accounting rules or regulations have occurred and may occur in the future. Future changes to accounting rules or regulations or the questioning of current accounting practices, may adversely affect our results of operations. Changes to estimates related to our property and equipment, or operating results that are lower than our current estimates at certain store locations, may cause us to incur impairment charges We make certain estimates and projections in connection with impairment analyses for certain of our store locations in accordance with SFAS No. 144 “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.” We review for impairment all stores for which current cash flows from operations are negative or the construction costs are significantly in excess of the amount originally expected. An impairment charge is required when the carrying value of the asset exceeds the undiscounted future cash flows over the life of the lease. These calculations require us to make a number of estimates and projections of future results, often up to 20 years into the future. If these estimates or projections change or prove incorrect, we may be, and have been, required to record impairment charges on certain of these store locations. If these impairment charges are significant, our results of operations would be adversely affected. The Sponsors control us and may have conflicts of interest with us in the future Investment funds or group advised by or affiliated with the Sponsors currently indirectly control us through their ownership of 98.7% of the voting stock of our parent holding company. As a result, the Sponsors have control over our decisions to enter into any corporate transaction and have the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of stockholders. For example, if we encounter financial difficulties or are unable to pay our debts as they mature, the interests of the Sponsors as equity holders may conflict with our interests. In addition, the Sponsors may have an interest in pursuing dispositions, acquisitions, financings or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investments, even though such transactions might involve risks to us as a company. For example, the Sponsors could cause us to make acquisitions that increase the amount of indebtedness that is secured or sell assets, which may impair our ability to make payments under the debt instruments. The Sponsors may direct us to make significant changes to our business operations and strategy, including with respect to, among other things, store openings and closings, new product and service offerings, sales of real estate and other assets, employee headcount levels and initiatives to reduce cost and expenses. We cannot assure you that the future business operations of our company will remain broadly in line with our existing operations or that significant real estate and other assets will not be sold. The Sponsors also are in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. One or more of the Sponsors may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as investment funds associated with or designated by the Sponsors continue to indirectly own a significant amount of the outstanding shares of our common stock, even if such amount is less than 50%, the Sponsors will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. Risks Related to Our Substantial Indebtedness Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations under the various debt instruments We are highly leveraged. As of January 28, 2006, our total indebtedness was $5,947 million, including $12 million of payment obligations relating to capital lease obligations. 19 Table of Contents Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences, including: • making it more difficult for us to make payments on the debt, as our business may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from operating activities to meet our debt service obligations; • increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; • requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operating activities to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, and as a result reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations and capital expenditures, capitalize on future business opportunities and expand our business and execute our strategy; • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest; • causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements and general corporate or other purposes; and • limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and to react to competitive pressure and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged. Our subsidiaries and we may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our debt instruments. If new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. In addition, we could be unable to refinance or obtain additional financing because of market conditions, our high levels of debt and the debt restrictions included in our debt instruments. Additionally, our costs of new indebtedness could be substantially higher. For the fiscal year 2005, our interest expense was $394 million compared to $130 million for the fiscal year 2004. Based on our overall interest rate exposure related to floating rate debt outstanding at January 28, 2006, a 1% increase in interest rates would have had an unfavorable annualized impact on pre-tax earnings of $31 million in 2005. Our debt agreements contain covenants that limit our flexibility in operating our business The agreements governing our indebtedness contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions, and which may adversely affect our ability to operate our business. Among other things, these covenants limit our and our subsidiaries’ ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments; • issue stock of subsidiaries; • make certain investments, loans or advances; • transfer and sell certain assets; • create or permit liens on assets; • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; • enter into certain transactions with our affiliates; and • amend certain material documents. A breach of any of these covenants could result in default under our debt agreements, which could prompt the lenders to declare all amounts outstanding under the debt agreements to be immediately due and payable and 20 Table of Contents terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. If the lenders under the debt agreements accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient assets and funds to repay the borrowings under our debt agreements. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 