Item 1A. Risk Factors. The reader should carefully consider each of the risks described below. If any of the following risks described below should occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected and the trading price of our Common Stock could decline significantly. The Company has attempted to identify what it believes are the most significant risks to its business. However, the Company cannot predict whether, or to what extent, any of such risks may be realized nor can the Company guarantee that it has identified all possible risks that might arise. You should not consider the risks and assumptions identified in or referenced by this report to be a complete discussion of all potential risks and uncertainties affecting the Company. Investors should carefully consider all risk factors before making an investment decision with respect to any equity or debt instruments of the Company. The following cautionary discussion is provided of risks, uncertainties and possible inaccurate assumptions relevant to the Company’s business and products. These are among the factors that may cause the actual results of the Company to differ materially from expected results. Other risks besides those listed here could also adversely affect the Company. Internet radio is an emerging market, which makes it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects. Internet radio is an emerging market and our current business and future prospects are difficult to evaluate. The market for internet radio has undergone rapid and dramatic changes in its relatively short history and is subject to significant challenges. As a result, the future revenue and income potential of our business is uncertain. You should consider our business and prospects in light of the risks and difficulties we encounter in this new and rapidly evolving market, which risks and difficulties include, among others: · our relatively new, evolving and unproven business model; · our ability to retain our current listenership, build our listener base and increase listener hours; · our ability to effectively monetize listener hours, particularly with respect to listener hours on mobile devices; · our ability to attract new advertisers, retain existing advertisers and prove to advertisers that our advertising platform is effective enough to justify a pricing structure that is profitable for us; · our ability to maintain relationships with makers of mobile devices, consumer electronic products and automobiles; and · our operation under an evolving music industry licensing structure that may change or cease to exist, which in turn may result in a significant increase in our operating expenses. Failure to successfully address these risks and difficulties, and other challenges associated with operating in a new and emerging market, could significantly harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and prospects. The Company requires additional financing, the availability of which is uncertain, in order to continue in business. The Company may be forced by business and economic conditions to accept financing terms which will require the issuance of its securities at a discount, which could result in further dilution to our existing stockholders. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available to the Company when needed or, if available, that it can be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. In addition, any additional equity financing may involve substantial dilution to our stockholders. If the Company fails to raise sufficient financing to meet its immediate cash needs, the Company will be forced to scale down or perhaps even cease business operations. This may result in the loss of some or all of your investment in our common stock. In addition, in seeking debt or equity private placement financing, the Company may be forced by business and economic conditions to accept terms which will require the issuance of the Company’s securities at a discount from the prevailing market price or face amount, which could result in further dilution to our existing stockholders. The Company has a history of operating losses and fluctuating operating results, which raise substantial doubt about its ability to continue as a going concern. Since inception through December 31, 2011, we have incurred aggregate losses of approximately $65 million. While the Company had a small amount of net income for the year ended December 31, 2004, the net income was primarily attributable to one-time items in other income. There is no assurance that the Company will operate profitably or will generate positive cash flow in the future. The Company is continuing to develop its subscriber base and advertising revenues and it is anticipated that it will continue to incur significant losses for the foreseeable future as it carries on this process. In addition, the Company’s operating results in the future may be subject to significant fluctuations due to many factors not within our control, such as the level of competition and general economic conditions. 10 Investors could lose money on their investment because the Company is in the early stages of generating revenues. Unless the Company can generate significant revenues, it may not be able to operate its business and consequently investors could lose money on their investment. The Company’s ability to generate revenues and ultimately to become profitable will depend upon several factors, including: · whether the Company can attract and retain enough subscribers to Radioio, Radioio Live, and ioBusinessMusic; · whether the Company can adequately control the costs of obtaining and retaining subscribers and programming; · whether the Company can compete successfully; and · whether the Company can obtain and retain sufficient advertising revenues and other sources of income from its operations. Demand for our service may be insufficient for us to become profitable. Internet radio is a relatively new service and consequently it is not possible to estimate whether consumer demand for this service will be sufficient to profitably operate. Among other things, increased acceptance of Radioio’s offerings will be dependent upon enticing consumers to make the switch to internet radio, to provide consumers with the quality and variety of programming they desire, technological advances in the availability of bandwidth to maximize the quality of the listening experience to the ultimate consumer, and the Company’s marketing and pricing strategies and those used by its competitors. If demand for the service provided by Radioio does not continue and increase as expected, the Company may not be able to operate profitably. Our failure to convince advertisers of the benefits of our service in the future could harm our business. From inception we have derived a large percentage of our revenue from the sale of advertising and expect to continue to derive a substantial majority of our revenue from the sale of advertising in the future. Our ability to attract and retain advertisers, and ultimately to generate advertising revenue, depends on a number of factors, including: · increasing the number of listener hours; · keeping pace with changes in technology and our competitors; · competing effectively for advertising dollars from other online marketing and media companies; · penetrating the market for local radio advertising; · continuing to develop and diversify our advertisement platform, which currently includes delivery of display, audio and video advertising products through multiple delivery channels, including traditional computers, mobile and other connected devices, including automobiles; and · coping with ad blocking technologies that have been developed and are likely to continue to be developed that can block the display of our ads. Our agreements with advertisers are generally short term or may be terminated at any time by the advertiser. Advertisers are spending only a small amount of their overall advertising budget on our service, may view advertising with us as experimental and unproven and may leave us for competing alternatives at any time. We may never succeed in capturing a greater share of our advertisers’ core advertising spending, particularly if we are unable to achieve the scale and market penetration necessary to demonstrate the effectiveness of our advertising platforms, or if our advertising model proves ineffective or not competitive when compared to alternatives. Failure to demonstrate the value of our service would result in reduced spending by, or loss of, existing or potential future advertisers, which would materially harm our revenue and business. The market for advertising on mobile devices, such as smartphones, is immature and if we are unable to increase revenue from advertising that targets our listeners who use mobile devices, our results of operations will be materially adversely affected. Our number of listener hours on mobile devices has surpassed listener hours on traditional computers and we expect that this trend will continue and is likely to accelerate. The market for advertising on mobile devices is immature and the percentage of the advertising market allocated to advertising on mobile devices is lower than online advertising. Our cost of content acquisition is calculated on the same basis whether a listening hour is consumed on a traditional computer or a mobile device. To date, we have not been able to generate revenue from advertising that targets our listeners who use mobile devices as effectively as we have for our traditional computer listeners. We have aggressive plans to increase the number of listeners who use the Companies services on mobile devices, including our efforts to expand integration into automobiles, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively monetize mobile listenership, or the time frame on which we may do so. 11 We operate under statutory licensing structures for the reproduction and public performance of sound recordings that could change or cease to exist, which would adversely affect our business. We currently operate under statutory licensing regimes and structures that may change or cease to exist. Unlike traditional radio broadcasters, we must pay performance rights royalties for the digital audio transmission of sound recordings pursuant to the Digital Performance Right in Sound Recordings Act and Digital Millennium Copyright Act. Subject to our ongoing compliance with numerous statutory conditions and regulatory requirements for a non-interactive service, we are permitted to operate under a statutory license that allows the streaming in the U.S. of any sound recording lawfully released to the public. We are also permitted to make reproductions of sound recordings on computer servers pursuant to a separate statutory license designed to facilitate the making of transmissions. There is no guarantee that we will continue to be eligible to operate under these statutory licenses. For example, if a court were to determine that we operate an interactive streaming service or make reproductions of sound recordings outside the statutory license, we would have to negotiate license agreements with sound recording copyright owners individually, a time consuming and expensive undertaking that would jeopardize our ability to stream all music currently in our library and could result in royalty costs that are prohibitively expensive. In addition, if copyright owners object to the functionality or transmission methods of our service, we could lose our eligibility to operate under the statutory licenses. Our ability to avoid negotiating separate agreements with the many copyright owners of sound recordings depends on these two statutory licenses, and if we were to no longer qualify for operation under, or violate the provisions of the statutory licenses, we could be subject to significant liability for copyright infringement and may no longer be able to operate under our existing licensing regime, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The rates to be paid for the streaming of sound recordings pursuant to the statutory licenses can be established by either negotiation or through a rate proceeding conducted by the Copyright Royalty Board, or CRB, a tribunal established within the U.S. Library of Congress. In 2007, the CRB set royalty rates for the online streaming of sound recordings for 2006 through 2010 that were so high that the cost for streaming sound recordings alone would have been unsustainable under our current business model. In response to the lobbying efforts of internet webcasters, including ourselves, Congress passed the Webcaster Settlement Acts of 2008 and 2009, which permitted webcasters and SoundExchange, the sole entity designated by the CRB to collect and distribute the statutory royalties paid by internet webcasters such as us, to negotiate alternative rates to those established by the CRB for the years 2006 through 2015. In July 2009, certain webcasters reached an agreement with SoundExchange, establishing a more favorable royalty structure that we have elected to accept and that by its terms will apply through 2015. We do not know what rates will be available to us following that period and there is no guarantee that the royalty structure that emerged from the negotiations with SoundExchange pursuant to the Webcaster Settlement Acts will be available after 2015. The CRB, which still has rate-making authority over us upon expiration of our agreement with SoundExchange, has consistently established royalty rates that would, if paid by us, consume an unsustainable percentage of our revenue. If we are unable to reach a new agreement with SoundExchange for the period after 2015, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unavailability of, or fluctuations in, third-party measurements of our audience may adversely affect our ability to grow advertising revenue. Selling ads requires that we demonstrate to advertisers that our service has substantial reach, and we rely on third parties to quantify the reach of our service. These third-party ratings may not reflect our true listening audience and the third parties may change their methodologies, either of which could adversely impact our business. Third-party independent rating agencies have not yet developed rating systems that comprehensively and accurately measure the reach of our service. We expect that in the future these rating agencies will begin to publish increasingly reliable information about the reach of our service. However, until then, in order to demonstrate to potential advertisers the reach of our service, we must supplement third-party ratings data with our internal research, which is perceived as less reliable than third-party numbers. If our mobile audience becomes rated, it is not clear whether the measurement technology of the third-party rating agencies will initially integrate with ours or whether their methodology will accurately reflect the value of our service. If such third-party ratings are inaccurate or we receive low ratings, our ability to convince advertisers of the benefits of our service would be adversely affected. Our success depends upon the continued acceptance of online advertising as an alternative or supplement to offline advertising. The percentage of the advertising market allocated to online advertising lags the percentage of time spent by people consuming media online by a significant degree. Growth of our business will depend in large part on the reduction or elimination of this gap between online and offline advertising spending, which may not happen in a way or to the extent that we currently expect. Many advertisers still have limited experience with online advertising and may continue to devote significant portions of their advertising budgets to traditional, offline advertising media. Accordingly, we continue to compete for advertising dollars with traditional media, including broadcast radio. Although advertisers as a whole are spending an increasing amount of their overall advertising budget on online advertising, we face a number of challenges in growing our advertising revenue. We compete for advertising dollars with significantly larger and more established online marketing and media companies such as Facebook, Google, MSN and Yahoo!. We believe that the continued growth and acceptance of our online advertising products will depend on the perceived effectiveness and the acceptance of online advertising models generally, which is outside of our control, and any lack of growth in the market for online advertising could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 If our efforts to attract prospective listeners and to retain existing listeners are not successful, our growth prospects and revenue will be adversely affected. Our ability to grow our business and generate advertising revenue depends on retaining and expanding our listener base and increasing listener hours. We must convince prospective listeners of the benefits of our service and existing listeners of the continuing value of our service. The more listener hours we stream, the more ad inventory we have to sell. Further, growth in our listener base increases the size of demographic pools targeted by advertisers, which improves our ability to deliver advertising in a manner that maximizes our advertising customers’ return on investment and, ultimately, to demonstrate the effectiveness of our advertising solutions and justify a pricing structure that is profitable for us. If we fail to grow our listener base and listener hours particularly in key demographics such as young adults, we will be unable to grow advertising revenue, and our business will be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to increase the number of our listeners and listener hours will depend on effectively addressing a number of challenges and we may fail to do so. Some of these challenges include: · providing listeners with a consistent high quality, user-friendly and personalized experience; · continuing to build our catalog of music content that our listeners enjoy; · continuing to innovate and keep pace with changes in technology and our competitors; and · maintaining and building our relationships with makers of consumer products such as mobile devices, other consumer electronic products and automobiles to make our service available through their products. In addition, we have historically relied heavily on the success of viral marketing to expand consumer awareness of our service. If we are unable to maintain or increase the efficacy of our viral marketing strategy, or if we otherwise decide to expand the reach of our marketing through use of more costly marketing campaigns, we will experience an increase in marketing expenses, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in maintaining or expanding our listener base and failure to do so would materially reduce our revenue and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Further, although we use our number of registered users as one indicator of the growth of our business, the number of registered users exceeds the number of unique individuals who actively use our service for a number of reasons. We define registered users as the total number of accounts that have been created for our service. A person must provide an email address and a user name, but no personally unique information. As such, a person may have multiple accounts. In addition, many registered users may not use our service actively. If the number of actual listeners does not meet our expectations, or we are otherwise unable to increase the listener hours of our existing listeners, then our business may not grow as quickly as we expect, which may harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We compete with other content providers for listener hours. We compete for the time and attention of our listeners with other content providers on the basis of a number of factors, including quality of experience, relevance, acceptance and diversity of content, ease of use, price, accessibility, perception of ad load and brand awareness and reputation. Our competitors include terrestrial radio providers such as CBS and Clear Channel, satellite radio providers such as Sirius/XM, online radio providers such as Pandora, iheartradio, Last.fm and Slacker Personal Radio, subscription online on-demand music providers such as RDIO and Rhapsody and potential U.S. market entrants like Spotify. Terrestrial radio providers offer their content for free, are well-established and are accessible to listeners and offer content, such as news, comedy, sports, traffic, weather and talk, which we currently do not. In addition, many terrestrial radio stations have begun broadcasting digital signals, which provide high quality audio transmission. Satellite radio providers offer extensive and oftentimes exclusive news, comedy, sports and talk content, national signal coverage, and long established automobile integration. Select online providers offer more extensive content libraries and can be accessed internationally, while online on-demand services give listeners total control to choose their content. We also compete more broadly with providers of alternative forms of audio media and entertainment, which are purchased or available for free and playable on mobile devices, automobiles and in the home, such as iTunes audio files, MP3s, CDs, and other forms of pre-recorded audio, as well as content streams from other online services such as Hulu, VEVO and YouTube. We face increasing competition for listeners from a growing variety of businesses that deliver audio media content through mobile phones and other wireless devices, such as iTunes. 13 We believe that companies with a combination of financial resources, technical expertise and digital media experience also pose a significant threat of developing competing internet radio and digital audio entertainment technologies in the future. In particular, if known incumbents in the digital media space such as Amazon, Apple, Facebook or Google choose to offer competing services, they may devote greater resources than we have available, have a more accelerated time frame for deployment and leverage their existing user base and proprietary technologies to provide products and services that our listeners and advertisers may view as superior. Our current and future competitors may have more well-established brand recognition, more established relationships with consumer product manufacturers, greater financial, technical, and other resources, more sophisticated technologies or more experience in the markets in which we compete. We also compete for listeners on the basis of our presence and visibility as compared with other businesses and software that deliver audio and other content through the internet, mobile devices and consumer products. We face significant competition for listeners from companies promoting their own digital music and content online or through application stores, including several large, well-funded and seasoned participants in the digital media market. Search engines, such as Google, and mobile device application stores, such as the iTunes Store, rank responses to search queries based on the popularity of a website or mobile application, as well as other factors that are outside of our control. Additionally, mobile device application stores often offer users the ability to browse applications by various criteria, such as the number of downloads in a given time period, the length of time since a mobile app was released or updated, or the category in which the application is placed. The websites and mobile applications of our competitors may rank higher than our website and our app’s may be difficult to locate in mobile device application stores, which could draw potential listeners away from our service and toward those of our competitors. In addition, our competitors’ products may be pre-loaded into consumer electronics products or automobiles, creating an initial visibility advantage. If we are unable to compete successfully for listeners against other digital media providers by maintaining and increasing our presence and visibility online, in application stores and in consumer electronics products and automobiles, our listener hours may fail to increase as expected or decline and our advertising sales will suffer. To compete effectively, we must continue to invest significant resources in the development of our service to enhance the user experience of our listeners. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully for listeners in the future against existing or new competitors, or that competition will not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We compete for advertising spending with other content providers. We compete for a share of advertisers’ overall marketing budgets with other content providers on a variety of factors including perceived return on investment, effectiveness and relevance of our advertising products, pricing structure and ability to deliver large volumes or precise types of ads to targeted demographics. We face significant competition for advertising dollars from terrestrial and, to a lesser extent, satellite radio providers. As many of the advertisers we target have traditionally advertised on terrestrial radio and have less experience with internet radio providers, they may be reluctant to spend for advertising on traditional computers, mobile or other connected device platforms. In addition, terrestrial radio providers as well as other traditional media companies in television and print, such as broadcast television networks such as ABC, CBS, FOX and NBC, cable television channel providers, national newspapers such as the New York Times and the Wall Street Journal and some regional newspapers, enjoy a number of competitive advantages over us in attracting advertisers, including large established audiences, longer operating histories, greater brand recognition and a growing presence on the internet. Although advertisers are allocating an increasing amount of their overall marketing budgets to web and mobile-based ads, such spending lags behind growth in internet usage, and the market for online and mobile advertising is intensely competitive. As a result, we also compete for advertisers with a range of internet companies, including major internet portals, search engine companies and social media sites. Large internet companies with greater brand recognition, such as Facebook, Google, MSN and Yahoo! have significant numbers of direct sales personnel and substantial proprietary advertising inventory and web traffic that provide a significant competitive advantage and have a significant impact on pricing for internet advertising and web traffic. The trend toward consolidation among online marketing and media companies may also affect pricing and availability of advertising inventory. In order to compete successfully for advertisers against new and existing competitors, we must continue to invest resources in developing and diversifying our advertisement platform, harnessing listener data and ultimately proving the effectiveness and relevance of our advertising products. Pressure from competitors seeking to acquire a greater share of our advertisers’ overall marketing budget could adversely affect our pricing and margins, lower our revenue, increase our research and development and marketing expenses and prevent us from achieving or maintaining profitability. If we are unable to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, our business, financial condition or results of operations will be adversely affected. Interruptions or delays in service arising from our own systems or from our third-party vendors could impair the delivery of our service and harm our business. We rely on systems housed in our own facilities and upon third-party vendors, including bandwidth providers and data center facilities located in Chicago, Illinois, to enable listeners to receive our content in a dependable, timely, and efficient manner. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience periodic service interruptions and delays involving our own systems and those of our third-party vendors. We do not currently maintain a live fail-over capability that would allow us to switch our streaming operations from one facility to another in the event of a service outage. Both our own facilities and those of our third-party vendors are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. They also are subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, the failure of physical, administrative, and technical security measures, terrorist acts, natural disasters, human error, the financial insolvency of our third-party vendors and other unanticipated problems or events. The occurrence of any of these events could result in interruptions in our service and to unauthorized access to, or alteration of, the content and data contained on our systems and that these third-party vendors store and deliver on our behalf. 14 We exercise no control over our third-party vendors, which makes us vulnerable to any errors, interruptions, or delays in their operations. Any disruption in the services provided by these vendors could have significant adverse impacts on our business reputation, customer relations and operating results. Upon expiration or termination of any of our agreements with third-party vendors, we may not be able to replace the services provided to us in a timely manner or on terms and conditions, including service levels and cost, that are favorable to us, and a transition from one vendor to another vendor could subject us to operational delays and inefficiencies until the transition is complete. Our operating results may fluctuate, which makes our results difficult to predict and could cause our results to fall short of expectations. Our revenue and operating results could vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year because of a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period to period basis may not be meaningful. In addition to other risk factors discussed in this “Risk Factors” section, factors that may contribute to the variability of our quarterly and annual results include: · our ability to retain our current listenership, build our listener base and increase listener hours; · our ability to more effectively monetize mobile listener hours, particularly as the number of listener hours on mobile devices grow; · our ability to attract and retain existing advertisers and prove that our advertising products are effective enough to justify a pricing structure that is profitable for us; · our ability to effectively manage our growth; · our ability to continue to operate under the statutory licenses set forth in the Copyright Act; · our ability to enjoy the benefit of rates negotiated below those established by the CRB in 2007; · the effects of increased competition in our business; · our ability to keep pace with changes in technology and our competitors; · interruptions in service, whether or not we are responsible for such interruptions, and any related impact on our reputation; · costs associated with defending any litigation, including intellectual property infringement litigation; · our ability to pursue, and the timing of, entry into new geographic or content markets and, if pursued, our management of this expansion; · the impact of general economic conditions on our revenue and expenses; and · changes in government regulation affecting our business. Seasonal variations in listener and advertising behavior may also cause fluctuations in our financial results. We expect to experience some effects of seasonal trends in listener behavior due to increased internet usage and sales of music-streaming devices during certain vacation and holiday periods. For example, we expect to experience increased usage during the fourth quarter of each calendar year due to the holiday season, and in the first quarter of each calendar year due to increased use of music-streaming devices received as gifts during the holiday season. We may also experience higher advertising sales during the fourth quarter of each calendar year due to greater advertiser demand during the holiday season. In addition, expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical and discretionary in nature, reflecting overall economic conditions, the economic prospects of specific advertisers or industries, budgeting constraints and buying patterns and a variety of other factors, many of which are outside our control. While we believe these seasonal trends have affected and will continue to affect our quarterly results, our trajectory of rapid growth may have overshadowed these effects to date. We believe that our business may become more seasonal in the future and that such seasonal variations in listener behavior may result in fluctuations in our financial results. Federal, state and industry regulations as well as self-regulation related to privacy and data security concerns pose the threat of lawsuits and other liability, require us to expend significant resources, and may hinder our ability and our advertisers’ ability to deliver relevant advertising. We collect and utilize demographic and other information, including personally identifiable information, from and about our listeners as they interact with our service. For example, to register for a Radioio account, our listeners must provide the following information: age, gender, zip code and e-mail address. Listeners must also provide their credit card or debit card numbers and other billing information in connection with additional service offerings. We also may collect information from our listeners when they enter information on their profile page, post comments on other listeners’ pages, use other community or social networking features that are part of our service, participate in polls or contests or sign up to receive e-mail newsletters. Further, we and third parties use tracking technologies, including “cookies” and related technologies, to help us manage and track our listeners’ interactions with our service and deliver relevant advertising. 15 Various federal and state laws and regulations govern the collection, use, retention, sharing and security of the data we receive from and about our listeners. Privacy groups and government bodies have increasingly scrutinized the ways in which companies link personal identities and data associated with particular users or devices with data collected through the internet, and we expect such scrutiny to continue to increase. Alleged violations of laws and regulations relating to privacy and data security, and any relevant claims, may expose us to potential liability and may require us to expend significant resources in responding to and defending such allegations and claims. Any claims or allegations that we have violated laws and regulations relating to privacy and data security could result in negative publicity and a loss of confidence in us by our listeners and our advertisers, and may subject us to fines by credit card companies and loss of our ability to accept credit and debit card payments, all of which could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Existing privacy-related laws and regulations are evolving and subject to potentially differing interpretations, and various federal and state legislative and regulatory bodies may expand current or enact new laws regarding privacy and data security-related matters. We may find it necessary or desirable to join self-regulatory bodies or other privacy-related organizations that require compliance with their rules pertaining to privacy and data security. We also may be bound by contractual obligations that limit our ability to collect, use, disclose, and leverage listener data and to derive economic value from it. New laws, amendments to or re-interpretations of existing laws, rules of self-regulatory bodies, industry standards and contractual obligations, as well as changes in our listeners’ expectations and demands regarding privacy and data security, may limit our ability to collect, use, and disclose, and to leverage and derive economic value from listener data. We may also be required to expend significant resources to adapt to these changes and to develop new ways to deliver relevant advertising or otherwise provide value to our advertisers. In particular, government regulators have proposed “do not track” mechanisms, and requirements that users affirmatively “opt-in” to certain types of data collection that, if enacted into law or adopted by self-regulatory bodies or as part of industry standards, could significantly hinder our ability to collect and use data relating to listeners. Restrictions on our ability to collect, access and harness listener data, or to use or disclose listener data or any profiles that we develop using such data, would in turn limit our ability to stream personalized music content to our listeners and offer targeted advertising opportunities to our advertising customers, each of which are critical to the success of our business. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, expenses to comply with privacy and security standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation, self-regulatory bodies, industry standards and contractual obligations. Increased regulation of data utilization and distribution practices, including self-regulation and industry standards could require us to modify our operations and incur significant expenses, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends on our listeners’ continued high-speed access to the internet and wireless devices and the continued reliability of the related infrastructure. Because our service is designed primarily to work over the internet, our revenue growth depends on our listeners’ low cost, high-speed access to the internet, as well as the continued maintenance and development of the internet infrastructure, including the wireless internet infrastructure. The future delivery of our service will depend on third-party internet service providers and wireless telecommunication companies expanding high-speed internet access and wireless networks, maintaining reliable networks with the necessary speed, data capacity and security, and developing complementary products and services for providing reliable and timely wired and wireless internet access and services. The success of our business depends directly on the continued accessibility, maintenance and improvement of the internet and, in particular, access to the internet through wireless infrastructure, to permit high-quality streaming of music content and provide a convenient and reliable platform for customer interaction. All of these factors are outside of our control. To the extent that the internet and the wireless internet infrastructure continue to experience an increasing number of listeners, frequency of use and expanding bandwidth requirements, the internet and wireless networks may become congested and unable to support the demands placed on them, and their performance and reliability may decline. In addition, the wireless communications companies that provide our listeners with access to the internet through wireless networks may raise their rates or impose data usage limits, which could cause our listeners to decrease their usage of our service or our listenership to decline. Any future internet or wireless network outages, interruptions, bandwidth constraints, rate increases or data usage limits could adversely affect our ability to provide service to our listeners and advertising customers. 16 Government regulation of the internet is evolving, and unfavorable developments could have an adverse affect on our operating results. We are subject to general business regulations and laws, as well as regulations and laws specific to the internet. Such laws and regulations cover taxation, user privacy, data collection and protection, copyrights, electronic contracts, sales procedures, automatic subscription renewals, credit card processing procedures, consumer protections, broadband internet access and content restrictions. We cannot guarantee that we have been or will be fully compliant in every jurisdiction, as it is not entirely clear how existing laws and regulations governing issues such as privacy, taxation and consumer protection apply to the internet. Moreover, as internet commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state and foreign agencies becomes more likely. The adoption of any laws or regulations that adversely affect the popularity or growth in use of the internet, including laws limiting internet neutrality, could decrease listener demand for our service offerings and increase our cost of doing business. Future regulations, or changes in laws and regulations or their existing interpretations or applications, could also hinder our operational flexibility, raise compliance costs and result in additional historical or future liabilities for us, resulting in adverse impacts on our business and our operating results. We could be adversely affected by regulatory restrictions on the use of mobile and other electronic devices in motor vehicles, and legal claims are possible from use of such devices while driving. Regulatory and consumer agencies have increasingly focused on distraction to drivers that may be associated with use of mobile and other devices in motor vehicles. In 2010, the U.S. Department of Transportation identified driver distraction as a top priority, and we anticipate new regulatory activity in this area. Regulatory restrictions on how drivers and passengers in automobiles may engage with devices on which our service is broadcast could adversely affect the results of our operations. In addition, concerns over driver distraction due to use of mobile and other electronic devices to access our service in motor vehicles could result in litigation and negative publicity. Possible inability to gain market acceptance of Radioio may adversely affect the Company’s advertising revenue and operating results. The Company’s ability to generate advertising revenues will depend upon the Company’s ability to gain listener acceptance of Internet radio and also the programming offered by Radioio. Advertisers may be less likely to advertise on this medium until market acceptance is established. The Company is relying upon certain intellectual property rights to achieve its operational goals. If intellectual property that the Company believes it owns is not adequately protected, others will be permitted to duplicate the technology used by the Company. In addition, other parties may challenge the Company’s ownership of its intellectual property rights. The loss of necessary technologies could require the Company to obtain other technologies or license technologies that the Company believes it owns. Rapidly changing technologies and industry changes could make Radioio obsolete. Internet radio is a relatively new development and an area that has experienced dramatic technological change over the recent past. Future development of Internet radio technologies, or of technologies involving competing services, could make Radioio obsolete. The market price of the Company’s common stock could be subject to substantial price and volume fluctuations. The Company’s common stock is thinly traded and does not have a significant market. Unusually high demand to either buy or sell the Company’s common stock could cause substantial fluctuations in its price. In addition, the issuance of additional equity to raise funds or convert debt could result in a significant dilution of the current shareholders and adversely affect the value of their investment. Limitation of Liability and Indemnification of Officers and Directors The officers and directors of the Company are required to exercise good faith and high integrity in our management affairs. The Company’s Articles of Incorporation and By Laws provide, however, that the officers and directors of the Company shall have no liability to the shareholders of the Company for losses sustained or liabilities incurred which arise from any transaction in their respective managerial capacities unless they violated their duty of loyalty, did not act in good faith, engaged in intentional misconduct or knowingly violated the law, approved an improper dividend or stock repurchase, or derived an improper benefit from the transaction. The Company’s Articles and By-Laws also provide for the indemnification by the Company of the officers and directors against any losses or liabilities they may incur as a result of the manner in which they operate the Company’s business or conduct its internal affairs, provided that in connection with these activities they act in good faith and in a manner they reasonably believe to be in, or not opposed to, the best interests of the Company, and their conduct does not constitute gross negligence, misconduct or breach of fiduciary obligations. 17 Continued Control by Current Officers and Directors The present officer and directors control approximately 22% of the outstanding shares of Common Stock, and are in a position to elect all of our Directors and otherwise control the Company, including, without limitation, authorizing the sale of equity or debt securities of the Company, the appointment of officers, and the determination of officer’s salaries. Shareholders have no cumulative voting rights. Limited Market Due To Penny Stock The Company’s common stock is a “penny stock.” The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted a number of rules to regulate penny stocks. These rules include, but are not limited to, Rules 3a5l-l, 15g-1, 15g-2, 15g-3, 15g-4, 15g-5, 15g-6 and 15g-7 under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Because our securities probably constitute penny stock within the meaning of the rules, the rules would apply to us and our securities. The rules may further affect the ability of owners of our stock to sell their securities in any market that may develop for them. There may be a limited market for penny stocks, due to the regulatory burdens on broker-dealers. The market among dealers may not be active. Investors in penny stock often are unable to sell stock back to the dealer that sold them the stock. The mark-ups or commissions charged by the broker-dealers may be greater than any profit a seller may make. Because of large dealer spreads, investors may be unable to sell the stock immediately back to the dealer at the same price the dealer sold the stock to the investor. In some cases, the stock may fall quickly in value. Investors may be unable to reap any profit from any sale of the stock, if they can sell it at all. Stockholders should be aware that, according to the Securities and Exchange Commission Release No. 34- 29093, the market for penny stocks has suffered in recent years from patterns of fraud and abuse. These patterns include: - Control of the market for the security by one or a few broker-dealers that are often related to the promoter or issuer; - Manipulation of prices through prearranged matching of purchases and sales and false and misleading press releases; - “Boiler room” practices involving high pressure sales tactics and unrealistic price projections by inexperienced sales persons; - Excessive and undisclosed bid-ask differentials and markups by selling broker-dealers; and – The wholesale dumping of the same securities by promoters and broker- dealers after prices have been manipulated to a desired level, along with the inevitable collapse of those prices with consequent investor losses. Furthermore, the penny stock designation may adversely affect the development of any public market for the Company’s shares of Common Stock or, if such a market develops, its continuation. Broker-dealers are required to personally determine whether an investment in penny stock is suitable for customers. Penny stocks are securities (i) with a price of less than five dollars per share; (ii) that are not traded on a “recognized” national exchange; (iii) whose prices are not quoted on the NASDAQ automated quotation system (NASDAQ-listed stocks must still meet requirement (i) above); or (iv) of an issuer with net tangible assets less than $2,000,000 (if the issuer has been in continuous operation for at least three years) or $5,000,000 (if in continuous operation for less than three years), or with average annual revenues of less than $6,000,000 for the last three years. Section 15(g) of the Exchange Act and Rule 15g-2 of the Commission require broker-dealers dealing in penny stocks to provide potential investors with a document disclosing the risks of penny stocks and to obtain a manually signed and dated written receipt of the document before effecting any transaction in a penny stock for the investor’s account. Potential investors in the Company’s Common Stock are urged to obtain and read such disclosure carefully before purchasing any shares that are deemed to be “penny stock.” Rule 15g-9 of the Commission requires broker-dealers in penny stocks to approve the account of any investor for transactions in such stocks before selling any penny stock to that investor. This procedure requires the broker-dealer to (i) obtain from the investor information concerning his or her financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives; (ii) reasonably determine, based on that information, that transactions in penny stocks are suitable for the investor and that the investor has sufficient knowledge and experience as to be reasonably capable of evaluating the risks of penny stock transactions; (iii) provide the investor with a written statement setting forth the basis on which the broker-dealer made the determination in (ii) above; and (iv) receive a signed and dated copy of such statement from the investor, confirming that it accurately reflects the investor’s financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives. Compliance with these requirements may make it more difficult for the Company’s stockholders to resell their shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. 