ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. Our business, financial position and future results of operations may be impacted in a materially adverse manner by risks associated with the execution of our strategic plan and the creation of a profitable and cash-flow positive business in a challenging economic environment, our ability to obtain capital or to obtain capital on terms acceptable to us, the successful integration of acquired companies into our consolidated operations, our ability to successfully manage diverse operations remotely located, our ability to successfully compete in highly competitive industries, the successful resolution of ongoing litigation, our dependence upon key managers and employees and our ability to retain them, and potential fluctuations in quarterly operating results, among other risks. Before investing in our securities, please consider the risks summarized in this paragraph and those risks discussed below. Our future results may also be impacted by other risk factors listed from time to time in our future filings with the SEC, including, but not limited to, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K and our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. General Risks Relating to Our Company The weak economic recovery may result in reduced demand for our products and services, and may cause our financial position to deteriorate. Our customers may be impacted by the weak economic recovery in the United States, constraints in the credit market and high unemployment. They may delay, curtail or cancel proposed and existing projects, thus decreasing the overall demand for our services and adversely impacting our liquidity. In addition, project owners may continue to experience difficulty in raising capital for the construction of power-generation plants and renewable fuel production facilities due to substantial limitations on the availability of credit and other uncertainties in the credit markets. Customers may be reluctant to establish new supply relationships as the condition of the economy causes demand for their products to be weak. In general, if overall economic conditions do not improve steadily, the demand for our products and services may be adversely affected. - 9 - Table of Contents We may be unable to maintain our profitability. Due primarily to the favorable operating results of GPS, we have generated income from continuing operations for five consecutive years — the fiscal years ended January 31, 2009 through 2013. As described in the risks presented below, our ability to maintain profitable continuing operations depends on many factors including the ability of the power industry services business segment to continue to obtain new construction projects and to complete its projects successfully. A substantial decline in the net revenues of GPS could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve net income in the future. Our dependence on one or a few customers could adversely affect us. The size of the energy plant construction projects of our power industry services segment frequently results in a limited number of projects contributing a substantial portion of our consolidated net revenues as described in Note 16 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Should we fail to replace projects that are completed by GPS with new projects, future net revenues and profits may be adversely affected. Our dependence on large construction contracts may result in uneven quarterly financial results. Our power industry service activities in any one fiscal quarter are typically concentrated on a few large construction projects for which we use the percentage-of-completion accounting method to determine corresponding net revenues. To a substantial extent, construction contract revenues are recognized as services are provided as measured by the amount of costs incurred. As the timing of equipment purchases, subcontractor services and other contract events may not be evenly distributed over the lives of our contracts, the amount of total contract costs may vary from quarter to quarter, creating uneven amounts of quarterly contract net revenues. In addition, the timing of contract commencements and completions may exacerbate the uneven pattern. As a result of the foregoing, future amounts of consolidated net revenues, cash flow from operations, net income and earnings per share reported on a quarterly basis may vary in an uneven pattern and may not be indicative of the operating results expected for any other quarter or for an entire fiscal year, thus rendering consecutive quarter comparisons of our consolidated operating results a less meaningful way to assess the growth of our business. Lawsuits could adversely affect our business. From time to time, we, our directors and/or certain of our current officers may be named as parties to lawsuits. A discussion of our significant lawsuits appears in Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in Note 16 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. It is not possible at this time to predict the likely outcome of these actions with certainty, and an adverse result in any of these lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on us. Litigation can involve complex factual and legal questions, proceedings may occur over several years and the outcomes are typically difficult to predict. Any claim that is successfully asserted against us could result in significant damage claims and other losses. Even if we were to prevail, any litigation could be costly and time-consuming and would divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations over multi-year periods, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We may be unsuccessful at generating internal growth which could result in an overall decline in our business. Our ability to expand by achieving profitable organic growth of the Company will be affected by, among other factors, our success in: • expanding the range of services and products we offer to customers in order to address their evolving needs; • attracting new customers; • hiring and retaining employees; and • controlling operating and overhead expenses. Many of the factors affecting our ability to generate internal growth may be beyond our control. Our strategies may not be successful and we may not be able to generate cash flow sufficient to fund our operations and to support internal growth. Our inability to achieve internal growth could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. - 10 - Table of Contents Future acquisitions and/or investments may not occur which could limit the growth of our business. We are a holding company with no operations other than our investments in GPS and SMC. The successful execution of our overall business plan could be based, in part, on our making additional acquisitions and/or investments that would provide positive cash flow to us and value to our stockholders. Additional companies meeting these criteria and that provide products and/or services to growth industries and are available for purchase at attractive prices are difficult to find. Discussions with the principal(s) of potential acquisition targets may be protracted and ultimately terminated for a variety of reasons. Due diligence investigations of attractive target companies may uncover unfavorable data. The negotiation and consummation of acquisition agreements may not be successful. We cannot readily predict the timing or size of our acquisition efforts and therefore the capital we will need for these efforts. However, it is likely that any potential future acquisition or strategic investment transaction would require the use of cash and/or shares of our common stock as components of the purchase price. Using cash for acquisitions may limit our financial flexibility and make us more likely to seek additional capital through future debt or equity financings. Our ability to obtain such additional financing in the future may depend upon prevailing capital market conditions, the strength of our future operating results and financial condition as well as conditions in our business; and those factors may affect our efforts to arrange additional financing on terms that are acceptable to us. Our ability to use shares of our common stock as future acquisition consideration may be limited by a variety of factors, including the future market price of shares of our common stock and a potential seller’s assessment of the liquidity of our common stock. If adequate funds or the use of our common stock are not available to us, or are not available on acceptable terms, we may not be able to take advantage of acquisitions or other opportunities, to make future investments, or to respond to competitive challenges. The Bank’s consent is required for acquisitions, divestitures, the participation in joint ventures and certain other investments. There can be no assurance that our Bank will consent to future transactions. If we are unable to obtain such consents, our ability to consummate acquisitions, to make investments or to enter into other arrangements for the purpose of growing our business may be limited. The integration of acquired companies may not be successful. Even if we do complete acquisitions in the future, we may not be able to successfully integrate such acquired companies with our other operations without substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial problems. Integrating acquired companies involves a number of special risks which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, including: • failure of acquired companies to achieve the results we expect; • diversion of management’s attention from operational matters; • difficulties integrating the operations and personnel of acquired companies; • inability to retain key personnel of acquired companies; • risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities; • the potential disruption of our business; and • the difficulty of maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, including an effective system of internal control over financial reporting. If one of our acquired companies suffers customer dissatisfaction or performance problems, the reputation of our entire company could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, future acquisitions could result in issuances of equity securities that would reduce our stockholders’ ownership interest, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, deferred stock-based compensation or expenses related to the valuation of goodwill or other intangible assets and the incurrence of large, immediate write-offs. We may not be able to comply with certain of our debt covenants which may interfere with our ability to successfully execute our business plan. The financing arrangements with our Bank require that we maintain compliance with certain financial covenants at each fiscal quarter-end and include an acceleration clause which allows the Bank to declare any amounts outstanding under the debt arrangements due and payable if it determines in good faith that a material adverse change has occurred in our financial condition or that of any of our subsidiaries. - 11 - Table of Contents We are currently in compliance with our debt covenants, but there can be no assurance that we will continue to be in compliance. If our performance does not result in compliance with any of our financial covenants, or if the Bank seeks to exercise its rights under the acceleration clause referred to above, we would seek to modify the financing arrangements, but there can be no assurance that the Bank would not exercise its rights and remedies under the debt arrangements, including accelerating payments of any or all outstanding senior debt. These payments would have a significantly adverse impact on our liquidity and our ability to obtain additional capital thereby jeopardizing our ability to successfully execute our business plan. As of January 31, 2013, there were no borrowings outstanding under the financing arrangements. Our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of impairment losses related to goodwill and other purchased intangible assets. When we acquire a business, we record goodwill equal to the excess amount paid for the business, including liabilities assumed, over the fair value of the net assets of the acquired business. Generally accepted accounting principles require that all business combinations be accounted for using the purchase method of accounting and that certain intangible assets acquired in a business combination be recognized as assets apart from goodwill. The balances of goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives are not amortized, but instead must be evaluated at least annually for impairment. The amounts of intangible assets that do have finite lives are amortized over their useful lives. However, should poor performance or other conditions indicate that the carrying value of a business or long-lived asset may have suffered impairment, a determination of fair value is required to be performed in the period that such conditions are noted. If the carrying value of a business or of an individual purchased intangible asset is found to exceed the corresponding fair value, an impairment loss is recorded. The aggregate carrying amount of goodwill, other purchased intangible assets with indefinite lives and long lived purchased intangible assets included in our consolidated balance sheet as of January 31, 2013 was approximately $21 million, or approximately 9% of total consolidated assets and 17% of consolidated net assets. We have continued to perform annual impairment assessments of the carrying values of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets as of November 1. Assessments of these assets as well as our long-lived assets may be conducted more frequently if we identify indications of impairment. Should the operating results of GPS or any future acquired company experience unexpected deterioration, we could be required to record significant impairment losses related to purchased intangible assets. Impairment losses, if any, would be recognized as operating expenses and would adversely affect future profitability. Loss of key personnel could prevent us from effectively managing our business. Our future success is substantially dependent on the continued service and performance of our current executive team and the senior management members of our businesses. We cannot be certain that any such individual will continue in such capacity or continue to perform at a high level for any particular period of time. Our ability to operate productively and profitably, particularly in the power services industry, may also be limited by our ability to attract, employ, retain and train skilled personnel necessary to meet our future requirements. We cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain management teams and an adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy or that our labor expenses will not increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of these skilled personnel. Labor shortages or increased labor costs could impair our ability or maintain our business or grow our net revenues. The loss of key personnel, or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees in the future, could negatively impact our ability to manage our business. Our business growth could outpace the capabilities of our senior management which could adversely affect our ability to complete the execution of our business plan. We cannot be certain that our current management team will be adequate to support our operations as they expand. Future growth could impose significant additional responsibilities on members of our senior management, including the need to recruit and integrate new senior level managers and executives. We cannot be certain that we can recruit and retain such additional managers and executives. To the extent that we are unable to attract and retain additional qualified management members in order to manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to expand our operations or execute our business plan. Our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected as a result. - 12 - Table of Contents Our actual business and financial results could differ from the estimates and assumptions that we use to prepare our consolidated financial statements, which may reduce our profits. To prepare consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles, we are required to make estimates and assumptions as of the date of the financial statements, which affect the reported values of assets and liabilities, net revenues and expenses, and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. For example, we may recognize net revenues over the life of a contract based on the proportion of costs incurred to date compared to the total costs estimated to be incurred for the entire project. Areas requiring significant estimates by our management include: • the application of the percentage-of-completion method of accounting and revenue recognition on contracts, change orders and contract claims; • the valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in connection with business combinations; • the value of goodwill and recoverability of other purchased intangible assets; • provisions for income taxes and related valuation allowances; • accruals for estimated liabilities, including litigation reserves; • provisions for uncollectible receivables; and • the determination of stock-based compensation expense. Our actual business and financial results could differ from those estimates, which may reduce our profits. Our employees work on projects that are inherently dangerous and a failure to maintain a safe work site could result in significant losses. We often work on large-scale and complex projects, frequently in geographically remote locations. Our project sites can place our employees and others near large and/or mechanized equipment, moving vehicles, dangerous processes or highly regulated materials, and in challenging environments. Safety is a primary focus of our business and is critical to our reputation. Often, we are responsible for safety on the project sites where we work. Many of our clients require that we meet certain safety criteria to be eligible to bid on contracts. We maintain programs with the primary purpose of implementing effective health, safety and environmental procedures throughout our Company. If we fail to implement appropriate safety procedures and/or if our procedures fail, our employees or others may suffer injuries. The failure to comply with such procedures, client contracts or applicable regulations could subject us to losses and liability, and adversely impact our ability to obtain projects in the future. Terrorist attacks could negatively impact the economy in the United States and the markets in which we operate. In the past, terrorist attacks have contributed to economic instability in the United States. Future acts of terrorism, violence or war could affect the markets in which we conduct operations, our business and our expectations. Armed hostilities may increase, or terrorist attacks, or responses from the United States, may lead to further acts of terrorism and civil disturbances in the United States or elsewhere, which may further contribute to economic instability in the United States. These attacks or armed conflicts may affect our operations or those of our customers or suppliers and could impact our net revenues, our production capability and our ability to complete contracts in a timely manner. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, investors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our common stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our operating results could be harmed. We devote significant attention to establishing and maintaining effective internal controls. Implementing changes to our internal controls required compliance training for our officers and employees. Substantial costs have been incurred and significant efforts have been expended by us in order to evaluate, test and remediate our internal controls over financial reporting. We cannot be certain that these present and future measures will ensure that we will successfully implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial reporting processes and related reporting requirements. - 13 - Table of Contents Any failure to implement required new or improved controls or difficulties encountered in their implementation could affect our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and could result in a breach of a covenant in our Bank financing arrangements in future periods. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. We rely on information systems to conduct our business, and failure to protect these systems against security breaches could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Additionally, if these systems fail or become unavailable for any significant period of time, our business could be harmed. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on computer hardware and software systems. Information systems are vulnerable to operational malfunctions and security breaches by computer hackers and cyber terrorists. We rely on industry accepted security measures and technology to securely maintain confidential and proprietary information retained on our information systems. However, these measures and technology may not adequately prevent unanticipated downtime or security breaches. The unavailability of the information systems or the failure of these systems to perform as anticipated for any reason could disrupt our business and could result in decreased performance and increased overhead costs, causing our business and results of operations to suffer. Any significant interruption or failure of our information systems or any significant breach of security could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Specific Risks Relating to Our Power Industry Services Failure to successfully operate our power industry services business will adversely affect us. The operations of our power industry services business conducted by GPS represent a significant portion of our net revenues and profits. The net revenues of this business segment were approximately $261 million for the year ended January 31, 2013, representing 94% of consolidated net revenues from continuing operations. Income from these operations for the year ended January 31, 2013 exceeded $38 million. Our inability to successfully manage and grow our power industry services business will adversely affect our consolidated operating results and financial condition. Intense competition in the engineering and construction industry could reduce our market share and profits. We serve markets that are highly competitive and in which a large number of multinational companies compete such as The Shaw Group Inc. (acquired by Chicago Bridge & Iron Company N.V. in February 2013), URS Corporation, SNC Lavalin Group, Inc., Kiewit Corporation, CH2M Hill Companies, Ltd., and EMCOR Group, Inc. In particular, the engineering and construction markets are highly competitive and require substantial resources and capital investment in equipment, technology and skilled personnel. Competition also places downward pressure on our contract prices and profit margins. Intense competition is expected to continue in these markets, presenting us with significant challenges in our ability to maintain strong growth rates and acceptable profit margins. If we are unable to meet these competitive challenges and replace completed projects with new customers or projects, we could lose market share to our competitors and our business could be materially adversely affected. Our backlog is subject to unexpected adjustments, delays and cancellations, and may be an uncertain indicator of future net revenues. As of January 31, 2013, the value of the construction contract backlog of GPS was $180 million compared with a backlog value of $415 million as of January 31, 2012. Projects awarded to us may remain included in our backlog for an extended period of time. In addition, project cancellations or scope adjustments may occur with respect to contracts reflected in our backlog that could reduce the dollar amount of our backlog and the net revenues and profits that we actually earn. We cannot guarantee that future net revenues projected by us based on our backlog at January 31, 2013 and subsequently awarded projects will be realized or will result in profitable operating results. As we concentrated efforts on successful performance of the power plant construction projects in our contract portfolio, only $26 million in the value of new work was added to contract backlog during the year ended January 31, 2013. However, we have been chosen to design and construct two natural-gas fired power plants in the Marcellus Shale region of Pennsylvania and we expect to execute EPC contracts for these projects during the year ending January 31, 2014. Each plant is being developed in order to provide over 800 megawatts of electricity to the power grid on the East Coast. We expect construction activity to begin on at least one of the plants in fiscal year 2014. - 14 - Table of Contents Should commencement of these projects be delayed, or not occur at all, our future results of operations, including net revenues, income from operations and net cash flows from operations, will be adversely affected, beginning in the second half of fiscal year 2014. Unsuccessful efforts to develop energy plant projects could result in write-offs. As is common in our industry, general construction contractors execute certain contracts jointly with third parties through joint ventures, limited partnerships and limited liability companies for the purpose of executing a project or program for a client, such as a government agency or a commercial enterprise, and are generally dissolved upon completion of the project or program. Under an agreement negotiated with Moxie during the year ended January 31, 2012 and amended in May 2012, we are supporting the development of two power plant projects with loans and the option to provide additional development loans and/or equity investments to cover anticipated costs of the developments. In return, Moxie has provided GPS with the right to provide construction services for the two projects under EPC Contracts. As of January 31, 2013, under authority to lend up to $9 million granted to it by our Board of Directors, GPI had invested approximately $5.5 million in cash in the two projects under development loans. Unpaid interest totaled approximately $783,000 as of January 31, 2013. To date, the activities of the Moxie Project Entities have been focused on 1) obtaining the necessary permits to build and operate the power plants and to transmit the electricity produced there to users, 2) completing an electricity supply arrangement, 3) engaging energy plant owners and other investors in negotiations for the purchase of the projects, and 4) securing permanent financing for the projects. The completion of negotiations and the necessary agreements that could assure our construction of the power plants should occur in fiscal year 2014. The commencement and completion of the planned power plants may be dependent upon the availability of financing for a project owner(s). On April 1, 2013, we announced that GPI had entered into a Consent and Intercreditor Agreement in connection with the design and construction of an 825 megawatt gas-fired power plant in Bradford County, Pennsylvania. GPI has been funding Moxie Liberty in the development of this power-plant project and has advanced approximately $3.6 million in working capital to the project. On March 28, 2013, Moxie entered into a Membership Interests Purchase Agreement with a third party investor who has agreed to provide advances for certain preconstruction costs. The consummation of the purchase of Moxie Liberty is contingent upon the third party investor securing permanent financing for the project. Should the third party investor consummate the purchase of Moxie Liberty, GPS would be engaged to design and build the plant under an EPC contract. Also, GPI would receive development success fees and repayment of the working capital advances plus accrued interest from the proceeds of the sale. There are no assurances that the ownership of either one of the Moxie Project Entities will be sold or that financing for the projects will be available. Failure to complete the planned development of the planned power plants as anticipated could result in a write-off adjustment related to the balance of construction project costs which was included in property and equipment in the amount of approximately $5.3 million as of January 31, 2013. Such an adjustment could have a material adverse impact on our operating results for a future reporting period. Future construction projects may depend on the continuing acceptability of the fracturing process in certain states. The viability of the two potential construction projects described above substantially depends on the availability of inexpensive natural gas supplies provided through the use of fracturing drilling techniques. Certain technological advancements in recent years have led to the widespread use of fracturing (“fracking”) and horizontal drilling techniques in order to reach natural gas and oil deposits previously trapped within shale rock formations deep under the earth’s surface. The new supplies are transforming the oil and gas industry in the United States. In particular, the new supplies of natural gas have depressed the price of natural gas in the United States, making the operation of natural gas-fired power plants more economically appealing. However, the process of fracking uses large volumes of highly pressurized water to break-up the shale rock formations and free the trapped natural gas and oil. This process is controversial due to concerns about the disposal of the waste water and the possible contamination of nearby water supplies. As a result, not all states permit the use of fracking. Should future evidence confirm the concerns, or should a major contamination episode occur in the future, the use of fracking may be suspended, limited, or curtailed by state and/or federal regulation. As a result, the supply of inexpensive natural gas may not be available in the future and the economic viability of gas-fired power plants may be jeopardized. A reduction in the pace of the construction of new gas-fired power plants would have a significantly adverse effect on our future operating results. - 15 - Table of Contents Interruption of power plant construction projects could adversely affect future results of operations. At any time, GPS has a limited number of construction contracts. Two projects represented over 79% of the net revenues of the power industry services business for the year ended January 31, 2013. Should any unexpected suspension, termination or delay of the work under such contracts occur, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. The nature of our engineering and construction business exposes us to potential liability claims and contract disputes which may reduce our profits. We engage in engineering and construction activities for large energy plant facilities where design, construction or systems failures can result in substantial injury or damage to third parties. In addition, the nature of our business results in owners, subcontractors and vendors occasionally presenting claims against us for recovery of costs they incurred in excess of what they expected to incur, or for which they believe they are not contractually liable. We have been and may in the future be named as a defendant in legal proceedings where parties may make a claim for damages or other remedies with respect to our projects or other matters. These claims generally arise in the normal course of our business. Note 12 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements describes a claim in the approximate amount of $6.8 million that a subcontractor made against us related to a cancelled construction project. We reached an agreement with and made payment to the subcontractor that was intended to end this matter. However, the settlement may be jeopardized by a related claim against the subcontractor. It is reasonably possible that ultimate resolution of the matter could be unfavorable to us resulting in additional loss. The amount of any additional loss could have a material negative affect on our consolidated results of operations in a future reporting period. No provision for additional loss has been recorded in the consolidated financial statements related to this matter as of January 31, 2013. If new facts become known in the future indicating that it is probable that an additional loss has been incurred by us and the amount of such loss can be reasonably estimated by us, the impact of the change will be reflected in the consolidated financial statements at that time. In accordance with customary industry practices, we maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses in order to protect against the risks we face. When it is determined that we have liability, we may not be covered by insurance or, if covered, the dollar amount of any liability may exceed our policy limits. Further, we may elect not to carry insurance if our management believes that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, we cannot insure fully against pollution and environmental risks. Our management liability insurance policies are on a “claims-made” basis covering only claims actually made during the policy period currently in effect. In addition, even where insurance is maintained for such exposures, the policies have deductibles resulting in our assuming exposure for a layer of coverage with respect to any such claims. Any liability not covered by our insurance, in excess of our insurance limits or, if covered by insurance but subject to a high deductible, could result in a significant loss for us, which claims may reduce our future profits and cash available for operations. In the future, we may bring claims against project owners for additional costs exceeding the contract price or for amounts not included in the original contract price. These types of claims occur due to matters such as owner-caused delays or changes from the initial project scope, both of which may result in additional cost. Often, these claims can be the subject of lengthy arbitration or litigation proceedings, and it is difficult to accurately predict when these claims will be fully resolved. When these types of events occur and unresolved claims are pending, we have used working capital in projects to cover cost overruns pending the resolution of the relevant claims. A failure to promptly recover on these types of claims could have a negative impact on our liquidity and profitability. Our dependence upon third parties to complete many of our contracts may adversely affect our performance under future energy plant construction contracts. Much of the work performed under our energy plant construction contracts is actually performed by third-party subcontractors we hire. We also rely on third-party equipment manufacturers or suppliers to provide much of the equipment included in an energy project and most of the materials (including concrete and steel) used in our construction projects. If we are unable to hire qualified subcontractors or find qualified equipment manufacturers or suppliers, our ability to successfully complete a project could be impaired. - 16 - Table of Contents If the amount we are required to pay for subcontractors or equipment and supplies exceeds what we have estimated, especially when we are operating under a lump sum or a fixed-price type construction contract, we may suffer losses on these contracts. If a supplier, manufacturer or subcontractor fails to provide supplies, equipment or services as required under a negotiated contract for any reason, we may be required to source these supplies, equipment or services on a delayed basis or at a higher price than anticipated which could impact contract profitability in an adverse manner. If we guarantee the timely completion or performance standards of a project, we could incur additional costs to cover our guarantee obligations. In some instances and in many of our fixed price contracts, we guarantee a customer that we will complete a project by a scheduled date. We sometimes provide that the project, when completed, will also achieve certain performance standards. If we subsequently fail to complete the project as scheduled, or if the project subsequently fails to meet guaranteed performance standards, we may be held responsible for cost impacts to the customer resulting from any delay or modifications to the plant in order to achieve the performance standards, generally in the form of contractually agreed-upon liquidated damages. If these events would occur, the total costs of the project would exceed our original estimate, and we could experience reduced profits or a loss for that project. If financing for new energy plants is unavailable, construction of such plants may not occur and we may lose any investment made in the projects. Traditional gas-fired power plants have been constructed typically by large utility companies. However, to a large extent, the construction of new energy plants, including alternative and renewable energy facilities, is conducted by private investment groups. The challenge for these types of project owners to secure and maintain financing in the midst of the current credit crisis continues to be significant. Should debt financing for the construction of new energy facilities, including alternative or renewable energy plants, not be available, investors may not be able to invest in such projects, thereby adversely affecting the likelihood that GPS will obtain contracts to construct such plants. We are seeing a number of new business opportunities that include an opportunity to make an investment in the ownership of the new project, at least during the development phase of the project, in order to improve the probability of an EPC contract award. Because we believe in the strength of our balance sheet, we are willing to consider the opportunities that include reasonable and manageable risks. Failure of a project owner to obtain such financing will make it likely that we will not recover the amount of any investment made by us in the project. The inability of our customers to receive or to avoid delay in receiving the applicable regulatory approvals relating to projects may result in lost or postponed net revenues for us. The commencement and/or execution of many of the construction projects performed by our power industry services segment are subject to numerous regulatory permitting processes. Applications for permits may be opposed by individuals or environmental groups, resulting in delays and possible non-issuance of the permits. There are no assurances that our customers will obtain the necessary permits for these projects, or that the necessary permits will be obtained in order to allow construction work to proceed as scheduled. Failure to commence or complete construction work as anticipated could have material adverse impacts on our future net revenues, profits and cash flows from operations. Our use of the percentage-of-completion method of accounting could result in a reduction or reversal of previously recorded net revenues or profits. Under our accounting procedures, we measure and recognize a large portion of our net revenues under the percentage-of-completion accounting methodology. This methodology allows us to recognize net revenues and contract profits ratably over the life of a contract by comparing the amount of the costs incurred to date against the total amount of costs expected to be incurred. The effects of revisions to net revenues and estimated costs are recorded when the amounts are known and can be reasonably estimated, and these revisions can occur at any time and could be material. Given the uncertainties associated with these types of contracts, it is possible for actual costs to vary from estimates previously made, which may result in reductions or reversals of previously recorded net revenues and profits. - 17 - Table of Contents Future bonding requirements may adversely affect our ability to compete for new energy plant construction projects. Our construction contracts frequently require that we obtain payment and performance bonds from surety companies on behalf of project owners as a condition to the award of such contracts. Surety market conditions have in the last few years become more difficult as a result of significant losses incurred by many surety companies, both in the construction industry as well as in certain large corporate bankruptcies. Consequently, less overall bonding capacity is available in the market than in the past, and surety bonds have become more expensive and restrictive. Historically, we have had a strong bonding capacity but, under standard terms in the surety market, surety companies issue bonds on a project-by-project basis and can decline to issue bonds at any time or require the posting of additional collateral as a condition to issuing any bonds. Current or future market conditions, changes in our surety’s assessment of its own operating and financial risk or larger future projects could cause our surety company to decline to issue, or substantially reduce the amount of, bonds for our work and could increase our bonding costs. These actions can be taken on short notice. If our surety company were to limit or eliminate our access to bonding, our alternatives would include seeking bonding capacity from other surety companies, joint venturing with other construction firms, increasing business with clients that do not require bonds and posting other forms of collateral for project performance, such as letters of credit, or cash. We may be unable to make alternative arrangements in a timely manner, on acceptable terms, or at all. Accordingly, if we were to experience an interruption, reduction or other alteration in the availability of bonding capacity, we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects. As we bear the risk of cost overruns in the completion of our construction contracts, we may experience reduced profits or, in some cases, losses under these contracts if actual costs exceed our estimates. We conduct our business under various types of contractual arrangements including fixed price contracts. We bear a significant portion of the risk for cost overruns on these types of contracts where contract prices are established in part on cost and scheduling estimates. Our estimates may be based on a number of assumptions about future economic conditions and the future prices and availability of labor, equipment and materials, and other exigencies. From time to time, we may also assume a project’s technical risk, which means that we may have to satisfy certain technical requirements of a project despite the fact that at the time of project award, we may not have previously produced the system or product in question. Unexpected or increased costs may occur due to the following factors among others: • shortages of skilled labor, materials and energy plant equipment including power turbines; • unanticipated escalation in the price of construction commodities; • unscheduled delays in the delivery of ordered materials and equipment; • engineering problems, including those relating to the commissioning of newly designed equipment; • declines in the productivity of construction workers; • work stoppages; • weather interference; • inability to develop or non-acceptance of new technologies to produce alternative fuel sources; and • the difficulty in obtaining necessary permits or approvals. If our estimates prove inaccurate, or circumstances change, cost overruns may occur and we could experience reduced profits, or in some cases, incur a loss on a particular project. If we are unable to collect amounts billed to project owners as scheduled, our cash flows may be materially and adversely affected. Many of our contracts require us to satisfy specified design, engineering, procurement or construction milestones in order to receive payment for work completed or equipment or supplies procured prior to achievement of the applicable contract milestone. As a result, under these types of arrangements, we may incur significant costs or perform significant amounts of services prior to receipt of payment. If the customer determines not to proceed with the completion of the project, delays in making payment of billed amounts or defaults on its payment obligations, we may face delays or other difficulties in collecting payment of amounts due to us for the costs previously incurred or for the amounts previously expended to purchase equipment or supplies. Such problems may impact the planned cash flows of affected projects and result in unanticipated reductions in the amounts of future cash flows from operations. - 18 - Table of Contents If the development of renewable energy sources does not occur, the demand for our construction services could decline. The expected increase in momentum towards more environmentally friendly power generation facilities has not occurred at the pace expected prior to the latest recession. The federal government has failed to pass comprehensive energy legislation, including incentives or mandates for the retirement of existing coal burning power plants and caps on the volume of carbon emissions. At present, there is no bipartisan agreement regarding the long-term future of government incentives for sources of renewable power in either legislative house of Congress. With the future long-term availability of renewable energy tax incentives unknown and the development pipeline depleted, potential energy project developers and investors are not making commitments related to new renewable energy generation facilities. As a result, the likelihood of our booking additional wind and solar power projects next year is uncertain. Although certain coal-fired power plants have been shut down and the demand for coal has been adversely affected by the inexpensive supply of natural gas in the United States, existing coal plants are proving to be a challenge to retrofit or replace. Coal prices are widely considered to be stable and certain states see the availability of inexpensive, coal-fired electricity as a key driver of economic growth. New regulations regarding air pollution are being promulgated by states and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”). However, these measures are subject to a number of legal challenges. In early 2012, a federal appeals court upheld the EPA’s greenhouse gas regulations, affirming the EPA’s finding that greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide endanger public health and likely have been responsible for global warming. In August 2012, the same appeals court struck down an EPA rule that placed tight curbs on coal-fired power plant emissions across state lines. The extent to which regulations issued by the Environmental Protection Agency, that are intended to make smokestack emissions cleaner, will accelerate the pace of coal-fired power plant retirements is not yet known. Should government investment incentives fail to be extended into the future or should anti-pollution regulations be repealed, the pace of the development of alternative renewable energy sources may slow, thereby reducing the future opportunities for GPS to construct such plants. We could be subject to compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that would add costs to our business. Our operations are subject to compliance with federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those relating to discharges to air, water and land, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste, and the cleanup of properties affected by hazardous substances. Certain environmental laws impose substantial penalties for non-compliance and others, such as the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, impose strict, retroactive, joint and several liability upon persons responsible for releases of hazardous substances. We continually evaluate whether we must take additional steps to ensure compliance with environmental laws, however, there can be no assurance that these requirements will not change and that compliance will not adversely affect our operations in the future. Specific Risks Relating to Our Telecommunications Infrastructure Services Business Failure to replace significant customers could adversely affect our SMC business. Historically, significant portions of the net revenues of SMC have been provided by a few major customers under master service-type contracts with multi-year terms. The net revenues of this business segment for the last two years have been elevated by the execution of tasks awarded to SMC under a two-year contract with Howard County, Maryland. For the fiscal years ended January 31, 2013 and 2012, this contract provided approximately 39% and 25% of this segment’s net revenues, respectively. During fiscal year 2014, we expect activity under this program to decline significantly. In recent years, we lost the business with Verizon as our master agreement expired without renewal. The prime contract that EDS had with the federal government also expired pursuant to which we performed inside plant services at various government installations throughout the mid-Atlantic region. A significant challenge for SMC is the replacement of the lost business provided under its expiring multi-year arrangements. Over the past few years, SMC has had a certain amount of success in obtaining projects from new customers in the midst of a very difficult economic environment. However, despite the successes of recent business development efforts, we cannot provide assurance that SMC will maintain its current level of net revenues for the fiscal year ending January 31, 2014. - 19 - Table of Contents If we fail to compete successfully against current or future competitors, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We operate in highly competitive markets. We compete with service providers ranging from small regional companies which service a single market, to larger firms servicing multiple regions, as well as large national and multi-national entities. In addition, there are few barriers to entry in the telecommunications infrastructure industry. As a result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become one of our competitors. Competition in the telecommunications infrastructure industry depends on a number of factors, including price. Certain of our competitors may have lower overhead cost structures than we do and may, therefore, be able to provide their services at lower rates than we can. In addition, some of our competitors are larger and have significantly greater financial resources than we do. Our competitors may develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are superior in price and quality to our services. Similarly, we may not be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position within our industry. We may also face competition from the in-house service organizations of our existing or prospective customers. A significant portion of our business involves providing services, directly or indirectly as a subcontractor, to the federal government under government contracts. The federal government may limit the competitive bidding on any contract under a small business or minority set-aside, in which bidding is limited to companies meeting the criteria for a small business or minority business, respectively, which may exclude us from consideration. We may not be able to compete successfully against our competitors in the future. If we fail to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Rapid technological change and/or customer consolidations could reduce the demand for the telecommunication services we provide. The telecommunications infrastructure industry is undergoing rapid change as a result of technological advances that could in certain cases reduce the demand for our services or otherwise negatively impact our business. New or developing technologies could displace the wire-line systems used for voice, video and data transmissions, and improvements in existing technology may allow telecommunications companies to significantly improve their networks without physically upgrading them. In addition, consolidation, competition or capital constraints in the utility, telecommunications or computer networking industries may result in reduced spending or the loss of one or more of our customers. Our substantial dependence upon fixed price contracts may expose us to losses in the event that we fail to accurately estimate the costs that we will incur to complete such projects. We currently generate, and expect to continue to generate, a significant portion of our net revenues under fixed price contracts. We must estimate the costs of completing a particular project to bid for these fixed price contracts. Although historically we have been able to estimate costs accurately, the cost of labor and materials may, from time to time, vary from costs originally estimated. These variations, along with other risks inherent in performing fixed price contracts, may cause actual net revenues and gross profits for a project to differ from those we originally estimated and could result in reduced profitability or losses on projects. Depending upon the size of a particular project, variations from the estimated contract costs could have a significant impact on our operating results for any fiscal quarter or year. Compliance with government regulations may increase the costs of our operations, expose us to substantial civil and criminal penalties in the event that we violate applicable law, and include the right of customers to terminate contracted work for convenience. We provide, either directly as a contractor or indirectly as a sub-contractor, products and services to the federal and local governments under government contracts. These contracts and related customer orders subject us to various laws and regulations covering government contractors and subcontractors, which generally are more restrictive than for non-government contractors. We could be subject to 1) examinations by government auditors and investigators, from time to time, to ensure compliance and review costs, and 2) contract clauses permitting government customers to terminate contracted work for convenience. Violations may result in costs disallowed, and substantial civil or criminal liabilities (including, in severe cases, denial of future contracts). A loss or interruption in our ability to perform work for federal and local government agencies could have a material adverse effect on our business. - 20 - Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Securities Our acquisition strategy may result in dilution to our stockholders. Our business strategy calls for the strategic acquisition of other businesses. We anticipate that future acquisitions will require cash and issuances of our capital stock, including our common stock. To the extent we are required to pay cash for any acquisition, we anticipate that we would be required to obtain additional equity and/or debt financing. Equity financing would result in dilution for our then current stockholders. Stock issuances and financing, if obtained, may not be on terms favorable to us and could result in substantial dilution to our stockholders at the time(s) of these stock issuances and financings. Our officers, directors and certain unaffiliated stockholders have substantial control over Argan, Inc. As of January 31, 2013, our executive officers and directors as a group owned approximately 11% of our voting shares giving effect to an aggregate of 373,224 shares of common stock that may be purchased upon the exercise of stock options held by our executive officers and directors (and deemed exercisable at January 31, 2013), and 744,993 shares beneficially owned by William F. Griffin, Jr. (a founder and the current chief executive officer of GPS and member of our Board of Directors). An additional 4% of the outstanding shares are controlled by Allen & Company entities (“Allen”). One of our independent directors is an officer of Allen. In addition, four unaffiliated stockholders owned approximately 27% of our voting shares in total. The approximate individual beneficial ownership percentages as of January 31, 2013 were 9%, 6%, 6% and 5%, respectively. These small groups of stockholders may have significant influence over corporate actions such as an amendment to our certificate of incorporation, the consummation of any merger, or the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, and may substantially influence the election of directors and other actions requiring stockholder approval. As our common stock is thinly traded, the stock price may be volatile and investors may have difficulty disposing of their investments at prevailing market prices. Our common stock is listed for trading on the NYSE MKT stock exchange (formerly the American Stock Exchange) and trades under the symbol AGX. Despite the listing on this national stock exchange, our common stock remains thinly and sporadically traded and no assurances can be given that a larger market will ever develop, or if developed, that it will be maintained. We may not pay cash dividends in the future. Historically, we have not paid cash dividends on our common stock and have retained earnings to finance the development and expansion of our business. However, in November 2012, we paid to stockholders a special cash dividend of $0.60 per share of common stock reflecting our board of directors’ confidence in the strong financial performance of GPS and the related cash flow. In November 2011, we paid a special cash dividend of $0.50 per share. Annually, our board of directors intends to evaluate the Company’s ongoing operational and financial performance in determining what role strategically aligned dividends should play in creating shareholder value. There can be no assurance that these evaluations will result in the payment of cash dividends in the future. We may issue preferred stock with rights that are superior to our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation, as amended, permits our board of directors to authorize the issuance of up to 500,000 shares of preferred stock and to designate the terms of the preferred stock. The issuance of shares of preferred stock by us could adversely affect the rights of holders of common stock by, among other factors, establishing dividend rights, liquidation rights and voting rights that are superior to the rights of the holders of the common stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and Delaware law could deter takeover attempts. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and Delaware law could delay, prevent, or make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us. Among other things, as stated above, our board of directors may issue up to 500,000 shares of our preferred stock and may determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting and conversion rights, of these shares of preferred stock. In addition, Delaware law limits transactions between us and persons that acquire significant amounts of our stock without approval of our board of directors. - 21 - Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 