ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. Our business, financial position and future results of operations may be impacted in a materially adverse manner by risks associated with the execution of our strategic plan and the creation of a profitable and cash-flow positive business in a challenging economic environment, our ability to obtain capital or to obtain capital on terms acceptable to us, the successful integration of acquired companies into our consolidated operations, our ability to successfully manage diverse operations remotely located, our ability to successfully compete in highly competitive industries, the successful resolution of ongoing litigation, our dependence upon key managers and employees and our ability to retain them, and potential fluctuations in quarterly operating results, among other risks. Before investing in our securities, please consider the risks summarized in this paragraph and those risks discussed below. Our future results may also be impacted by other risk factors listed from time to time in our future filings with the SEC, including, but not limited to, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K and our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. General Risks Relating to Our Company The weak economic recovery may result in reduced demand for our products and services, and may cause our financial position to deteriorate. Our customers may be impacted by the weak economic recovery in the U.S. from a depressed housing market, constraints in the credit market and high unemployment. They may delay, curtail or cancel proposed and existing projects; thus decreasing the overall demand for our products and services and adversely impacting our liquidity. In addition, project owners may continue to experience difficulty in raising capital for the construction of power-generation plants and renewable fuel production facilities due to substantial limitations on the availability of credit and other uncertainties in the credit markets. Customers may be reluctant to establish new supply relationships as the condition of the economy causes demand for their products to be weak. In general, if overall economic conditions do not improve steadily, the demand for our products and services may be adversely affected. In addition, certain customers may find it increasingly difficult to pay invoices for our products and services on a timely basis, which could lead to an increase in our accounts receivable and/or to increased write-offs of uncollectible invoices. Any inability to collect our invoices when due could have adverse impacts on our future results of operations and liquidity. We have incurred losses in the past; we may experience additional losses in the future. The Company has incurred losses in the past. Although we reported consolidated net income of approximately $7.0 million and $10.0 million for our fiscal years ended January 31, 2010 and 2009, we incurred a net loss of approximately $3.2 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2008. Additional future losses may occur in one or more segments of our business. If net losses were to recur, we could experience cash flow and liquidity shortfalls having adverse affects on our ability to successfully execute our business plans. Our dependence on one or a few customers could adversely affect us. The size of the energy plant construction projects of our power industry services segment frequently results in one or a few project owners contributing a substantial portion of our consolidated net revenues as described in Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements. In addition, our telecommunications infrastructure business has been based to a significant degree on our relationships with three primary customers and the net sales of our nutritional products business are derived from orders placed by a few key customers. Similarly, our backlog of business at any time frequently reflects contracts and unfilled purchase orders received from only a few major customers. Should we fail to replace projects that are completed by GPS with new projects or should we lose any one of the few key customers of SMC or VLI, future net revenues and profits may be adversely affected. Our dependence on large construction contracts may result in uneven quarterly financial results. Our power industry service activities in any one fiscal quarter are typically concentrated on a few large construction projects for which we use the percentage-of-completion accounting method to determine contract revenues. To a substantial extent, construction contract revenues are recognized as services are provided as measured by the amount of costs incurred. As the timing of equipment purchases, subcontractor services and other contract events may not be evenly distributed over the lives of our contracts, the amount of total contract costs may vary from quarter to quarter, creating uneven amounts of quarterly contract net revenues. In addition, the timing of contract commencements and completions may exacerbate the uneven pattern. As a result of the foregoing, future amounts of consolidated net revenues, cash flow from operations, net income and earnings per share reported on a quarterly basis may vary in an uneven pattern and may not be indicative of the operating results expected for any other quarter or for an entire fiscal year, thus rendering consecutive quarter comparisons of our consolidated operating results a less meaningful way to assess the growth of our business. - 10 - Table of Contents Lawsuits could adversely affect our business. From time to time, we, our directors and/or certain of our current officers are named as a party to lawsuits. A discussion of our material lawsuits appears in Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements. It is not possible at this time to predict the likely outcome of these actions with certainty, and an adverse result in any of these lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on us. Litigation can involve complex factual and legal questions and its outcome is uncertain. Any claim that is successfully asserted against us could result in significant damage claims and other losses. Even if we were to prevail, any litigation could be costly and time-consuming and would divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We may be unsuccessful at generating internal growth which could result in an overall decline in our business. Our ability to expand by achieving profitable organic growth of the Company will be affected by, among other factors, our success in: • expanding the range of services and products we offer to customers in order to address their evolving needs; • attracting new customers; • hiring and retaining employees; and • controlling operating and overhead expenses. Many of the factors affecting our ability to generate internal growth may be beyond our control. Our strategies may not be successful and we may not be able to generate cash flow sufficient to fund our operations and to support internal growth. Our inability to achieve internal growth could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Future acquisitions and/or investments may not occur which could limit the growth of our business. We are a holding company with no operations other than our investments in GPS, SMC, and VLI. The successful execution of our overall business plan could be based, in part, on our making additional acquisitions and/or investments that would provide positive cash flow to us and value to our stockholders. Additional companies meeting these criterion, and that provide products and/or services to growth industries and are available for purchase at attractive prices may be difficult to find. Further, efforts to conduct due diligence investigations of attractive target companies and to negotiate acquisition and related agreements may not be successful. For example, during the current year, we announced that we had signed a nonbinding letter of intent to purchase United American Steel Constructors, Inc. (“UNAMSCO”), a private company operating affiliated construction companies specializing in the erection of steel structures. UNAMSCO reported annual revenues of approximately $84 million for its fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 with solid margins. However, after a multi-month period of due diligence and negotiation, the discussions were discontinued and the parties mutually terminated the related nonbinding letter of intent on February 16, 2010. We cannot readily predict the timing or size of our acquisition efforts and therefore the capital we will need for these efforts. However, it is likely that any potential future acquisition or strategic investment transaction would require the use of cash and/or shares of our common stock as components of the purchase price. Using cash for acquisitions may limit our financial flexibility and make us more likely to seek additional capital through future debt or equity financings. Our ability to obtain such additional financing in the future may depend upon prevailing capital market conditions, the strength of our future operating results and financial condition as well as conditions in our business; and those factors may affect our efforts to arrange additional financing on terms that are acceptable to us. Our ability to use shares of our common stock as future acquisition consideration may be limited by a variety of factors, including the future market price of shares of our common stock and a potential seller’s assessment of the liquidity of our common stock. If adequate funds or the use of our common stock are not available to us, or are not available on acceptable terms, we may not be able to take advantage of acquisitions or other opportunities, to make future investments, or to respond to competitive challenges. We have pledged the majority of our assets to secure our financing arrangements with Bank of America (the “Bank”). The Bank’s consent is required for acquisitions, divestitures, the participation in joint ventures and certain other investments. There can be no assurance that our Bank will consent to future transactions. If we are unable to obtain such consents, our ability to consummate acquisitions, to make investments or to enter into other arrangements for the purpose of growing our business may be limited. - 11 - Table of Contents We may not be able to comply with certain of our debt covenants which may interfere with our ability to successfully execute our business plan. The financing arrangements with our Bank require that we maintain compliance with certain financial covenants at each fiscal quarter-end and include an acceleration clause which allows the Bank to declare amounts outstanding under the debt arrangements due and payable if it determines in good faith that a material adverse change has occurred in our financial condition or that of any of our subsidiaries. We are currently in compliance with our debt covenants, but there can be no assurance that we will continue to be in compliance. If our performance does not result in compliance with any of our financial covenants, or if the Bank seeks to exercise its rights under the acceleration clause referred to above, we would seek to modify the financing arrangements, but there can be no assurance that the Bank would not exercise its rights and remedies under the debt arrangements, including accelerating payments of all outstanding senior debt. These payments would have a significantly adverse impact on our liquidity and our ability to obtain additional capital thereby jeopardizing our ability to successfully execute our business plan. The integration of acquired companies may not be successful. Even if we do complete acquisitions in the future, we may not be able to successfully integrate such acquired companies with our other operations without substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial problems. Integrating acquired companies involves a number of special risks which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, including: • failure of acquired companies to achieve the results we expect; • diversion of management’s attention from operational matters; • difficulties integrating the operations and personnel of acquired companies; • inability to retain key personnel of acquired companies; • risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities; • the potential disruption of our business; and • the difficulties of maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies. If one of our acquired companies suffers customer dissatisfaction or performance problems, the reputation of our entire company could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, future acquisitions could result in issuances of equity securities that would reduce our stockholders’ ownership interest, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, deferred stock-based compensation or expenses related to the valuation of goodwill or other intangible assets and the incurrence of large, immediate write-offs. Our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of additional impairment losses related to goodwill and other purchased intangible assets. When we acquire a business, we record goodwill equal to the excess amount paid for the business, including liabilities assumed, over the fair value of the net assets of the acquired business. Generally accepted accounting principles require that all business combinations be accounted for using the purchase method of accounting and that certain intangible assets acquired in a business combination be recognized as assets apart from goodwill. The balances of goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives are not amortized, but instead must be tested at least annually for impairment. The amounts of intangible assets that do have finite lives are amortized over their useful lives. However, should poor performance or other conditions indicate that the carrying value of a business or long-lived asset may have suffered impairment, a determination of fair value is required to be performed in the period that such conditions are noted. If the carrying value of a business or of an individual purchased intangible asset is found to exceed the corresponding fair value, an impairment loss is recorded. The aggregate carrying amount of goodwill, other purchased intangible assets with indefinite lives and long lived purchased intangible assets included in our consolidated balance sheet as of January 31, 2010 was approximately $21.7 million, or approximately 18.1% of total consolidated assets and 24.6% of consolidated net assets. We perform annual impairment assessments of the carrying values of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets as of November 1. Assessments of these assets as well as our long-lived assets may be conducted more frequently if we identify indications of impairment. We completed a series of impairment assessments at different points over the last three years and recorded impairment losses reflecting the declining financial performances of VLI and SMC. The aggregate impairment losses relating to goodwill, other purchased intangible assets and the fixed assets of these businesses were $3.1 million and $6.8 million in the fiscal years ended January 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. These losses were reflected in the reported consolidated operating results for the corresponding fiscal years and essentially eliminated the carrying values of the corresponding assets. Should the operating results of GPS or any future acquired company experience unexpected deterioration, we could be required to record additional significant impairment losses related to purchased intangible assets. Impairment losses, if any, would be recognized as operating expenses and would adversely affect future profitability. - 12 - Table of Contents Our business growth could outpace the capabilities of our senior management which could adversely affect our ability to complete the execution of our business plan. We cannot be certain that our current management team will be adequate to support our operations as they expand. Future growth could impose significant additional responsibilities on members of our senior management, including the need to recruit and integrate new senior level managers and executives. We cannot be certain that we can recruit and retain such additional managers and executives. To the extent that we are unable to attract and retain additional qualified management members in order to manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to expand our operations or execute our business plan. Our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected as a result. Loss of key personnel could prevent us from effectively managing our business. Our future success is substantially dependent on the continued service and performance of our current executive team and the senior management members of our businesses. We cannot be certain that any such individual will continue in such capacity or continue to perform at a high level for any particular period of time. Our ability to operate productively and profitably, particularly in the power services industry, may also be limited by our ability to attract, employ, retain and train skilled personnel necessary to meet our future requirements. We cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain management teams and an adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy or that our labor expenses will not increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of these skilled personnel. Labor shortages or increased labor costs could impair our ability or maintain our business or grow our net revenues. The loss of key personnel, or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees in the future, could negatively impact our ability to manage our business. Our actual business and financial results could differ from the estimates and assumptions that we use to prepare our consolidated financial statements, which may reduce our profits. To prepare consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles, we are required to make estimates and assumptions as of the date of the financial statements, which affect the reported values of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. For example, we may recognize revenue over the life of a contract based on the proportion of costs incurred to date compared to the total costs estimated to be incurred for the entire project. Areas requiring significant estimates by our management include: • the application of the percentage-of-completion method of accounting and revenue recognition on contracts, change orders and contract claims; • the valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in connection with business combinations; • the value of goodwill and recoverability of other purchased intangible assets; • provisions for income taxes and related valuation allowances; • accruals for estimated liabilities, including litigation reserves; • provisions for uncollectible receivables, obsolete and overstocked inventories, and recoveries of costs from subcontractors, vendors and others; and • the valuation of stock-based compensation expense. Our actual business and financial results could differ from those estimates, which may reduce our profits. Our employees work on projects that are inherently dangerous and a failure to maintain a safe work site could result in significant losses. We often work on large-scale and complex projects, frequently in geographically remote locations. Our project sites can place our employees and others near large and/or mechanized equipment, moving vehicles, dangerous processes or highly regulated materials, and in challenging environments. Safety is a primary focus of our business and is critical to our reputation. Often, we are responsible for safety on the project sites where we work. Many of our clients require that we meet certain safety criteria to be eligible to bid on contracts. We maintain programs with the primary purpose of implementing effective health, safety and environmental procedures throughout our Company. If we fail to implement appropriate safety procedures and/or if our procedures fail, our employees or others may suffer injuries. The failure to comply with such procedures, client contracts or applicable regulations could subject us to losses and liability, and adversely impact our ability to obtain projects in the future. - 13 - Table of Contents If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, investors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our common stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our operating results could be harmed. We devote significant attention to establishing and maintaining effective internal controls. Implementing changes to our internal controls required compliance training of our officers and employees. Over the last two years, substantial costs have been incurred and significant efforts have been expended in order to evaluate, test and remediate our internal controls over financial reporting. We cannot be certain that these measures and future measures will ensure that we will successfully implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial reporting processes and related reporting requirements. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls or difficulties encountered in their implementation could affect our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and could result in a breach of a covenant in our Bank financing arrangements in future periods. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. We rely on information systems to conduct our business, and failure to protect these systems against security breaches could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Additionally, if these systems fail or become unavailable for any significant period of time, our business could be harmed. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on computer hardware and software systems. Information systems are vulnerable to operational malfunctions and security breaches by computer hackers and cyber terrorists. We rely on industry accepted security measures and technology to securely maintain confidential and proprietary information maintained on our information systems. However, these measures and technology may not adequately prevent unanticipated downtime or security breaches. The unavailability of the information systems or the failure of these systems to perform as anticipated for any reason could disrupt our business and could result in decreased performance and increased overhead costs, causing our business and results of operations to suffer. Any significant interruption or failure of our information systems or any significant breach of security could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Specific Risks Relating to Our Power Industry Services Failure to successfully operate our power industry services business will adversely affect us. The operations of our power industry services business conducted by GPS represent a significant portion of our net revenues and profits. The net revenues of this business segment were $209.8 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010, representing 90.3% of consolidated net revenues. Income from these operations for the current fiscal year was $14.4 million. Consolidated income from operations for the current year was $8.6 million, reflecting the operating loss incurred by our nutritional products business and corporate expenses. Our inability to successfully manage and grow our power industry services business will adversely affect our consolidated operating results and financial condition. Intense competition in the engineering and construction industry could reduce our market share and profits. We serve markets that are highly competitive and in which a large number of multinational companies compete such as Fluor Corporation, The Shaw Group Inc., URS Corporation (the Washington Division), SNC Lavalin Group, Inc., Foster Wheeler AG, CH2M HILL Companies, Ltd., and EMCOR Group, Inc. In particular, the engineering and construction markets are highly competitive and require substantial resources and capital investment in equipment, technology and skilled personnel. Competition also places downward pressure on our contract prices and profit margins. Intense competition is expected to continue in these markets, presenting us with significant challenges in our ability to maintain strong growth rates and acceptable profit margins. If we are unable to meet these competitive challenges and replace completed projects with new customers or projects, we could lose market share to our competitors and our business could be materially adversely affected. Interruption of power plant construction projects could adversely affect future results of operations. At any time, GPS has a limited number of construction contracts. For example, one customer represented approximately 96.5% of the net revenues of the power industry services business for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010. Should any unexpected suspension, termination or delay of the work under such contracts occur, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. - 14 - Table of Contents Our backlog is subject to unexpected adjustments, delays and cancellations, and may be an uncertain indicator of future net revenues. As of January 31, 2010, our construction contract backlog was approximately $300 million including approximately $210 million related to the Sentinel Project that was awarded to GPS by CPV in July 2008. We expect that our performance of the work contemplated by the contract backlog of GPS will earn a substantial portion of this potential source of net revenues in the fiscal year ending January 31, 2011. However, GPS has received only a limited notice to proceed on the Sentinel Project. Projects may remain included in our backlog for an extended period of time. In addition, project cancellations or scope adjustments may occur with respect to contracts reflected in our backlog that could reduce the dollar amount of our backlog and the net revenues and profits that we actually earn. We cannot guarantee that the net revenues projected based on our backlog at January 31, 2010 will be realized or profitable. The nature of our engineering and construction business exposes us to potential liability claims and contract disputes which may reduce our profits. We engage in engineering and construction activities for large energy plant facilities where design, construction or systems failures can result in substantial injury or damage to third parties. In addition, the nature of our business results in clients, subcontractors and vendors occasionally presenting claims against us for recovery of cost they incurred in excess of what they expected to incur, or for which they believe they are not contractually liable. We have been and may in the future be named as a defendant in legal proceedings where parties may make a claim for damages or other remedies with respect to our projects or other matters. These claims generally arise in the normal course of our business. Note 12 to our accompanying consolidated financial statements describes a matter which includes a claim in the approximate amount of $6.8 million that a subcontractor has made against a payment bond issued on our behalf related to a cancelled construction project. Assurance cannot be provided that we will be successful in defending against this claim. It is reasonably possible that resolution of the matters discussed above could occur in a manner or with a decision unfavorable to us. Any resulting loss could have a material negative affect on our consolidated results of operations in a future reporting period. No provision for loss, if any, has been recorded in the consolidated financial statements related to this matter as of January 31, 2010. If new facts become known in the future indicating that it is probable that a loss has been incurred by us and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated by us, the impact of the change will be reflected in the consolidated financial statements at that time. In accordance with customary industry practices, we maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses in order to protect against the risks we face. When it is determined that we have liability, we may not be covered by insurance or, if covered, the dollar amount of any liability may exceed our policy limits. Further, we may elect not to carry insurance if our management believes that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, we cannot insure fully against pollution and environmental risks. Our professional liability coverage is on a “claims-made” basis covering only claims actually made during the policy period currently in effect. In addition, even where insurance is maintained for such exposures, the policies have deductibles resulting in our assuming exposure for a layer of coverage with respect to any such claims. Any liability not covered by our insurance, in excess of our insurance limits or, if covered by insurance but subject to a high deductible, could result in a significant loss for us, which claims may reduce our future profits and cash available for operations. In the future, we may bring claims against project owners for additional costs exceeding the contract price or for amounts not included in the original contract price. These types of claims occur due to matters such as owner-caused delays or changes from the initial project scope, both of which may result in additional cost. Often, these claims can be the subject of lengthy arbitration or litigation proceedings, and it is difficult to accurately predict when these claims will be fully resolved. When these types of events occur and unresolved claims are pending, we have used working capital in projects to cover cost overruns pending the resolution of the relevant claims. A failure to promptly recover on these types of claims could have a negative impact on our liquidity and profitability. If we guarantee the timely completion or performance standards of a project, we could incur additional costs to cover our guarantee obligations. In some instances and in many of our fixed price contracts, we guarantee a customer that we will complete a project by a scheduled date. We sometimes provide that the project, when completed, will also achieve certain performance standards. If we subsequently fail to complete the project as scheduled, or if the project subsequently fails to meet guaranteed performance standards, we may be held responsible for cost impacts to the customer resulting from any delay or modifications to the plant in order to achieve the performance standards, generally in the form of contractually agreed-upon liquidated damages. If these events would occur, the total costs of the project would exceed our original estimate, and we could experience reduced profits or a loss for that project. - 15 - Table of Contents If financing for new energy plants is unavailable, construction of such plants may not occur. Traditional gas-fired power plants have been constructed typically by large utility companies. However, to a large extent, the construction of new energy plants, including alternative and renewable energy facilities, is conducted by private investment groups. For example, investors in the ownership of certain biodiesel plants constructed by us included The Carlyle Group and Goldman Sachs. The owner of the Sentinel project described above is Competitive Power Ventures, Inc. which is owned by Warburg Pincus, certain individual investors and members of its management team. The challenge for these types of project owners to secure and maintain financing in the midst of the current credit crisis continues to be significant. Should debt financing for the construction of new energy facilities, including alternative or renewable energy plants, not be available, investors may not be able to invest in such projects, thereby adversely affecting the likelihood that GPS or GRP will obtain contracts to construct such plants. The inability of our customers to receive or to avoid delay in receiving the applicable regulatory and environmental approvals relating to projects may result in lost of postponed net revenues for us. The commencement and/or execution of many of the construction projects performed by our power industry services segment are subject to numerous regulatory permitting processes. Applications for permits may be opposed by individuals or environmental groups, resulting in delays and possible non-issuance of the permits. There are no assurances that our customers will obtain the necessary permits for these projects, or that the necessary permits will be obtained in order to allow construction work to proceed as scheduled. Failure to commence or complete construction work as anticipated could have material adverse impacts on our future net revenues, profits and cash flows from operations. Our use of the percentage-of-completion method of accounting could result in a reduction or reversal of previously recorded net revenues or profits. Under our accounting procedures, we measure and recognize a large portion of our net revenues under the percentage-of-completion accounting methodology. This methodology allows us to recognize revenues and contract profits ratably over the life of a contract by comparing the amount of the costs incurred to date against the total amount of costs expected to be incurred. The effects of revisions to revenues and estimated costs are recorded when the amounts are known and can be reasonably estimated, and these revisions can occur at any time and could be material. Given the uncertainties associated with these types of contracts, it is possible for actual costs to vary from estimates previously made, which may result in reductions or reversals of previously recorded net revenues and profits. Future bonding requirements may adversely affect our ability to compete for new energy plant construction projects. Our construction contracts frequently require that we obtain payment and performance bonds from surety companies on behalf of our customers as a condition to the award of such contracts. Surety market conditions have in the last few years become more difficult as a result of significant losses incurred by many surety companies, both in the construction industry as well as in certain large corporate bankruptcies. Consequently, less overall bonding capacity is available in the market than in the past, and surety bonds have become more expensive and restrictive. Historically, we have had a strong bonding capacity but, under standard terms in the surety market, surety companies issue bonds on a project-by-project basis and can decline to issue bonds at any time or require the posting of additional collateral as a condition to issuing any bonds. Current or future market conditions, changes in our surety’s assessment of its own operating and financial risk or larger future projects could cause our surety company to decline to issue, or substantially reduce the amount of, bonds for our work and could increase our bonding costs. These actions can be taken on short notice. If our surety company were to limit or eliminate our access to bonding, our alternatives would include seeking bonding capacity from other surety companies, joint venturing with other construction firms, increasing business with clients that do not require bonds and posting other forms of collateral for project performance, such as letters of credit, or cash. We may be unable to make alternative arrangements in a timely manner, on acceptable terms, or at all. Accordingly, if we were to experience an interruption, reduction or other alteration in the availability of bonding capacity, we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects. - 16 - Table of Contents As we bear the risk of cost overruns in the completion of our construction contracts, we may experience reduced profits or, in some cases, losses under these contracts if actual costs exceed our estimates. We conduct our business under various types of contractual arrangements including fixed price contracts. We bear a significant portion of the risk for cost overruns on these types of contracts where contract prices are established in part on cost and scheduling estimates. Our estimates may be based on a number of assumptions about future economic conditions and the future prices and availability of labor, equipment and materials, and other exigencies. From time to time, we may also assume a project’s technical risk, which means that we may have to satisfy certain technical requirements of a project despite the fact that at the time of project award, we may not have previously produced the system or product in question. Unexpected or increased costs may occur due to the following factors among others: • shortages of skilled labor, materials and energy plant equipment including power turbines; • unanticipated escalation in the price of construction commodities; • unscheduled delays in the delivery of ordered materials and equipment; • engineering problems, including those relating to the commissioning of newly designed equipment; • declines in the productivity of construction workers; • work stoppages; • weather interference; • inability to develop or non-acceptance of new technologies to produce alternative fuel sources; and • the difficulty in obtaining necessary permits or approvals. If our estimates prove inaccurate, or circumstances change, cost overruns may occur and we could experience reduced profits, or in some cases, incur a loss on a particular project. If we are unable to collect amounts billed to project owners as scheduled, our cash flows may be materially and adversely affected. Many of our contracts require us to satisfy specified design, engineering, procurement or construction milestones in order to receive payment for work completed or equipment or supplies procured prior to achievement of the applicable contract milestone. As a result, under these types of arrangements, we may incur significant costs or perform significant amounts of services prior to receipt of payment. If the customer determines not to proceed with the completion of the project, delays in making payment of billed amounts or defaults on its payment obligations, we may face delays or other difficulties in collecting payment of amounts due to us for the costs previously incurred or for the amounts previously expended to purchase equipment or supplies. Such problems may impact the planned cash flows of affected projects and result in unanticipated reductions in the amounts of future cash flows from operations. Our dependence upon third parties to complete many of our contracts may adversely affect our performance under future energy plant construction contracts. Much of the work performed under our energy plant construction contracts is actually performed by third-party subcontractors we hire. We also rely on third-party equipment manufacturers or suppliers to provide much of the equipment used for our energy projects. If we are unable to hire qualified subcontractors or find qualified equipment manufacturers or suppliers, our ability to successfully complete a project could be impaired. If the amount we are required to pay for subcontractors or equipment and supplies exceeds what we have estimated, especially when we are operating under a lump sum or a fixed-price type construction contract, we may suffer losses on these contracts. If a supplier, manufacturer or subcontractor fails to provide supplies, equipment or services as required under a negotiated contract for any reason, we may be required to source these supplies, equipment or services on a delayed basis or at a higher price than anticipated which could impact contract profitability in an adverse manner. If the development of renewable energy sources does not occur, the demand for our construction services could decline. There are many provisions included in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 intended to benefit renewable energy. In addition, over half of the states in the U.S. have passed legislation requiring that utilities include a percentage of renewable energy in the mix of power they generate and buy. These future percentages may be as high as 20%, and the requirements are contributing to the increased momentum of efforts to develop sources of alternative renewable energy, including wind, solar, water, geothermal and biofuels. Should these government requirements fail to be extended or should they be repealed, the pace of the development of alternative renewable energy sources may slow, thereby reducing the future opportunities for GPS to construct such plants. We could be subject to compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that would add costs to our business. Our operations are subject to compliance with federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those relating to discharges to air, water and land, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste, and the cleanup of properties affected by hazardous substances. Certain environmental laws impose substantial penalties for non-compliance and others, such as the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, impose strict, retroactive, joint and several liability upon persons responsible for releases of hazardous substances. We continually evaluate whether we must take additional steps to ensure compliance with environmental laws, however, there can be no assurance that these requirements will not change and that compliance will not adversely affect our operations in the future. - 17 - Table of Contents Specific Risks Relating to Our Telecommunications Infrastructure Services Business Loss of a significant customer could adversely affect our SMC business. Our largest customers assign work to us on a project-by-project basis under master service agreements. Under these agreements, the customers often have no obligation to assign work to us. Furthermore, a customer typically may cancel their contract on short notice, usually 30 to 90 days, even if we are not in default under the contract. The failure to replace any unexpected reduction in work performed for our largest customers or the loss of any one of them as a significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, unless the loss is offset by the addition of a new customer or an increase in the amount of services provided to other customers. If we fail to compete successfully against current or future competitors, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We operate in highly competitive markets. We compete with service providers ranging from small regional companies which service a single market, to larger firms servicing multiple regions, as well as large national and multi-national entities. In addition, there are few barriers to entry in the telecommunications infrastructure industry. As a result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become one of our competitors. Competition in the telecommunications infrastructure industry depends on a number of factors, including price. Certain of our competitors may have lower overhead cost structures than we do and may, therefore, be able to provide their services at lower rates than we can. In addition, some of our competitors are larger and have significantly greater financial resources than we do. Our competitors may develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are superior in price and quality to our services. Similarly, we may not be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position within our industry. We may also face competition from the in-house service organizations of our existing or prospective customers. A significant portion of our business involves providing services, directly or indirectly as a subcontractor, to the federal government under government contracts. The federal government may limit the competitive bidding on any contract under a small business or minority set-aside, in which bidding is limited to companies meeting the criteria for a small business or minority business, respectively. We are currently qualified as a small business concern, but not a minority business. We may not be able to compete successfully against our competitors in the future. If we fail to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Rapid technological change and/or customer consolidations could reduce the demand for the telecommunication services we provide. The telecommunications infrastructure industry is undergoing rapid change as a result of technological advances that could in certain cases reduce the demand for our services or otherwise negatively impact our business. New or developing technologies could displace the wireline systems used for voice, video and data transmissions, and improvements in existing technology may allow telecommunications companies to significantly improve their networks without physically upgrading them. In addition, consolidation, competition or capital constraints in the utility, telecommunications or computer networking industries may result in reduced spending or the loss of one or more of our customers. Our substantial dependence upon fixed price contracts may expose us to losses in the event that we fail to accurately estimate the costs that we will incur to complete such projects. We currently generate, and expect to continue to generate, a significant portion of our net revenues under fixed price contracts. We must estimate the costs of completing a particular project to bid for these fixed price contracts. Although historically we have been able to estimate costs accurately, the cost of labor and materials may, from time to time, vary from costs originally estimated. These variations, along with other risks inherent in performing fixed price contracts, may cause actual net revenues and gross profits for a project to differ from those we originally estimated and could result in reduced profitability or losses on projects. Depending upon the size of a particular project, variations from the estimated contract costs could have a significant impact on our operating results for any fiscal quarter or year. Compliance with government regulations may increase the costs of our operations and expose us to substantial civil and criminal penalties in the event that we violate applicable law. We provide, either directly as a contractor or indirectly as a sub-contractor, products and services to the federal government under government contracts. United States government contracts and related customer orders subject us to various laws and regulations governing federal government contractors and subcontractors, which generally are more restrictive than for non-government contractors. These include subjecting us to examinations by government auditors and investigators, from time to time, to ensure compliance and to review costs. Violations may result in costs disallowed, and substantial civil or criminal liabilities (including, in severe cases, denial of future contracts). A loss or interruption in our ability to perform work for the federal government would have a material adverse effect on our business. - 18 - Table of Contents Specific Risks Relating To Our Nutritional Products Business The inability to replace lost customer business will continue to adversely affect operating results and financial condition. VLI is primarily a contract manufacturer of nutritional products. The ability to quickly replace lost customers or to increase the product offerings sold to existing customers is hampered by the long sales cycle inherent in our type of business. The length of time between the beginning of contract negotiation and the first sale to a new customer could exceed six months including extended periods of product testing and acceptance. Accordingly, we do not expect this business to recover quickly despite the existence of new business prospects. Further, the loss of any existing customers or unexpected reductions in the levels of sales to such customers would exacerbate the negative and material effects of the business reductions experienced since fiscal year 2006. Negative publicity about us, our products and/or our industry could cause our business to suffer. Our business depends, in part, upon the public’s belief in the safety and quality of our products. Although many of the ingredients in our products are vitamins, minerals, herbs and other substances for which there is a long history of human consumption, some of our products contain innovative ingredients or combinations of ingredients. Although we test the formulation and production of our products and we believe that all of our products are safe when used as directed, there may be little long-term experience with human consumption of certain of these product ingredients or combinations thereof. Further, we have not sponsored or conducted clinical studies on the effects of human consumption. Any adverse publicity about the safety or quality of our products or our competitors’ products, whether or not accurate, could negatively affect the public’s perception of us, our products, and/or our industry, resulting in a significant decline in the demand for our products and our future operating results. Our business and products could be adversely affected by negative publicity regarding, among other things: • the nutritional supplements industry; • competitors; • the safety and quality of our products and ingredients; and • regulatory investigations of our products or competitors’ products. Our inability to respond to changing consumer demands and preferences could adversely affect our business. The nutritional industry is subject to rapidly changing consumer demands and preferences. There can be no assurance that customers will continue to favor the products provided and manufactured by us. In addition, products that gain wide acceptance with consumers may result in a greater number of competitors entering the market which could result in downward price pressure which could adversely impact our financial results. We believe that any growth of this business will be materially dependent upon our ability to develop new techniques and processes necessary to meet the needs of our current customers and potential new customers. Our inability to anticipate and respond to these rapidly changing demands could have an adverse effect on our business operations. Failure to perform effectively in an intensely competitive industry will harm our business. The market for nutritional products is highly competitive. Our direct competition consists primarily of publicly and privately owned companies, which tend to be highly fragmented in terms of both geographical market coverage and product categories. These companies compete with us on different levels in the development, manufacture and marketing of nutritional supplements. Many of these companies have broader product lines and larger sales volume, are significantly larger than us, have greater name recognition, financial personnel, distribution and other resources than we do and may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions. There can be no assurance that our customers and potential customers will regard our products as sufficiently distinguishable from competitive products. Our inability to compete successfully would have a material adverse effect on our business. The successful fulfillment of customer orders depends on our ability to obtain the necessary raw materials in a timely manner. Although we believe that there are adequate sources of supply for all of our principal raw materials we require, there can be no assurance that our sources of supply for our principal raw materials will be adequate in all circumstances. In the event that such sources are not adequate, we will have to find alternate sources. As a result we may experience delays in locating and establishing relationships with alternate sources which could result in product shortages and backorders for our products, with a resulting loss of revenues for us. - 19 - Table of Contents Future product liability claims may expose us to unexpected damages and expenses which could adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. We could face financial liability due to product liability claims if the use of our products results in significant loss or injury. To date, we have not been the subject of any product liability claims. However, we can make no assurances that we will not be exposed to future product liability claims. Such claims may include that our products contain contaminants, that we provide consumers with inadequate instructions regarding product use, or that we provide inadequate warnings concerning side effects or interactions of our products with other substances. We believe that we maintain adequate product liability insurance coverage. However, a product liability claim could exceed the amount of our insurance coverage or a product claim could be excluded under the terms of our existing insurance policy, which could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. A violation of government regulations or our inability to obtain necessary government approvals for our products could harm our business. The formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, advertising, distribution and sale of our products are subject to regulation by one or more federal agencies, including the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the Environmental Protection Agency, and also by various agencies of the states, localities and foreign countries in which our products are sold. In particular, the FDA, pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FDCA), regulates the formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution and sale of dietary supplements, including vitamins, minerals and herbs, and of over-the-counter (OTC) drugs, while the FTC has jurisdiction to regulate advertising of these products, and the US Postal Service regulates advertising claims with respect to such products sold by mail order. The FDCA has been amended several times with respect to dietary supplements, most recently by the Nutrition Labeling and Education Act of 1990 and the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994. In addition, our products are also subject to regulations under various state and local laws that include provisions governing, among other things, the formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, advertising and distribution of dietary supplements and OTC drugs. Our inability to comply with these numerous regulations could harm our business, resulting in, among other things, injunctions, product withdrawals, recalls, product seizures, fines and criminal prosecutions. In the future, we may become subject to additional laws or regulations administered by the FDA or by other federal, state, local or foreign regulatory authorities, to the repeal of laws or regulations that we consider favorable, or to more stringent interpretations of current laws or regulations. We can neither predict the nature of such future laws, regulations, repeals or interpretations, nor can we predict what effect additional governmental regulation, when and if it occurs, would have on our business. These regulations could, however, require the reformation of certain products to meet new standards, the recall or discontinuance of certain products not able to be reformulated, additional record-keeping requirements, increased documentation of the properties of certain products, additional or different labeling, additional scientific substantiation or other new requirements. Any of these developments could result in sales reductions and/or unanticipated expenses having material adverse effects on our business. Our inability to adequately protect our products from replication by competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business. We own proprietary formulas for certain of our nutritional products. We regard our proprietary formulas as valuable assets and believe they have significant value in the marketing of our products. Because we do not have patents or trademarks on our products, there can be no assurance that another company will not replicate and market one or more of our products, thereby causing us to lose business. Risks Relating to Our Securities Our acquisition strategy may result in dilution to our stockholders. Our business strategy calls for the strategic acquisition of other businesses. In connection with our acquisitions of GPS and VLI, among other consideration, we issued approximately 3,667,000 and 1,785,000 shares of our common stock, respectively, to the sellers of the businesses. In addition, we issued approximately 2,853,000 shares of our common stock in our December 2006 private placement. The proceeds from this offering were used in funding the cash consideration portion of the purchase price of GPS. In July 2008, we issued 2,200,000 shares in a private placement transaction. In the aggregate, the number of shares issued pursuant to these transactions represents approximately 77% of our outstanding shares of common stock as of January 31, 2010. We anticipate that future acquisitions will require cash and issuances of our capital stock, including our common stock. To the extent we are required to pay cash for any acquisition, we anticipate that we would be required to obtain additional equity and/or debt financing. Equity financing would result in dilution for our then current stockholders. Stock issuances and financing, if obtained, may not be on terms favorable to us and could result in substantial dilution to our stockholders at the time(s) of these stock issuances and financings. - 20 - Table of Contents Our officers, directors and certain key employees have substantial control over Argan, Inc. As of January 31, 2010, our executive officers and directors as a group owned approximately 14.6% of our voting shares (giving effect to an aggregate of 358,224 shares of common stock that may be purchased upon the exercise of warrants and stock options held by our executive officers and directors (and deemed exercisable at January 31, 2010) and 1,323,270 shares beneficially held in the name of MSR Advisors, Inc. and affiliates for which one of our directors is President). In addition, another 57.9% of our voting shares were owned by William F. Griffin, Jr. (a former owner of GPS), by Allen & Company entities and by three unaffiliated stockholders. Therefore, this small group of stockholders may have significant influence over corporate actions such as an amendment to our certificate of incorporation, the consummation of any merger, or the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, and may substantially influence the election of directors and other actions requiring stockholder approval. As our common stock is thinly traded, the stock price may be volatile and investors may have difficulty disposing of their investments at prevailing market prices. In August 2007, our common stock was approved for listing on the NYSE Amex stock exchange (formerly the American Stock Exchange) and commenced trading under the symbol AGX. Until August 2007, our common stock traded over-the-counter under the symbol AGAX.OB. Despite the new listing on the larger stock exchange, our common stock remains thinly and sporadically traded and no assurances can be given that a larger market will ever develop, or if developed, that it will be maintained. Availability of significant amounts of our common stock for sale could adversely affect its market price. Since February 1, 2007, we have registered significant amounts of our common stock for issuance and resale including 2,400,000 shares of our common stock registered on Form S-3 in July 2008. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, including shares registered under any registration statement on Form S-3, the market price of our common stock could fall. We may issue preferred stock with rights that are superior to our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation, as amended, permits our Board of Directors to authorize the issuance of shares of preferred stock and to designate the terms of the preferred stock. The issuance of shares of preferred stock by us could adversely affect the rights of holders of common stock by, among other factors, establishing dividend rights, liquidation rights and voting rights that are superior to the rights of the holders of the common stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and Delaware law could deter takeover attempts. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and Delaware law could delay, prevent, or make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us. Among other things, under our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors may issue up to 500,000 shares of our preferred stock and may determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting and conversion rights, of these shares of preferred stock. In addition, Delaware law limits transactions between us and persons that acquire significant amounts of our stock without approval of our board of directors. We do not expect to pay cash dividends for the foreseeable future. We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock since our inception and intend to retain earnings, if any, to finance the development and expansion of our business. As a result, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Payment of cash dividends, if any, will depend on our future earnings, capital requirements and financial position, plans for expansion, general economic conditions and other pertinent factors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. - 21 - Table of Contents 