Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company's business may be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. The United States economy has undergone a severe recession and remains in a period of limited growth and historically high unemployment. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions has been challenged and individuals, local governments and many businesses are experiencing financial difficulties. The Company has been adversely affected by declines in the values of several asset classes. Declining asset values, defaults on mortgages and consumer loans, and the lack of market and investor confidence, as well as other factors, have all combined to decrease the availability of liquidity. Some banks and other lenders have suffered significant losses. The foregoing has significantly weakened the strength and liquidity of many financial institutions worldwide. The Company's financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, is highly dependent upon the business environment in the markets where the Company operates, in the New York metropolitan area and in the United States as a F-35 whole. Conditions in these marketplaces remain historically weak, and there can be no assurance that they will improve in the near term. Should such conditions worsen or continue to remain weak, they may continue to adversely affect the credit quality of the Bank's loans, results of operations and financial condition. The Bank’s focus on multifamily and commercial real estate lending may subject it to greater risk of an adverse impact on operations from a decline in the economy. The credit quality of the Bank's portfolio can have a significant impact on the Company's earnings, results of operations and financial condition. The majority of loans in the Bank’s portfolio are secured by multifamily residential property. Multifamily loans have traditionally been viewed as exposing lenders to a greater risk of loss than one- to four-family residential loans, due to the following concerns: 1) They typically involve higher loan principal amounts and thus expose the Bank to a greater potential impact of losses from any one loan or concentration of loans to one borrower relative to the size of the Bank’s capital position; and 2) their borrowers often own several properties, and often a borrower experiencing financial difficulties in connection with one income producing property may default on all of his or her outstanding loans, even if the properties securing the other loans are generating positive cash flow. See "Part II. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" for a further discussion. As part of the Company’s strategic plan, it increased its emphasis on commercial real estate loans from 2002 through 2007. Loans secured by commercial real estate are generally larger and involve a greater degree of risk than one- to four-family and multifamily residential mortgage loans. Because payments on loans secured by commercial real estate are often dependent upon successful operation or management of the collateral properties, repayment of such loans is generally subject to a greater extent to prevailing conditions in the real estate market or the economy. Further, the collateral securing such loans may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based upon the success of the business. Multifamily and commercial real estate loans additionally involve a greater risk than one- to four- family residential mortgage loans because economic and real estate conditions, and government regulations such as rent control and rent stabilization laws, which are outside the control of the borrower or the Bank, could impair the value of the security for the loan or the future cash flow of such properties. As a result, rental income might not rise sufficiently over time to satisfy increases in the loan rate at repricing or increases in overhead expenses (i.e., utilities, taxes, etc.). Impaired loans are thus difficult to identify before they become problematic. In addition, if the cash flow from a collateral property is reduced (e.g., if leases are not obtained or renewed), the borrower’s ability to repay the loan and the value of the security for the loan may be impaired. In addition, in deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, the Bank may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of a customer and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial information could have a material adverse impact on the Company's business and, in turn, its financial condition and results of operations. The Company is dependent on economic and real estate conditions and geographic concentration in its market area. The Bank gathers deposits primarily from the communities and neighborhoods in close proximity to its branches. The Bank lends primarily in the NYC metropolitan area, although its overall lending area is much larger, and extends approximately 150 miles in each direction from its corporate headquarters in Brooklyn. The majority of the Bank’s mortgage loans are secured by properties located in its primary lending area, approximately 75% of which are located in the NYC boroughs of Brooklyn, Queens and Manhattan. As a result of this geographic concentration, the Bank’s results of operations depend largely upon economic conditions in this area. A deterioration in economic conditions or increase in unemployment in the NYC metropolitan area could have a material adverse impact upon the quality of the Bank’s loan portfolio and the demand for its products and services, and, accordingly, on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows, business, financial condition and prospects. Conditions in the real estate markets in which the collateral for the Bank’s mortgage loans are located strongly influence the level of the Bank’s non-performing loans and the value of its collateral. Real estate values are affected by, among other items, fluctuations in general or local economic conditions, supply and demand, changes in governmental rules or policies, the availability of loans to potential purchasers and acts of nature. Declines in real estate markets have in the past, and may in the future, negatively impact the Company’s results of operations, cash flows, business, financial condition and prospects. In addition, at December 31, 2009 the Bank had ten borrowers for which its total lending exposure equaled or exceeded 10% of its capital. Total default by these borrowers could adversely impact the Bank's financial condition and results of operations. The Bank’s allowance for loan losses may be insufficient. F-36 The Bank’s allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level considered adequate by management to absorb losses inherent in its loan portfolio. The amount of inherent loan losses which could be ultimately realized is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, that could be beyond the Bank’s control. Such losses could exceed current estimates. Although management believes that the Bank’s allowance for loan losses is adequate, there can be no assurance that the allowance will be sufficient to satisfy actual loan losses should such losses be realized. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and capital, and may have a material adverse effect on the Bank’s financial condition and results of operations. Increases in interest rates may reduce the Company’s profitability. The Bank’s primary source of income is its net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on its interest earning assets and the interest expense incurred on its interest bearing liabilities. The Bank's one-year interest rate sensitivity gap is the difference between interest rate sensitive assets maturing or repricing within one year and its interest rate sensitive liabilities maturing or repricing within one year, expressed as both a total amount and as a percentage of total assets. At December 31, 2009, the Bank's one year interest rate gap was negative, indicating that the overall level of its interest rate sensitive liabilities maturing or repricing within one year exceeded that of its interest rate sensitive assets maturing or repricing within one year. In a rising interest rate environment, an institution with a negative gap would generally be expected, absent the effects of other factors, to experience a greater increase in its cost of liabilities relative to its yield on assets, and thus a decline in net interest income from its existing investments and funding sources. Based upon historical experience, if interest rates were to rise, the Bank would expect the demand for multifamily loans to decline. Decreased loan origination volume would likely negatively impact the Bank's interest income. In addition, if interest rates were to rise rapidly and result in an economic decline, the Bank would expect its level of non-performing loans to increase. Such an increase in non-performing loans may result in an increase to the allowance for loan losses and possible increased charge-offs, which would negatively impact the Company's net income. Further, the actual amount of time before mortgage loans and MBS are repaid can be significantly impacted by changes in mortgage redemption rates and market interest rates. Mortgage prepayment, satisfaction and refinancing rates will vary due to several factors, including the regional economy in the area where the underlying mortgages were originated, seasonal factors, and other demographic variables. However, the most significant factors affecting prepayment, satisfaction and refinancing rates are prevailing interest rates, related mortgage refinancing opportunities and competition. The level of mortgage and MBS prepayment, satisfaction and refinancing activity impacts the Company's earnings due to its effect on fee income earned on prepayment and refinancing activities, along with liquidity levels the Company will experience to fund new investments or ongoing operations. As a federally-chartered savings bank, the Bank is required to monitor changes in its NPV, which is the difference between the estimated market value of its assets and liabilities. In addition, the Bank monitors its NPV ratio, which is the NPV divided by the estimated market value of total assets. To monitor its overall sensitivity to changes in interest rates, the Bank simulates the effect of instantaneous changes in interest rates of up to 200 basis points on its assets and liabilities. Interest rates do and will continue to fluctuate, and the Bank cannot predict future FOMC actions or other factors that will cause interest rates to vary. The Company is subject to uncertain risks related to changes in laws, government regulation and monetary policy. The Holding Company and the Bank are subject to extensive supervision, regulation and examination by the OTS, as the Bank's chartering agency, and the FDIC, as its deposit insurer. Such regulation limits the manner in which the Holding Company and Bank conduct business, undertake new investments and activities and obtain financing. This regulation is designed primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance funds and the Bank’s depositors, and not to benefit the Bank or its creditors. The regulatory structure also provides the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies, including policies with respect to capital levels, the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject the Holding Company and Bank to regulatory enforcement action that could result in the assessment of significant civil money penalties against the Holding Company and Bank. For further information regarding the laws and regulations that affect the Holding Company and the Bank, see "Item 1. Business - Regulation - Regulation of Federal Savings Associations," and "Item 1. Business - Regulation - - Regulation of Holding Company." The fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its policies determine in significant part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect the Company's net interest margin. Government action can F-37 materially decrease the value of the Company's financial assets, such as debt securities, mortgages and MSR. Governmental policies can also adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. Changes in Federal Reserve Board or governmental policies are beyond the Company's control and difficult to predict; consequently, the impact of these changes on the Company's activities and results of operations is difficult to predict. Financial institution regulation has been the subject of significant legislation in recent years, and may be the subject of further significant legislation in the future, none of which is within the control of the Holding Company or the Bank. Significant new laws or changes in, or repeals of, existing laws may cause the Company's results of operations to differ materially. Further, federal monetary policy, significantly affects credit conditions for the Company, primarily through open market operations in United States government securities, the discount rate for bank borrowings and reserve requirements for liquid assets. A material change in any of these conditions would have a material impact on the Bank, and therefore, on the Company’s results of operations. Increased regulation and oversight will increase the Company's compliance costs and may hinder the Company's ability to introduce new products and services. Current and potential future increases in FDIC assessments will decrease the Company's earnings. Competition from other financial institutions in originating loans and attracting deposits may adversely affect profitability. The Bank operates in a highly competitive industry that could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes, and continued consolidation. The Bank's retail banking and a significant portion of its lending business are concentrated in the NYC metropolitan area. The NYC banking environment is extremely competitive. The Bank’s competition for loans exists principally from savings banks, commercial banks, mortgage banks and insurance companies. The Bank has faced sustained competition for the origination of multifamily residential and commercial real estate loans. Management anticipates that the current level of competition for multifamily residential and commercial real estate loans will continue for the foreseeable future, and this competition may inhibit the Bank’s ability to maintain its current level and pricing of such loans. Other financial institutions that participated in the TARP Capital Purchase Program and the TLGP may have a source of funding that costs less than market-rate funding available to the Company. The Company has declined to participate in both the TARP Capital Purchase Program and the TLGP. The Bank’s cost of borrowing may be higher than competitors with weaker balance sheets but with TARP and TLGP funding. The Bank’s cost of funding may make it difficult for it to complete with its government-backed competitors. Clients could pursue alternatives to the Bank's deposits, causing the Bank to lose a historically less expensive source of funding. The Bank gathers deposits in direct competition with commercial banks, savings banks and brokerage firms, many among the largest in the nation. In addition, it must also compete for deposit monies against the stock markets, mutual funds, and other securities. Over the previous decade, consolidation in the financial services industry, coupled with the emergence of Internet banking, has altered the deposit gathering landscape and may increase competitive pressures on the Bank. The Bank may not be able to meet the cash flow requirements of its depositors and borrowers or meet its operating cash needs. Liquidity is the ability to meet cash flow needs on a timely basis at a reasonable cost. The liquidity of the Bank is used to make loans and repay deposit liabilities as they become due or are demanded by customers. Liquidity policies and limits are established by the board of directors. The Holding Company's overall liquidity position and the liquidity position of the Bank are regularly monitored to ensure that various alternative strategies exist to cover unanticipated events that could affect liquidity. Funding sources include deposits, repayments of loans and MBS, investment security maturities and redemptions, advances from the FHLBNY and REPOS. The Bank maintains a portfolio of securities that can be used as a secondary source of liquidity. The Bank also can borrow through the Federal Reserve Bank’s discount window. If the Bank was unable to access any of these funding sources when needed, it might be unable to meet customers’ needs, which could adversely impact the Company's financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and level of regulatory-qualifying capital. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect the Company. The Company's ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. The Company has exposure to many different industries and counterparties. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by the Company or by other institutions. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect the Company's results of operations. F-38 Negative public opinion could damage the Company's reputation and adversely impact its business and revenues. As a financial institution, the Bank's earnings and capital are subject to risks associated with negative public opinion. Negative public opinion could result from the Company's actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, the failure of any product or service sold by the Bank to meet customers’ expectations or applicable regulatory requirements, corporate governance and acquisitions, or from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect the Company's ability to attract and/or retain clients and can expose the Company to litigation and regulatory action. Actual or alleged conduct by one of the Company's businesses can result in negative public opinion about its other businesses. Negative public opinion could also affect the Company's credit ratings, which are important to its access to unsecured wholesale borrowings. Significant changes in these ratings could change the cost and availability of these sources of funding. The impact of recently enacted and proposed legislation and government programs to stabilize the financial markets cannot be predicted at this time. During 2008 and 2009, there was unprecedented government intervention in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets, including: · The enactment of the EESA in October 2008, which gave the Treasury the authority, among others, to purchase up to $700 billion of troubled assets from financial institutions; · The announcements shortly thereafter by the Treasury, the FDIC and the FRB, respectively, of (i) the Capital Purchase Program ("CPP"), a $250 billion voluntary capital purchase program under which qualifying financial institutions were given the ability to sell preferred shares to the Treasury, (ii) the TLGP, and (iii) further details of the Commercial Paper Funding Facility ("CPFF"), which provides a broad backstop for the commercial paper market; · The announcement by the Treasury in February 2009 of the Capital Assistance Program ("CAP") under which qualifying financial institutions were provided access to contingent common equity provided by the U.S. government as a bridge to private capital in the future; · The announcement by the federal banking regulators of the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program, under which the federal banking regulators measured the amount of additional capital, if any, each of the 19 largest U.S. bank holding companies would require in order to ensure that it would comfortably exceed minimum regulatory capital requirements at December 31, 2010 (as a result of which many of the nineteen institutions underwent capital raising or restructuring transactions to improve their capital base); and · The March 2009 announcement by the Treasury, in conjunction with the FDIC and the FRB, of the Public-Private Investment Program ("PPIP"), which consists of two discrete components: (1) the Legacy Loan Program, which was designed to facilitate the sale of commercial and residential whole loans and “other assets” currently held by U.S. banks, and (2) the Legacy Securities Program, which was designed to facilitate the sale of legacy residential MBS and commercial MBS initially rated AAA and currently held by Financial Institutions (as defined under the EESA). The Company did not participate in the TLGP, CPP, CPFF or CAP, and does not expect to participate in either PPIP program. Although it appears that there has been some stabilization of the U.S. financial markets as a result of the foregoing programs and other actions taken by the U.S. government, there can be no assurance as to the actual impact that such programs or any other governmental program will have on the financial markets and the economy in the future. The financial market and economic conditions that existed during 2008 and 2009 had, during the year ended December 31, 2009, and to the extent that such conditions continue or worsen, will continue to have, an adverse affect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations, and could also materially and adversely affect the Company's business, access to credit or the trading price of its common stock. In addition, the Company expects to face increased regulation and supervision of the Bank's industry as a result of the financial crisis in the banking and financial markets, and there will be additional requirements and conditions imposed to the extent that it participates in any of the programs established or to be established by the Treasury or by the federal bank regulatory agencies. Such additional regulation and supervision may increase costs and limit the Company's ability to pursue business opportunities. The potential adoption of significant aspects of propsed regulatory reform legislation may have a material effect on the Company's operations F-39 On December 11, 2009, the House of Representatives passed the Reform Bill. The Reform Bill is intended to address perceived weaknesses in the U.S. financial regulatory system and prevent future economic and financial crises. The Reform Bill, among other things, creates three new governmental agencies: the Financial Services Oversight Council, the Federal Insurance Office and the CFPA. The CFPA will have the authority to implement and enforce a variety of existing consumer protection statutes and to issue new regulations. In addition, the Reform Bill amends the HOLA to establish the Division with the OCC and to abolish the OTS and transfer its functions and personnel to the Division. The Reform Bill preserves the federal thrift charter for thrifts, such as the Bank. Most significantly for the Company, the Reform Bill contains provisions which would result in thrift holding companies, such as the Holding Company, becoming bank holding companies subject to consolidated capital requirements, Bank Holding Company Act limitations and supervision by the FRB. Similar legislation is currently under consideration by the Senate’s Banking Committee. The Senate’s proposed legislation also contemplates elimination of the federal thrift charter with federal thrifts being regulated by a proposed new federal banking agency. The exact requirements and timing of any final legislation cannot be determined at this time. If the more significant provisions of the Reform Bill or the Senate’s proposed legislation become final, the Company's operations would be significantly affected. The FDIC’s restoration plan and the related increased assessment rate schedule may have a further material effect on the Company's results of operations. In February 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule which set the initial base assessment rates beginning April 1, 2009 and provided for the following adjustments to an institution's assessment rate: (1) a decrease for long-term unsecured debt, including most senior and subordinated debt; (2) an increase for secured liabilities above a threshold amount; and (3) for non-Risk Category I institutions, an increase for brokered deposits above a threshold amount. The Bank's deposit insurance assessments totaled $3.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to $899,000 for the year ended December 31, 2008. The FDIC also adopted a final rule in May 2009 imposing a five basis point special assessment on each insured depository institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, which was collected on September 30, 2009. The Bank's FDIC special assessment totaled $1.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. On September 29, 2009, the FDIC adopted an amendment to the restoration plan that increases the deposit insurance assessment rate uniformly across all four risk categories by three basis points (annualized) of insured deposits beginning January 1, 2011. In addition, on November 17, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule that required insured depository institutions to prepay their quarterly deposit insurance assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012 on December 30, 2009, together with their regular deposit insurance assessment for the third quarter of 2009. The Bank's payment on December 30, 2009 totaled approximately $13.4 million. There is no guarantee that the higher premiums, special assessment and assessment prepayment described above will be sufficient for the DIF to satisfy its funding requirements, which may result in further special assessments or increases in deposit insurance premiums. Any such future assessments or increases could have a further material impact on the Company's results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 