ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the specific risk factors set forth below as well as the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report. Some factors in this section are Forward-Looking Statements. See “Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” above. 10 Table of Contents Risks Inherent in our Business Operations Since weather conditions may adversely affect demand for propane, fuel oil and other refined fuels and natural gas, our results of operations and financial condition are vulnerable to warm winters. Weather conditions have a significant impact on the demand for propane, fuel oil and other refined fuels and natural gas for both heating and agricultural purposes. Many of our customers rely heavily on propane, fuel oil or natural gas as a heating source. The volume of propane, fuel oil and natural gas sold is at its highest during the six-month peak heating season of October through March and is directly affected by the severity of the winter. Typically, we sell approximately two-thirds of our retail propane volume and approximately three-fourths of our retail fuel oil volume during the peak heating season. Actual weather conditions can vary substantially from year to year, significantly affecting our financial performance. For example, average temperatures in our service territories were 5%, 1% and 6% warmer than normal for fiscal 2010, fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, respectively, as measured by the number of heating degree days reported by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Furthermore, variations in weather in one or more regions in which we operate can significantly affect the total volume of propane, fuel oil and other refined fuels and natural gas we sell and, consequently, our results of operations. Variations in the weather in the northeast, where we have a greater concentration of propane accounts and substantially all of our fuel oil and natural gas operations, generally have a greater impact on our operations than variations in the weather in other markets. We can give no assurance that the weather conditions in any quarter or year will not have a material adverse effect on our operations, or that our available cash will be sufficient to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness and distributions to unitholders. Sudden increases in the price of propane, fuel oil and other refined fuels and natural gas due to, among other things, our inability to obtain adequate supplies from our usual suppliers, may adversely affect our operating results. Our profitability in the retail propane, fuel oil and refined fuels and natural gas businesses is largely dependent on the difference between our product cost and retail sales price. Propane, fuel oil and other refined fuels and natural gas are commodities, and the unit price we pay is subject to volatile changes in response to changes in supply or other market conditions over which we have no control, including the severity of winter weather and the price and availability of competing alternative energy sources. In general, product supply contracts permit suppliers to charge posted prices at the time of delivery or the current prices established at major supply points, including Mont Belvieu, Texas, and Conway, Kansas. In addition, our supply from our usual sources may be interrupted due to reasons that are beyond our control. As a result, the cost of acquiring propane, fuel oil and other refined fuels and natural gas from other suppliers might be materially higher at least on a short-term basis. Since we may not be able to pass on to our customers immediately, or in full, all increases in our wholesale cost of propane, fuel oil and other refined fuels and natural gas, these increases could reduce our profitability. We engage in transactions to manage the price risk associated with certain of our product costs from time to time in an attempt to reduce cost volatility and to help ensure availability of product. We can give no assurance that future volatility in propane, fuel oil and natural gas supply costs will not have a material adverse effect on our profitability and cash flow, or that our available cash will be sufficient to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness and distributions to our unitholders. High prices for propane, fuel oil and other refined fuels and natural gas can lead to customer conservation, resulting in reduced demand for our product. Prices for propane, fuel oil and other refined fuels and natural gas are subject to fluctuations in response to changes in wholesale prices and other market conditions beyond our control. Therefore, our average retail sales prices can vary significantly from year to year as wholesale prices fluctuate with propane, fuel oil and natural gas commodity market conditions. During periods of high propane, fuel oil and other refined fuels and natural gas product costs our selling prices generally increase. High prices can lead to customer conservation, resulting in reduced demand for our product. 11 Table of Contents Because of the highly competitive nature of the retail propane and fuel oil businesses, we may not be able to retain existing customers or acquire new customers, which could have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. The retail propane and fuel oil industries are mature and highly competitive. We expect overall demand for propane to remain relatively constant over the next several years, while we expect the overall demand for fuel oil to be relatively flat to moderately declining during the same period. Year-to-year industry volumes of propane and fuel oil are expected to be primarily affected by weather patterns and from competition intensifying during warmer than normal winters, as well as from the impact of a sustained higher commodity price environment on customer conservation or the impact of continued weakness in the economy on customer buying habits. Propane and fuel oil compete in the alternative energy sources market with electricity, natural gas and other existing and future sources of energy, some of which are, or may in the future be, less costly for equivalent energy value. For example, natural gas is a significantly less expensive source of energy than propane and fuel oil on an equivalent BTU basis. As a result, except for some industrial and commercial applications, propane and fuel oil are generally not economically competitive with natural gas in areas where natural gas pipelines already exist. The gradual expansion of the nation’s natural gas distribution systems has made natural gas available in many areas that previously depended upon propane or fuel oil. Propane and fuel oil compete to a lesser extent with each other due to the cost of converting from one to the other. In addition to competing with other sources of energy, our propane and fuel oil businesses compete with other distributors principally on the basis of price, service, availability and portability. Competition in the retail propane business is highly fragmented and generally occurs on a local basis with other large full-service multi-state propane marketers, thousands of smaller local independent marketers and farm cooperatives. Our fuel oil business competes with fuel oil distributors offering a broad range of services and prices, from full service distributors to those offering delivery only. In addition, our existing fuel oil customers, unlike our existing propane customers, generally own their own tanks, which can result in intensified competition for these customers. As a result of the highly competitive nature of the retail propane and fuel oil businesses, our growth within these industries depends on our ability to acquire other retail distributors, open new customer service centers, add new customers and retain existing customers. We can give no assurance that we will be able to acquire other retail distributors, add new customers and retain existing customers. Energy efficiency, general economic conditions and technological advances have affected and may continue to affect demand for propane and fuel oil by our retail customers. The national trend toward increased conservation and technological advances, including installation of improved insulation and the development of more efficient furnaces and other heating devices, has adversely affected the demand for propane and fuel oil by our retail customers which, in turn, has resulted in lower sales volumes to our customers. In addition, continued weakness in the economy may lead to additional conservation by retail customers seeking to further reduce their heating costs, particularly during periods of sustained higher commodity prices. Future technological advances in heating, conservation and energy generation may adversely affect our volumes sold, which, in turn, may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Current conditions in the global capital and credit markets, and general economic pressures, may adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Our business and operating results are materially affected by worldwide economic conditions. Current conditions in the global capital and credit markets and general economic pressures have led to declining consumer and business confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. As a result of this turmoil, coupled with increasing energy prices, our customers may experience cash flow shortages which may lead to delayed or cancelled plans to purchase our products, and affect the ability of our customers to pay for our products. In addition, disruptions in the U.S. residential mortgage market, increases in mortgage foreclosure rates and failures of lending institutions may adversely affect retail customer demand for our products (in particular, products used for home heating and home comfort equipment) and our business and results of operations. Our operating results and ability to generate sufficient cash flow to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness, and to pay distributions to unitholders, may be affected by our ability to continue to control expenses. The propane and fuel oil industries are mature and highly fragmented with competition from other multi-state marketers and thousands of smaller local independent marketers. Demand for propane and fuel oil is expected to be affected by many factors beyond our control, including, but not limited to, the severity of weather conditions during the peak heating season, customer conservation driven by high energy costs and other economic factors, as well as technological advances impacting energy efficiency. Accordingly, our propane and fuel oil sales volumes and related gross margins may be negatively affected by these factors beyond our control. Our operating profits and ability to generate sufficient cash flow may depend on our ability to continue to control expenses in line with sales volumes. We can give no assurance that we will be able to continue to control expenses to the extent necessary to reduce the effect on our profitability and cash flow from these factors. The risk of terrorism and political unrest and the current hostilities in the Middle East or other energy producing regions may adversely affect the economy and the price and availability of propane, fuel oil and other refined fuels and natural gas. Terrorist attacks and political unrest and the current hostilities in the Middle East or other energy producing regions may adversely impact the price and availability of propane, fuel oil and other refined fuels and natural gas, as well as our results of operations, our ability to raise capital and our future growth. The impact that the foregoing may have on our industry in general, and on us in particular, is not known at this time. An act of terror could result in disruptions of crude oil or natural gas supplies and markets (the sources of propane and fuel oil), and our infrastructure facilities could be direct or indirect targets. Terrorist activity may also hinder our ability to transport propane, fuel oil and other refined fuels if our means of supply transportation, such as rail or pipeline, become damaged as a result of an attack. A lower level of economic activity could result in a decline in energy consumption, which could adversely affect our revenues or restrict our future growth. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism could also affect our ability to raise capital. Terrorist activity and hostilities in the Middle East or other energy producing regions could likely lead to increased volatility in prices for propane, fuel oil and other refined fuels and natural gas. We have opted to purchase insurance coverage for terrorist acts within our property and casualty insurance programs, but we can give no assurance that our insurance coverage will be adequate to fully compensate us for any losses to our business or property resulting from terrorist acts. Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by governmental regulation and associated environmental and health and safety costs. Our business is subject to a wide range of federal, state and local laws and regulations related to environmental and health and safety matters including those concerning, among other things, the investigation and remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater and transportation of hazardous materials. These requirements are complex, changing and tend to become more stringent over time. In addition, we are required to maintain various permits that are necessary to operate our facilities, some of which are material to our operations. There can be no assurance that we have been, or will be, at all times in complete compliance with all legal, regulatory and permitting requirements or that we will not incur significant costs in the future relating to such requirements. Violations could result in penalties, or the curtailment or cessation of operations. 13 Table of Contents Moreover, currently unknown environmental issues, such as the discovery of additional contamination, may result in significant additional expenditures, and potentially significant expenditures also could be required to comply with future changes to environmental laws and regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof. Such expenditures, if required, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to operating hazards and litigation risks that could adversely affect our operating results to the extent not covered by insurance. Our operations are subject to all operating hazards and risks normally associated with handling, storing and delivering combustible liquids such as propane, fuel oil and other refined fuels. We have been, and are likely to continue to be, a defendant in various legal proceedings and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business, both as a result of these operating hazards and risks and as a result of other aspects of our business. We are self-insured for general and product, workers’ compensation and automobile liabilities up to predetermined amounts above which third-party insurance applies. We cannot guarantee that our insurance will be adequate to protect us from all material expenses related to potential future claims for personal injury and property damage or that these levels of insurance will be available at economical prices, or that all legal matters that arise will be covered by our insurance programs. If we are unable to make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms or effectively integrate such acquisitions into our operations, our financial performance may be adversely affected. The retail propane and fuel oil industries are mature. We foresee only limited growth in total retail demand for propane and flat to moderately declining retail demand for fuel oil. With respect to our retail propane business, it may be difficult for us to increase our aggregate number of retail propane customers except through acquisitions. As a result, we expect the success of our financial performance to depend, in part, upon our ability to acquire other retail propane and fuel oil distributors or other energy-related businesses and to successfully integrate them into our existing operations and to make cost saving changes. The competition for acquisitions is intense and we can make no assurance that we will be able to acquire other propane and fuel oil distributors or other energy-related businesses on economically acceptable terms or, if we do, to integrate the acquired operations effectively. The adoption of climate change legislation by Congress could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the products and services we provide. On June 26, 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives approved adoption of the “American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009,” also known as the “Waxman-Markey cap-and-trade legislation” (“ACESA”). The purpose of ACESA is to control and reduce emissions of “greenhouse gases” (“GHGs”) in the United States. GHGs are certain gases, including carbon dioxide and methane, that may contribute to the warming of the Earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. ACESA would establish an economy-wide cap on emissions of GHGs in the United States and would require certain regulated entities to obtain GHG emission “allowances” corresponding to the annual emission of GHGs attributable to their products or operations. Regulated entities under ACESA include producers of natural gas liquids (“NGLs”), local natural gas distribution companies and certain industrial facilities. Under ACESA, the number of authorized emission allowances would decline each year, resulting in an expected and progressive increase in the cost or value of the allowances. The net effect of maintaining emission allowances under ACESA would be to increase the costs associated with the combusting of carbon-based fuels such as natural gas, NGLs (including propane), and refined petroleum products. 14 Table of Contents We cannot predict whether or in what form the cap-and-trade provisions and renewable energy standards in the bill passed by the U.S. House of Representatives will become law. Although it is not possible at this time to predict the impact of the climate change regulatory and legislative initiatives described above, any adopted laws or regulations, or judicial determinations, that restrict or reduce GHG emissions could require us to incur increased operating and product costs and could adversely affect demand for certain of the products and services we provide. The adoption of derivatives legislation by Congress could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) was signed into law. The Dodd-Frank Act regulates derivative transactions, which include certain instruments used in our risk management activities. The Dodd-Frank Act contemplates that most swaps will be required to be cleared through a registered clearing facility and traded on a designated exchange or swap execution facility. There are some exceptions to these requirements for entities that use swaps to hedge or mitigate commercial risk. While we may ultimately be eligible for such exceptions, the scope of these exceptions currently is somewhat uncertain, pending further definition through rulemaking proceedings. Among the other provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that may affect derivative transactions are those relating to establishment of capital and margin requirements for certain derivative participants; establishment of business conduct standards, recordkeeping and reporting requirements; and imposition of position limits. Although the Dodd-Frank Act includes significant new provisions regarding the regulation of derivatives, the impact of those requirements will not be known definitely until regulations have been adopted by the SEC and the Commodities Futures Trading Commission. The new legislation and any new regulations could increase the operational and transactional cost of derivatives contracts and affect the number and/or creditworthiness of available counterparties to us. Risks Inherent in the Ownership of Our Common Units Cash distributions are not guaranteed and may fluctuate with our performance and other external factors. Cash distributions on our common units are not guaranteed, and depend primarily on our cash flow and our cash on hand. Because they are not dependent on profitability, which is affected by non-cash items, our cash distributions might be made during periods when we record losses and might not be made during periods when we record profits. The amount of cash we generate may fluctuate based on our performance and other factors, including: • the impact of the risks inherent in our business operations, as described above; • required principal and interest payments on our debt and restrictions contained in our debt instruments; • issuances of debt and equity securities; 15 Table of Contents • our ability to control expenses; • fluctuations in working capital; • capital expenditures; and • financial, business and other factors, a number which will be beyond our control. Our Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership, as amended (“Partnership Agreement”), gives our Board of Supervisors broad discretion in establishing cash reserves for, among other things, the proper conduct of our business. These cash reserves will affect the amount of cash available for distributions. We have substantial indebtedness. Our debt agreements may limit our ability to make distributions to unitholders, as well as our financial flexibility. As of September 25, 2010, we had total outstanding borrowings of $350.0 million, including $250.0 million of senior notes issued by the Partnership and our wholly-owned subsidiary, Suburban Energy Finance Corporation, and $100.0 million of borrowings outstanding under the Operating Partnership’s revolving credit facility. The payment of principal and interest on our debt will reduce the cash available to make distributions on our common units. In addition, we will not be able to make any distributions to our unitholders if there is, or after giving effect to such distribution, there would be, an event of default under the indenture governing the senior notes. The amount of distributions that the Partnership makes to its unitholders is limited by the senior notes, and the amount of distributions that the Operating Partnership may make to the Partnership is limited by the revolving credit facility. The revolving credit facility and the senior notes both contain various restrictive and affirmative covenants applicable to us and the Operating Partnership, respectively, including (i) restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, and (ii) restrictions on certain liens, investments, guarantees, loans, advances, payments, mergers, consolidations, distributions, sales of assets and other transactions. The revolving credit facility contains certain financial covenants: (a) requiring our consolidated interest coverage ratio, as defined, to be not less than 2.5 to 1.0 as of the end of any fiscal quarter; (b) prohibiting our total consolidated leverage ratio, as defined, from being greater than 4.5 to 1.0 as of the end of any fiscal quarter; and (c) prohibiting the senior secured consolidated leverage ratio, as defined, of the Operating Partnership from being greater than 3.0 to 1.0 as of the end of any fiscal quarter. Under the senior note indenture, we are generally permitted to make cash distributions equal to available cash, as defined, as of the end of the immediately preceding quarter, if no event of default exists or would exist upon making such distributions, and our consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio, as defined, is greater than 1.75 to 1. We and the Operating Partnership were in compliance with all covenants and terms of the senior notes and the revolving credit facility as of September 25, 2010. The amount and terms of our debt may also adversely affect our ability to finance future operations and capital needs, limit our ability to pursue acquisitions and other business opportunities and make our results of operations more susceptible to adverse economic and industry conditions. In addition to our outstanding indebtedness, we may in the future require additional debt to finance acquisitions or for general business purposes; however, credit market conditions may impact our ability to access such financing. If we are unable to access needed financing or to generate sufficient cash from operations, we may be required to abandon certain projects or curtail capital expenditures. Additional debt, where it is available, could result in an increase in our leverage. Our ability to make principal and interest payments depends on our future performance, which is subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control. 16 Table of Contents Unitholders have limited voting rights. A Board of Supervisors manages our operations. Our unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business, including the right to elect the members of our Board of Supervisors every three years and the right to vote on the removal of the general partner. It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our unitholders. Some provisions of our Partnership Agreement may discourage, delay or prevent third parties from acquiring us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our unitholders. For example, our Partnership Agreement contains a provision, based on Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, that generally prohibits the Partnership from engaging in a business combination with a 15% or greater unitholder for a period of three years following the date that person or entity acquired at least 15% of our outstanding common units, unless certain exceptions apply. Additionally, our Partnership Agreement sets forth advance notice procedures for a unitholder to nominate a Supervisor to stand for election, which procedures may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer’s own slate of Supervisors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of the Partnership. These nomination procedures may not be revised or repealed, and inconsistent provisions may not be adopted, without the approval of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the outstanding common units. These provisions may have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by our Board of Supervisors, including discouraging attempts that might result in a premium over the market price of the common units held by our unitholders. Unitholders may not have limited liability in some circumstances. A number of states have not clearly established limitations on the liabilities of limited partners for the obligations of a limited partnership. Our unitholders might be held liable for our obligations as if they were general partners if: • a court or government agency determined that we were conducting business in the state but had not complied with the state’s limited partnership statute; or • unitholders’ rights to act together to remove or replace the General Partner or take other actions under our Partnership Agreement are deemed to constitute “participation in the control” of our business for purposes of the state’s limited partnership statute. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions. Unitholders will not be liable for assessments in addition to their initial capital investment in the common units. Under specific circumstances, however, unitholders may have to repay to us amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Delaware law, we may not make a distribution to unitholders if the distribution causes our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests and nonrecourse liabilities are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. Delaware law provides that a limited partner who receives a distribution of this kind and knew at the time of the distribution that the distribution violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount for three years from the distribution date. Under Delaware law, an assignee who becomes a substituted limited partner of a limited partnership is liable for the obligations of the assignor to make contributions to the partnership. However, such an assignee is not obligated for liabilities unknown to him at the time he or she became a limited partner if the liabilities could not be determined from the partnership agreement. 17 Table of Contents If we issue additional limited partner interests or other equity securities as consideration for acquisitions or for other purposes, the relative voting strength of each unitholder will be diminished over time due to the dilution of each unitholder’s interests and additional taxable income may be allocated to each unitholder. Our Partnership Agreement generally allows us to issue additional limited partner interests and other equity securities without the approval of our unitholders. Therefore, when we issue additional common units or securities ranking on a parity with the common units, each unitholder’s proportionate partnership interest will decrease, and the amount of cash distributed on each common unit and the market price of common units could decrease. The issuance of additional common units will also diminish the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding common unit. In addition, the issuance of additional common units will, over time, result in the allocation of additional taxable income, representing built-in gains at the time of the new issuance, to those unitholders that existed prior to the new issuance. Tax Risks to Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. The Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) could treat us as a corporation, which would substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to unitholders. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We believe that, under current law, we will be classified as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. In addition, current law may change so as to cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity-level federal income taxation. Members of Congress have proposed substantive changes to the current federal income tax laws that would affect certain publicly traded partnerships and legislation that would eliminate partnership tax treatment for certain publicly traded partnerships. Although no legislation is currently pending that would affect our tax treatment as a partnership, we are unable to predict whether any such changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted. Any modification to the U.S. tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would be required to pay tax on our income at corporate tax rates (currently a maximum of U.S. federal rate of 35%) and likely would be required to pay state income tax at varying rates. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, our treatment as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. In addition, because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. Any such changes could negatively impact our ability to make distributions and also impact the value of an investment in our common units. A successful IRS contest of the federal income tax positions we take may adversely affect the market for our common units, and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. A unitholder’s tax liability could exceed cash distributions on its common units. Because our unitholders are treated as partners to whom we allocate taxable income which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, a unitholder is required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on its allocable share of our income, even if it receives no cash distributions from us. We cannot guarantee that a unitholder will receive cash distributions equal to its allocable share of our taxable income or even the tax liability to it resulting from that income. 18 Table of Contents Ownership of common units may have adverse tax consequences for tax-exempt organizations and foreign investors. Investment in common units by certain tax-exempt entities and foreign persons raises issues specific to them. For example, virtually all of our taxable income allocated to organizations exempt from federal income tax, including individual retirement accounts and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and thus will be taxable to the unitholder. Distributions to foreign persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and foreign persons will be required to file United States federal tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. Tax-exempt entities and foreign persons should consult their own tax advisors before investing in our common units. There are limits on a unitholder’s deductibility of losses. In the case of taxpayers subject to the passive loss rules (generally, individuals and closely held corporations), any losses generated by us will only be available to offset our future income and cannot be used to offset income from other activities, including other passive activities or investments. Unused losses may be deducted when the unitholder disposes of its entire investment in us in a fully taxable transaction with an unrelated party. A unitholder’s share of our net passive income may be offset by unused losses from us carried over from prior years, but not by losses from other passive activities, including losses from other publicly-traded partnerships. The tax gain or loss on the disposition of common units could be different than expected. A unitholder who sells common units will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and its adjusted tax basis in the common units. Prior distributions in excess of cumulative net taxable income allocated to a common unit which decreased a unitholder’s tax basis in that common unit will, in effect, become taxable income if the common unit is sold at a price greater than the unitholder’s tax basis in that common unit, even if the price is less than the original cost of the common unit. A portion of the amount realized, if the amount realized exceeds the unitholder’s adjusted basis in that common unit, will likely be characterized as ordinary income. Furthermore, should the IRS successfully contest some conventions used by us, a unitholder could recognize more gain on the sale of common units than would be the case under those conventions, without the benefit of decreased income in prior years. Reporting of partnership tax information is complicated and subject to audits. We furnish each unitholder with a Schedule K-1 that sets forth its allocable share of income, gains, losses and deductions. In preparing these schedules, we use various accounting and reporting conventions and adopt various depreciation and amortization methods. We cannot guarantee that these conventions will yield a result that conforms to statutory or regulatory requirements or to administrative pronouncements of the IRS. Further, our income tax return may be audited, which could result in an audit of a unitholder’s income tax return and increased liabilities for taxes because of adjustments resulting from the audit. We treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, uniformity of the economic and tax characteristics of the common units to a purchaser of common units of the same class must be maintained. To maintain uniformity and for other reasons, we have adopted certain depreciation and amortization conventions which may be inconsistent with Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to a unitholder. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of common units, and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to a unitholder’s income tax return. 19 Table of Contents We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations. If the IRS were to challenge this method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. Unitholders may have negative tax consequences if we default on our debt or sell assets. If we default on any of our debt obligations, our lenders will have the right to sue us for non-payment. This could cause an investment loss and negative tax consequences for unitholders through the realization of taxable income by unitholders without a corresponding cash distribution. Likewise, if we were to dispose of assets and realize a taxable gain while there is substantial debt outstanding and proceeds of the sale were applied to the debt, unitholders could have increased taxable income without a corresponding cash distribution. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our common units during any twelve-month period will result in a deemed termination (and reconstitution) of the Partnership for federal income tax purposes which would cause unitholders to be allocated an increased amount of taxable income. We will be deemed to have terminated (and reconstituted) for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our common units within a twelve-month period. Were this to occur, it would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. This would result in unitholders being allocated an increased amount of taxable income. There are state, local and other tax considerations for our unitholders. In addition to United States federal income taxes, unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, such as state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property, even if the unitholder does not reside in any of those jurisdictions. A unitholder will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property and may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. It is the responsibility of each unitholder to file all United States federal, state and local income tax returns that may be required of such unitholder. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 20 Table of Contents 