ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to other information in this report, the following factors should be considered carefully in evaluating an investment in our securities. If any of the risks or uncertainties described in this Form 10-K actually occurs, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The risks and uncertainties described in this Form 10-K are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are unaware or currently deem immaterial may also become important factors that may harm our business. We may not successfully commercialize Gralise, which would harm our business. Although Gralise has been approved for marketing, our ability to generate significant revenue from Gralise requires that we successfully commercialize the product on our own or with the assistance 25 Table of Contents of a collaborative co-promotion or licensing partner. We retained marketing rights to Gralise in March 2011 in connection with the termination of our Gralise exclusive license agreement with Abbott Products, and we do not currently have a collaborative partner to assist us with the commercialization of Gralise. We are a small organization with limited experience selling and marketing pharmaceutical products, and have had little time to build capabilities necessary to commercialize the product. We may not be able to adequately build or maintain the necessary sales, marketing, managed markets or other capabilities on our own required to successfully commercialize Gralise, and we may not enter into arrangements with a collaborative partner or other third parties to perform those functions for us. Also, the establishment and maintenance of those capabilities may require us to divert capital from other intended purposes. Given the small size of our company and the experience and expertise of our current staff, effectively managing a significant number of collaborative partners and third-party contractors may be challenging. If our management of collaborative partners and third-party contractors is not effective, the commercial acceptance and success of Gralise may be delayed or limited. If we enter into a collaborative co-promotion or licensing arrangement related to Gralise, some or all of the revenues we receive will depend upon the efforts of one or more third parties, which may not be successful. We may not be able to obtain orphan drug exclusivity for Gralise in PHN. The FDA has granted Gralise Orphan Drug designation for the management of PHN based on the size of the PHN population and the reduced incidence of adverse events observed in Gralise clinical trials relative to the incidence of adverse events reported in the package insert for immediate release gabapentin. Subsequent to the FDA's approval of Gralise, we were informed additional submissions or evidence to demonstrate the clinical superiority of Gralise based on improved safety will be required to be provided to the FDA in order to obtain a seven-year period of orphan exclusivity in PHN. If we obtain the orphan exclusivity, the FDA may not approve another application to market the same drug for the same indication until January 2018, except in very limited circumstances. If we do not obtain orphan exclusivity for Gralise, the period of market exclusivity in the United States for Gralise may be reduced, which would adversely affect our revenues. If generic manufacturers use litigation and regulatory means to obtain approval for generic versions of our products, our business will suffer. Under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetics Act (FDCA), the FDA can approve an Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA), for a generic version of a branded drug without undertaking the clinical testing necessary to obtain approval to market a new drug. In place of such clinical studies, an ANDA applicant usually needs only to submit data demonstrating that its product has the same active ingredient(s) and is bioequivalent to the branded product, in addition to any data necessary to establish that any difference in strength, dosage form, inactive ingredients, or delivery mechanism does not result in different safety or efficacy profiles, as compared to the reference drug. 26 Table of Contents The FDCA requires an applicant for a drug that relies, at least in part, on the patent of one of our branded drugs to notify us of their application and potential infringement of our patent rights. Upon receipt of this notice we have 45 days to bring a patent infringement suit in federal district court against the company seeking approval of a product covered by one of our patents. The discovery, trial and appeals process in such suits can take several years. If such a suit is commenced, the FDCA provides a 30-month stay on the FDA's approval of the competitor's application. Such litigation is often time-consuming and quite costly and may result in generic competition if such patent(s) are not upheld or if the generic competitor is found not to infringe such patent(s). If the litigation is resolved in favor of the applicant or the challenged patent expires during the 30-month stay period, the stay is lifted and the FDA may thereafter approve the application based on the standards for approval of ANDAs. In November 2009, we filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California against Lupin for infringement of U.S. Patent Nos. 6,340,475; 6,488,962; 6,635,280; and 6,723,340 listed in the Orange Book for Glumetza. The lawsuit is in response to an ANDA filed by Lupin with the FDA regarding Lupin's intent to market generic versions of the 500mg and 1000mg strengths of Glumetza prior to the expiration date of the asserted patents. We commenced the lawsuit against Lupin within the applicable 45 day period required to automatically stay, or bar, the FDA from approving Lupin's ANDA for 30 months or until a district court decision that is adverse to the asserted patents, whichever may occur earlier. The 30-month stay expires in May 2012. If the litigation is still ongoing after expiration of the applicable 30-month stay, the termination of the stay could result in the introduction of one or more products generic to Glumetza prior to resolution of the litigation. The filing of the Lupin ANDA described above, or any other ANDA in respect to any of our products could have an adverse impact on our stock price. Moreover, if the patents covering our products were not upheld in litigation or if a generic competitor is found not to infringe these patents, the resulting generic competition would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our prior clinical trials evaluating Serada for menopausal hot flashes failed to meet all of their primary endpoints and there can be no assurance this product will be approved for marketing. In October 2009, our Phase 3 trials evaluating Serada for menopausal hot flashes failed to meet all of their primary endpoints. In December 2009, we met and discussed with the FDA the results of the trials and any additional clinical development that may be required to complete the program and obtain regulatory approval to market Serada in the United States. We initiated an additional Phase 3 trial for Serada in August 2010, known as Breeze 3. There can be no assurance the results of the Breeze 3 trial will demonstrate the product candidate is sufficiently safe and effective to obtain approval for marketing. We will incur significant additional expenses and will not know for at least another 9 to 12 months whether a New Drug Application could be submitted to the FDA to be approved for marketing. Clinical development is a long, expensive and uncertain process and is subject to delays. Positive or encouraging results of prior clinical trial are not necessarily indicative of the results we will obtain in later clinical trials. Accordingly, our additional Phase 3 trial may not demonstrate that Serada is effective for menopausal hot flashes. In addition, data obtained from pivotal clinical trials are susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Many other factors could delay or result in termination of our clinical trials, including: •negative or inconclusive results; •patient noncompliance with the protocol; •adverse medical events or side effects among patients during the clinical trials; 27 Table of Contents •FDA inspections of our clinical operations; and •real or perceived lack of effectiveness or safety of the product candidate. We depend heavily on Santarus, Inc. for the successful commercialization of Glumetza in the United States. In July 2008, we entered into a promotion agreement with Santarus, Inc. pursuant to which Santarus will promote Glumetza in the United States through its sales force beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008. Under the agreement, in exchange for promotion fees, Santarus is required to market and promote Glumetza to physicians in the United States, to deliver annual detail calls to potential Glumetza prescribers, and to maintain a sales force of a minimum size. Although we have retained rights to promote Glumetza to obstetricians/gynecologists, or ob/gyns, and to retain a significant portion of the revenues from incremental sales generated by ob/gyns we call upon, ob/gyns generally do not prescribe significant amounts of metformin products. In addition, we do not have any immediate plans to establish a sales force, or contract with a third party to act as our sales force, for the purpose of exercising our Glumetza co-promotion rights. Accordingly, the success of the commercialization of Glumetza will depend in large part on Santarus' marketing and promotion efforts. Other factors that may affect the success of our promotion arrangement with Santarus include the following: •Santarus may acquire or develop alternative products (as it did in the third quarter of 2010); •Santarus may pursue higher-priority programs, or change the focus of its marketing programs; •Santarus may in the future choose to devote fewer resources to Glumetza; •Glumetza may fail to achieve greater market acceptance; •The outcome of our ongoing litigation against Lupin Limited seeking to prevent Lupin from marketing a generic version of Glumetza in the United States; •Santarus may experience financial difficulties; and •Santarus may fail to comply with its obligations under our promotion agreement. In addition to the factors described above, Santarus' business and product revenue have been adversely affected by the introduction of a generic version of its Zegerid® (omeprazole/sodium bicarbonate) prescription products in the third quarter of 2010. Any of the preceding factors could affect Santarus' commitment to the collaboration, which, in turn, could adversely affect the commercial success of Glumetza. Any failure to successfully commercialize Glumetza could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows. We cannot be certain of the extent to which commercialization of Glumetza will continue to be negatively impacted by the recent recall of Glumetza. In June 2010, we initiated a voluntary, wholesaler-level recall of 500mg Glumetza product due to the presence of trace amounts of a chemical called 2,4,6-tribromoanisole, or TBA, in bottles containing 500mg Glumetza tablets. In connection with the recall, we temporarily suspended product shipments of the 500mg Glumetza. We resumed supply of the 500mg Glumetza in January 2011. The supply disruption of the 500mg Glumetza has adversely impacted our product revenue and profitability of Glumetza. In addition, other pharmaceutical companies have encountered complex TBA-related supply issues and the issues may be difficult to remediate. Many of the patients who were previously prescribed Glumetza may be taking other prescription metformin products, and we may not be able to ever regain the lost share of the business. We may also suffer damage to our reputation and face product liability claims. 28 Table of Contents The development of drug candidates is inherently uncertain and we cannot be certain that any of our product candidates will be approved for marketing or, if approved, will achieve market acceptance. We have the following programs in clinical development: Serada for menopausal hot flashes and DM-1992 for Parkinson's. We also have other product candidates in earlier stages of development. Our own product candidates and those of our collaborative partners are subject to the risk that any or all of them may be found to be ineffective or unsafe, or otherwise may fail to receive necessary regulatory clearances. Additionally, clinical trial results in earlier trials may not be indicative of results that will be obtained in subsequent larger trials, as was the case with the Phase 3 trial for Gralise for the management of postherpetic neuralgia that we completed in 2007, and with the Phase 3 trials evaluating Serada for menopausal hot flashes we completed in October 2009. We are unable to predict whether any of these product candidates will receive regulatory clearances or be successfully manufactured or marketed. Further, due to the extended testing and regulatory review process required before marketing clearance can be obtained, the time frames for commercialization of any products are long and uncertain. Even if these other product candidates receive regulatory clearance, our products may not achieve or maintain market acceptance. Also, substantially all of our product candidates use the Acuform technology. If it is discovered that the Acuform technology could have adverse effects or other characteristics that indicate it is unlikely to be effective as a delivery system for drugs or therapeutics, our product development efforts and our business could be significantly harmed. We may incur operating losses in the future. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, we recorded total revenues of $80.8 million, $57.7 million, and $34.8 million, respectively. Collaborative milestones received from Abbott Products, Janssen and Merck resulted in the Company reaching profitability in 2010. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, we incurred net losses of $22.0 million and $15.3 million, respectively. We may incur operating losses in future fiscal years. Any such losses may have an adverse impact on our total assets, shareholders' equity and working capital. Our operating results may fluctuate and affect our stock price. The following factors will affect our operating results and may result in a material adverse effect on our stock price: •the timing of the launch and degree of commercial success of Gralise; •our efforts to secure a commercialization partner for Gralise; •announcements and results regarding clinical trial results and plans for our drug candidates, including Serada; •filings and other regulatory actions related to Serada and our other product candidates; •developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents, infringement allegations and litigation matters; •decisions by collaborative partners to proceed or not to proceed with subsequent phases of a collaboration or program; •the degree of commercial success of Glumetza; •adverse events related to our products, including recalls; •interruptions of manufacturing or supply, or other manufacture or supply difficulties; 29 Table of Contents •the outcome of our patent infringement litigation against Lupin for Glumetza; •variations in revenues obtained from collaborative agreements, including milestone payments, royalties, license fees and other contract revenues; •market acceptance of the Acuform technology; •adoption of new technologies by us or our competitors; •the introduction of new products by our competitors; •the status of our compliance with laws and regulations applicable to the commercialization of pharmaceutical products; •any limitations to access to physician prescription data, which may make our marketing efforts more effective; •manufacturing costs; •third-party reimbursement policies; and •the status of our compliance with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As a result of these factors, our stock price may continue to be volatile and investors may be unable to sell their shares at a price equal to, or above, the price paid. Additionally, any significant drops in our stock price, such as the one we experienced following the announcement of our Serada Phase 3 trial results in October 2009, could give rise to shareholder lawsuits, which are costly and time consuming to defend against and which may adversely affect our ability to raise capital while the suits are pending, even if the suits are ultimately resolved in our favor. Our collaborative arrangements may give rise to disputes over commercial terms, contract interpretation and ownership of our intellectual property and may adversely affect the commercial success of our products. We currently have collaboration or license arrangements with Santarus, Covidien, Merck, Janssen, Boehringer Ingelheim, and PharmaNova. In addition, we have in the past and may in the future enter into other collaborative arrangements, some of which have been based on less definitive agreements, such as memoranda of understanding, material transfer agreements, options or feasibility agreements. We may not execute definitive agreements formalizing these arrangements. Collaborative relationships are generally complex and may give rise to disputes regarding the relative rights, obligations and revenues of the parties, including the ownership of intellectual property and associated rights and obligations, especially when the applicable collaborative provisions have not been fully negotiated and documented. Such disputes can delay collaborative research, development or commercialization of potential products, and can lead to lengthy, expensive litigation or arbitration. The terms of collaborative arrangements may also limit or preclude us from developing products or technologies developed pursuant to such collaborations. Additionally, the collaborators under these arrangements might breach the terms of their respective agreements or fail to prevent infringement of the licensed patents by third parties. Moreover, negotiating collaborative arrangements often takes considerably longer to conclude than the parties initially anticipate, which could cause us to enter into less favorable agreement terms that delay or defer recovery of our development costs and reduce the funding available to support key programs. We may be unable to enter into future collaborative arrangements on acceptable terms, which could harm our ability to develop and commercialize our current and potential future products. Further, even if we do enter into collaboration arrangements, it is possible that our collaborative partners may not choose to develop and commercialize products using the Acuform technology. Other 30 Table of Contents factors relating to collaborations that may adversely affect the commercial success of our products include: •any parallel development by a collaborative partner of competitive technologies or products; •arrangements with collaborative partners that limit or preclude us from developing products or technologies; •premature termination of a collaboration agreement; or •Failure by a collaborative partner to devote sufficient resources to the development and commercial sales of products using the Acuform technology. Our collaborative arrangements do not necessarily restrict our collaborative partners from competing with us or restrict their ability to market or sell competitive products. Our current and any future collaborative partners may pursue existing or other development-stage products or alternative technologies in preference to those being developed in collaboration with us. Our collaborative partners may also terminate their collaborative relationships with us or otherwise decide not to proceed with development and commercialization of our products. Our credit facility contains operating covenants that may restrict our business and financing activities. We entered into a $15.0 million credit facility with Oxford Finance Corporation and General Electric Capital Corporation in June 2008. We have drawn $9.4 million under the facility and will not make any further draws under the facility. As of December 31, 2010, we have $2.2 million of principal outstanding under the facility. The credit facility is secured by a pledge of all of our assets other than intellectual property, and contains a variety of operational covenants, including limitations on our ability to incur liens or additional debt, make dispositions, pay dividends, redeem our stock, make certain investments and engage in certain merger, consolidation or asset sale transactions and transactions with affiliates, among other restrictions. Any future debt financing we enter into may involve similar or more restrictive covenants affecting our operations. Our borrowings under the credit facility or any future debt financing will need to be repaid, which creates additional financial risk for our company, particularly if our business, or prevailing financial market conditions, are not conducive to paying off or refinancing our outstanding debt obligations. Furthermore, our failure to comply with the covenants in the credit facility could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all or a substantial portion of our debt, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash position and significantly harm our business. Our existing resources may not be sufficient to fund our operations until such time as we may be able to consistently generate sufficient revenues to support our operations. Our existing capital resources may not be sufficient to fund our operations until such time as we may be able to generate sufficient revenues to consistently support our operations. We currently have no other committed sources of capital. To the extent that our capital resources are insufficient to meet our future capital requirements, in order to continue our development programs, we will have to raise additional funds through the sale of our equity securities, through debt financing, or from development and licensing arrangements. We may be unable to raise such additional capital on favorable terms, or at all. If we raise additional capital by selling our equity or convertible debt securities, the issuance of such securities could result in dilution of our shareholders' equity positions. If adequate funds are not available we may have to: •delay, postpone or terminate clinical trials; •significantly curtail commercialization of our marketed products or other operations; and/or •obtain funds through entering into collaboration agreements on unattractive terms. 31 Table of Contents We may be unable to protect our intellectual property and may be liable for infringing the intellectual property of others. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our products and technologies, and to preserve our trade secrets. Our policy is to seek to protect our proprietary rights, by, among other methods, filing patent applications in the United States and foreign jurisdictions to cover certain aspects of our technology. We hold issued United States patents, and have patent applications pending in the United States. In addition, we are preparing patent applications relating to our expanding technology for filing in the United States and abroad. We have also applied for patents in numerous foreign countries. Some of those countries have granted our applications and other applications are still pending. Our pending patent applications may lack priority over others' applications or may not result in the issuance of patents. Even if issued, our patents may not be sufficiently broad to provide protection against competitors with similar technologies and may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing related products or may not provide us with competitive advantages against competing products. We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how, which are difficult to protect. We seek to protect such information, in part, through entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, collaborative partners and others before such persons or entities have access to our proprietary trade secrets and know-how. These confidentiality agreements may not be effective in certain cases, due to, among other things, the lack of an adequate remedy for breach of an agreement or a finding that an agreement is unenforceable. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. Our ability to develop our technologies and to make commercial sales of products using our technologies also depends on not infringing others' patents or other intellectual property rights. We are not aware of any intellectual property claims against us. However, the pharmaceutical industry has experienced extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. For example, Pfizer has initiated several suits against companies marketing generic gabapentin products, claiming that these products infringe Pfizer's patents. The results of this litigation could adversely impact the commercialization of pharmaceutical products that contain gabapentin as an active pharmaceutical ingredient. Also, patents issued to third parties relating to sustained release drug formulations or particular pharmaceutical compounds could in the future be asserted against us, although we believe that we do not infringe any valid claim of any patents. If claims concerning any of our products were to arise and it was determined that these products infringe a third party's proprietary rights, we could be subject to substantial damages for past infringement or be forced to stop or delay our activities with respect to any infringing product, unless we can obtain a license, or we may have to redesign our product so that it does not infringe upon others' patent rights, which may not be possible or could require substantial funds or time. Such a license may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we, our collaborators or our licensors were able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which could give our competitors access to the same intellectual property. In addition, any public announcements related to litigation or interference proceedings initiated or threatened against us, even if such claims are without merit, could cause our stock price to decline. From time to time, we may become aware of activities by third parties that may infringe our patents. Infringement by others of our patents may reduce our market shares (if a related product is approved) and, consequently, our potential future revenues and adversely affect our patent rights if we do not take appropriate enforcement action. We may need to engage in litigation in the future to enforce any patents issued or licensed to us or to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights. Our issued or licensed patents may not be held valid by a court of competent jurisdiction. Whether or not the outcome of litigation is favorable to us, defending a lawsuit takes significant time, may be expensive and may divert management attention from other business concerns. We may also be required to participate in interference proceedings declared by the United States 32 Table of Contents Patent and Trademark Office for the purpose of determining the priority of inventions in connection with our patent applications or other parties' patent applications. Adverse determinations in litigation or interference proceedings could require us to seek licenses which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or subject us to significant liabilities to third parties. If we need but cannot obtain a license, we may be prevented from marketing the affected product. Our licensed patent covering the use of gabapentin to treat hot flashes associated with menopause is a method-of-use patent, which increases the risk that prescriptions for gabapentin to treat hot flashes in menopausal women could be written for, or filled with, generic gabapentin. We have an exclusive sublicense from PharmaNova, Inc. to a patent held by the University of Rochester to develop and commercialize in the United States a gabapentin product for the treatment of hot flashes associated with menopause. Because a method-of-use patent, such as the patent we have sublicensed from PharmaNova, covers only a specified use of a particular compound, not a particular composition of matter, we cannot prevent others from commercializing gabapentin. Accordingly, physicians could prescribe another manufacturer's gabapentin to treat hot flashes in menopausal women rather than Serada, or pharmacists could seek to fill prescriptions for Serada with another manufacturer's gabapentin. Although any such "off-label" use could violate our licensed patent, effectively monitoring compliance with our licensed patent may be difficult and costly. It is difficult to develop a successful product. If we do not continue to develop successful products, our financial position and liquidity will be adversely affected. The drug development process is costly, time-consuming and subject to unpredictable delays and failures. Before we or others make commercial sales of products using the Acuform technology, other than Gralise and Glumetza, we, our current and any future collaborative partners will need to: •conduct preclinical and clinical tests showing that these products are safe and effective; and •obtain regulatory approval from the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities. We will have to curtail, redirect or eliminate our product development programs if we or our collaborative partners find that: •the Acuform technology has unintended or undesirable side effects; or •product candidates that appear promising in preclinical or early-stage clinical studies do not demonstrate efficacy in later-stage, larger scale clinical trials. Even when or if our products obtain regulatory approval, successful commercialization requires: •market acceptance; •cost-effective commercial scale production; and •reimbursement under private or governmental health plans. Any material delay or failure in the governmental approval process and/or the successful commercialization of our potential products could adversely impact our financial position and liquidity. If we do not achieve our projected development and commercialization goals in the timeframes we announce and expect, the commercialization of our product candidates may be delayed and our business will be harmed and our stock price may decline. For planning purposes, we sometimes estimate the timing of the accomplishment of various scientific, clinical, regulatory and other product development and commercialization goals. These milestones may include our expectations regarding the commercial launch of our products by us or our 33 Table of Contents licensees, and the commencement or completion of scientific studies and clinical trials and the submission or approval of regulatory filings. From time to time, we may publicly announce the expected timing of some of these milestones, such as the completion of an ongoing clinical trial, the initiation of other clinical programs, or the commercial launch of products. All of these milestones are based on a variety of assumptions. The actual timing of these milestones can vary considerably from our estimates depending on numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: •the efforts of our marketing partners with respect to the commercialization of our products; •the rate of progress, costs and results of our clinical trial and research and development activities, including the extent of scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians and clinical institutions and our ability to identify and enroll patients who meet clinical trial eligibility criteria; •our receipt of approvals by the FDA and other regulatory agencies and the timing thereof; •other actions by regulators; •our ability to access sufficient, reliable and affordable supplies of components used in the manufacture of our product candidates, including materials for our Acuform technology; •our available capital resources; and •the costs of ramping up and maintaining manufacturing operations, as necessary. If we fail to achieve our announced milestones in the timeframes we announce and expect, our business and results of operations may be harmed and the price of our stock may decline. We depend on clinical investigators and clinical sites to enroll patients in our clinical trials and other third parties to manage the trials and to perform related data collection and analysis, and, as a result, we may face costs and delays outside of our control. We rely on clinical investigators and clinical sites to enroll patients and other third parties to manage our trials and to perform related data collection and analysis. However, we may be unable to control the amount and timing of resources that the clinical sites that conduct the clinical testing may devote to our clinical trials. If our clinical investigators and clinical sites fail to enroll a sufficient number of patients in our clinical trials or fail to enroll them on our planned schedule, we will be unable to complete these trials or to complete them as planned, which could delay or prevent us from obtaining regulatory approvals for our product candidates. Our agreements with clinical investigators and clinical sites for clinical testing and for trial management services place substantial responsibilities on these parties, which could result in delays in, or termination of, our clinical trials if these parties fail to perform as expected. For example, if any of our clinical trial sites fail to comply with FDA-approved good clinical practices, we may be unable to use the data gathered at those sites. If these clinical investigators, clinical sites or other third parties do not carry out their contractual duties or obligations or fail to meet expected deadlines, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to their failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or for other reasons, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated, and we may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for, or successfully commercialize, our product candidates. If we are unable to obtain or maintain regulatory approval, we will be limited in our ability to commercialize our products, and our business will be harmed. The regulatory process is expensive and time consuming. Even after investing significant time and expenditures on clinical trials, we may not obtain regulatory approval of our product candidates. Data obtained from clinical trials are susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or 34 Table of Contents prevent regulatory approval, and the FDA may not agree with our methods of clinical data analysis or our conclusions regarding safety and/or efficacy. Significant clinical trial delays could impair our ability to commercialize our products and could allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do. In addition, changes in regulatory policy for product approval during the period of product development and regulatory agency review of each submitted new application may cause delays or rejections. Even if we receive regulatory approval, this approval may entail limitations on the indicated uses for which we can market a product. For example, the active ingredients in the products utilizing our Acuform delivery technology that are being developed pursuant to our collaboration with Covidien include acetaminophen in combination with opiates. In connection with concerns that consumers may inadvertently take more than the recommended daily dose of acetaminophen, potentially causing liver damage, an FDA advisory committee has recommended that prescription products containing acetaminophen in combination with prescription analgesics (including opiates) should include black box warnings and/or be removed from the market. The FDA is evaluating the recommendations and has indicated that such an evaluation will take some time. The FDA is not required to accept advisory committee recommendations. Covidien's ability or willingness to develop and market the products subject to our collaboration may be adversely affected by actions of the FDA in response to the advisory committee recommendations. Further, with respect to our approved products, once regulatory approval is obtained, a marketed product and its manufacturer are subject to continual review. The discovery of previously unknown problems with a product or manufacturer may result in restrictions on the product, manufacturer or manufacturing facility, including withdrawal of the product from the market. Manufacturers of approved products are also subject to ongoing regulation and inspection, including compliance with FDA regulations governing current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP). The FDCA, the Controlled Substances Act and other federal and foreign statutes and regulations govern and influence the testing, manufacturing, packing, labeling, storing, record keeping, safety, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of our products. The failure to comply with these regulations can result in, among other things, warning letters, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, non-renewal of marketing applications or criminal prosecution. We are also required to report adverse events associated with our products to the FDA and other regulatory authorities. Unexpected or serious health or safety concerns could result in labeling changes, recalls, market withdrawals or other regulatory actions. Recalls may be issued at our discretion or at the discretion of the FDA or other empowered regulatory agencies. For example, in June 2010, we instituted a voluntary class 2 recall of 52 lots of our 500mg Glumetza product after chemical traces of 2,4,6-tribromoanisole or TBA were found in the product bottle. We cannot be certain that the FDA will determine that we adequately addressed the matters that led to this recall or that the FDA will not seek to impose fines or sanctions against us as a result of this recall. Any such fines or sanctions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to risks associated with NDAs submitted under Section 505(b)(2) of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. The products we develop generally are or will be submitted for approval under Section 505(b)(2) of the FDCA which was enacted as part of the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, otherwise known as the Hatch-Waxman Act. Section 505(b)(2) permits the submission of an NDA where at least some of the information required for approval comes from studies not conducted by or for the applicant and for which the applicant has not obtained a right of reference. For instance, the NDA for Gralise relies on the FDA's prior approval of Neurontin® (gabapentin), the immediate release formulation of gabapentin initially approved by the FDA. An NDA for Serada would also rely in part on the FDA's prior approval of Neurontin®. 35 Table of Contents For NDAs submitted under Section 505(b)(2) of the FDCA, the patent certification and related provisions of the Hatch-Waxman Act apply. In accordance with the Hatch-Waxman Act, such NDAs may be required to includes certifications, known as "Paragraph IV certifications," that certify any patents listed in the FDA's Orange Book publication in respect to any product referenced in the 505(b)(2) application, are invalid, unenforceable, and/or will not be infringed by the manufacture, use, or sale of the product that is the subject of the 505(b)(2) application. Under the Hatch-Waxman Act, the holder of the NDA which the 505(b)(2) application references may file a patent infringement lawsuit after receiving notice of the Paragraph IV certification. Filing of a patent infringement lawsuit triggers a one-time automatic 30-month stay of the FDA's ability to approve the 505(b)(2) application. Accordingly, we may invest a significant amount of time and expense in the development of one or more products only to be subject to significant delay and patent litigation before such products may be commercialized, if at all. A Section 505(b)(2) application may also not be approved until any non-patent exclusivity, such as exclusivity for obtaining approval of a new chemical entity, listed in the Orange Book for the referenced product has expired. The FDA may also require us to perform one or more additional clinical studies or measurements to support the change from the approved product. The FDA may then approve the new formulation for all or only some of the indications sought by us. The FDA may also reject our future Section 505(b)(2) submissions and require us to file such submissions under Section 501(b)(1) of the FDCA, which could be considerably more expensive and time consuming. These factors, among others, may limit our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates. Pharmaceutical marketing is subject to substantial regulation in the United States. All marketing activities associated with Gralise and Glumetza, as well as marketing activities related to any other products for which we obtain regulatory approval, will be subject to numerous federal and state laws governing the marketing and promotion of pharmaceutical products. The FDA regulates post-approval promotional labeling and advertising to ensure that they conform to statutory and regulatory requirements. In addition to FDA restrictions, the marketing of prescription drugs is subject to laws and regulations prohibiting fraud and abuse under government healthcare programs. For example, the federal healthcare program antikickback statute prohibits giving things of value to induce the prescribing or purchase of products that are reimbursed by federal healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. In addition, federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government. Under this law, the federal government in recent years has brought claims against drug manufacturers alleging that certain marketing activities caused false claims for prescription drugs to be submitted to federal programs. Many states have similar statutes or regulations, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in some states, regardless of the payer. If we, or our collaborative partners, fail to comply with applicable FDA regulations or other laws or regulations relating to the marketing of our products, we could be subject to criminal prosecution, civil penalties, seizure of products, injunction, and exclusion of our products from reimbursement under government programs, as well as other regulatory actions against our product candidates, our collaborative partners or us. We may incur significant liability if it is determined that we are promoting or have in the past promoted the "off-label" use of drugs. Companies may not promote drugs for "off-label" uses—that is, uses that are not described in the product's labeling and that differ from those approved by the FDA. Physicians may prescribe drug products for off-label uses, and such off-label uses are common across some medical specialties. Although the FDA and other regulatory agencies do not regulate a physician's choice of treatments, the FDCA and FDA regulations restrict communications on the subject of off-label uses of drug products by pharmaceutical companies. The Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health 36 Table of Contents and Human Services (OIG), the FDA, and the Department of Justice (DOJ) all actively enforce laws and regulations prohibiting promotion of off-label uses and the promotion of products for which marketing clearance has not been obtained. A company that is found to have improperly promoted off-label uses may be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies as well as criminal sanctions. Notwithstanding the regulatory restrictions on off-label promotion, the OIG, the FDA, and DOJ allow companies to engage in truthful, non-misleading, and non-promotional speech concerning their products. If the OIG or the FDA takes the position that we are not in compliance with such requirements, and, if such non-compliance is proven, we may be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies, as well as criminal sanctions. In addition, management's attention could be diverted from our business operations and our reputation could be damaged. The approval process outside the United States is uncertain and may limit our ability to develop, manufacture and sell our products internationally. To market any of our products outside of the United States, we and our collaborative partners, including Janssen, Merck, Boehringer Ingelheim and Madaus, are subject to numerous and varying foreign regulatory requirements, implemented by foreign health authorities, governing the design and conduct of human clinical trials and marketing approval for drug products. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval set forth above, and approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by the health authorities of any other country, nor does the approval by foreign health authorities ensure approval by the FDA. If we or our marketing partners are unable to obtain acceptable prices or adequate reimbursement for our products from third-party payers, we will be unable to generate significant revenues. In both domestic and foreign markets, sales of our product candidates will depend in part on the availability of adequate reimbursement from third-party payers such as: •government health administration authorities; •private health insurers; •health maintenance organizations; •pharmacy benefit management companies; and •other healthcare-related organizations. If reimbursement is not available for our products or product candidates, demand for these products may be limited. Further, any delay in receiving approval for reimbursement from third-party payers could have an adverse effect on our future revenues. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products, including pharmaceuticals. Our products may not be considered cost effective, and adequate third-party reimbursement may be unavailable to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an acceptable return on our investment. Federal and state governments in the United States and foreign governments continue to propose and pass new legislation designed to contain or reduce the cost of healthcare. Existing regulations affecting pricing may also change before many of our product candidates are approved for marketing. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price that we receive for any product we may develop. 37 Table of Contents We may be unable to compete successfully in the pharmaceutical product and drug delivery technology industries. Other companies that have oral drug delivery technologies competitive with the Acuform technology include Elan Corporation, Bristol-Myers Squibb, TEVA Pharmaceutical Industries, Ltd., Johnson & Johnson, SkyePharma plc, Flamel Technologies S.A., Ranbaxy Laboratories, Ltd., and Intec Pharma, all of which develop oral tablet products designed to release the incorporated drugs over time. Each of these companies has patented technologies with attributes different from ours, and in some cases with different sites of delivery to the gastrointestinal tract. Bristol-Myers Squibb is currently marketing a sustained release formulation of metformin, Glucophage XR, with which Glumetza competes. The limited license that Bristol-Myers Squibb obtained from us under our November 2002 settlement agreement extends to certain current and internally-developed future compounds, which may increase the likelihood that we will face competition from Bristol-Myers Squibb in the future on products in addition to Glumetza. Several other companies, including Shinogi & Co., Ltd., Barr Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Mylan Laboratories, Inc. and Teva Pharmaceutical Industries, Ltd. have received FDA approval for and are selling a controlled-release metformin product. There may be other companies developing products competitive with Glumetza of which we are unaware. Gabapentin is currently marketed by Pfizer as Neurontin® for adjunctive therapy for epileptic seizures and for postherpetic pain. Pfizer's basic U.S. patents relating to Neurontin have expired, and numerous companies have received approval to market generic versions of the immediate release product. In addition, Pfizer has developed Lyrica® (pregabalin), which has been approved for marketing in the United States and the European Union. Competition in pharmaceutical products and drug delivery systems is intense. We expect competition to increase. Competing technologies or products developed in the future may prove superior to the Acuform technology or products using the Acuform technology, either generally or in particular market segments. These developments could make the Acuform technology or products using the Acuform technology noncompetitive or obsolete. Most of our principal competitors have substantially greater financial, sales, marketing, personnel and research and development resources than we do. In addition, many of our potential collaborative partners have devoted, and continue to devote, significant resources to the development of their own drug delivery systems and technologies. We depend on third parties who are single source suppliers to manufacture Glumetza, Gralise and our other product candidates. If these suppliers are unable to manufacture Glumetza, Gralise or our product candidates, our business will be harmed. We are responsible for the supply and distribution of Glumetza, and Patheon is our sole supplier for tablets of the 500mg strength of Glumetza pursuant to a supply agreement we entered into with Patheon in December 2006. Valeant is our sole supplier for the 1000mg formulation Glumetza. We will be unable to manufacture Glumetza in a timely manner if we are unable to obtain 500mg Glumetza tablets from our contract manufacturer, active pharmaceutical ingredient from suppliers, or excipient suppliers, or 1000mg Glumetza tablets from Valeant. Patheon is also our sole supplier for Gralise and Serada tablets. We currently have no long-term supply arrangement with respect to Gralise or Serada. Any failure to obtain Gralise or Serada tablets from Patheon, active pharmaceutical ingredient from suppliers, or excipient suppliers, could adversely affect our operating results. 38 Table of Contents We do not have, and we do not intend to establish in the foreseeable future, internal commercial scale manufacturing capabilities. Rather, we intend to use the facilities of third parties to manufacture products for clinical trials and commercialization. Our dependence on third parties for the manufacture of products using the Acuform technology may adversely affect our ability to deliver such products on a timely or competitive basis. The manufacturing processes of our third party manufacturers may be found to violate the proprietary rights of others. If we are unable to contract for a sufficient supply of required products on acceptable terms, or if we encounter delays and difficulties in our relationships with manufacturers, the market introduction and commercial sales of our products will be delayed, and our future revenue will suffer. A successful product liability claim against us could materially harm our business. Our business involves exposure to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the development and production of pharmaceutical products. We have obtained product liability insurance for clinical trials currently underway and forecasted 2011 sales of our products, but: •we may be unable to obtain product liability insurance for future trials; •we may be unable to obtain product liability insurance for future products; •we may be unable to maintain product liability insurance on acceptable terms; •we may be unable to secure increased coverage as the commercialization of the Acuform technology proceeds; or •our insurance may not provide adequate protection against potential liabilities. Our inability to obtain adequate insurance coverage at an acceptable cost could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of our products. Defending a lawsuit could be costly and significantly divert management's attention from conducting our business. If third parties were to bring a successful product liability claim or series of claims against us for uninsured liabilities or in excess of insured liability limits, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. Our success is dependent in large part upon the continued services of our CEO and senior management with whom we do not have employment agreements. Our success is dependent in large part upon the continued services of our President and Chief Executive Officer, Carl A. Pelzel, and other members of our executive management team, and on our ability to attract and retain key management and operating personnel. We do not have agreements with Mr. Pelzel or any of our other executive officers that provide for their continued employment with us. We may have difficulty filling open senior scientific, financial and commercial positions. Management, scientific and operating personnel are in high demand in our industry and are often subject to competing offers. The loss of the services of one or more members of management or key employees or the inability to hire additional personnel as needed could result in delays in the research, development and commercialization of our products and potential product candidates. If we choose to acquire new and complementary businesses, products or technologies, we may be unable to complete these acquisitions or to successfully integrate them in a cost effective and non-disruptive manner. Our success depends on our ability to continually enhance and broaden our product offerings in response to changing customer demands, competitive pressures and technologies. Accordingly, we may in the future pursue the acquisition of complementary businesses, products or technologies instead of developing them ourselves. We have no current commitments with respect to any acquisition or such investment. We do not know if we would be able to successfully complete any acquisitions, or whether we would be able to successfully integrate any acquired business, product or technology or retain any 39 Table of Contents key employees. Integrating any business, product or technology we acquire could be expensive and time consuming, disrupt our ongoing business and distract our management. If we were to be unable to integrate any acquired businesses, products or technologies effectively, our business would suffer. In addition, any amortization or charges resulting from the costs of acquisitions could harm our operating results. We have implemented certain anti-takeover provisions. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and the California General Corporation Law could discourage a third party from acquiring, or make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, control of our company without approval of our board of directors. These provisions could also limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Certain provisions allow the board of directors to authorize the issuance of preferred stock with rights superior to those of the common stock. We are also subject to the provisions of Section 1203 of the California General Corporation Law which requires a fairness opinion to be provided to our shareholders in connection with their consideration of any proposed "interested party" reorganization transaction. We have adopted a shareholder rights plan, commonly known as a "poison pill". The provisions described above, our poison pill and provisions of the California General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. Increased costs associated with corporate governance compliance may significantly impact our results of operations. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance, public disclosure and compliance practices, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and NASDAQ Global Market rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours in understanding and complying with these laws, regulations and standards. As a result of this uncertainty and other factors, devoting the necessary resources to comply with evolving corporate governance and public disclosure standards has resulted in and may in the future result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention to compliance activities. We also expect these developments to increase our legal compliance and financial reporting costs. In addition, these developments may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. Moreover, we may be unable to comply with these new rules and regulations on a timely basis. These developments could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, or qualified executive officers. We are presently evaluating and monitoring regulatory developments and cannot estimate the timing or magnitude of additional costs we may incur as a result. To the extent these costs are significant, our selling, general and administrative expenses are likely to increase. If we sell shares of our common stock in future financings, existing common shareholders will experience immediate dilution and, as a result, our stock price may go down. As capital raising opportunities present themselves, we may enter into financing arrangements in the future, including the issuance of debt securities, preferred stock or common stock. If we issue common stock or securities convertible into common stock, our common shareholders will experience dilution and this dilution will be greater if we find it necessary to sell securities at a discount to prevailing market prices. 40 Table of Contents If we are unable to satisfy regulatory requirements relating to internal controls, our stock price could suffer. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires companies to conduct a comprehensive evaluation of their internal control over financial reporting. At the end of each fiscal year, we must perform an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting, include in our annual report the results of the evaluation, and have our external auditors publicly attest to such evaluation. If material weaknesses were found in our internal controls in the future, if we fail to complete future evaluations on time, or if our external auditors cannot attest to our future evaluations, we could fail to meet our regulatory reporting requirements and be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal controls, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. Business interruptions could limit our ability to operate our business. Our operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from computer viruses, human error, natural disasters, telecommunications failures, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events. In particular, our corporate headquarters are located in the San Francisco Bay area, which has a history of seismic activity. We have not established a formal disaster recovery plan, and our back-up operations and our business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for losses that occur. A significant business interruption could result in losses or damages incurred by us and require us to cease or curtail our operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 