Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company's business may be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. The United States economy has undergone a severe recession and remains in a period of limited growth and historically high unemployment. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions has been challenged and individuals, local governments and many businesses are experiencing financial difficulties. The Company has been adversely affected by declines in the values of several asset classes. Declining asset values, defaults on mortgages and consumer loans, and the lack of market and investor confidence, as well as other factors, have all combined to decrease the availability of liquidity. Some banks and other lenders have suffered significant losses. The foregoing has significantly weakened the strength and liquidity of many financial institutions worldwide. The Company's financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, is highly dependent upon the business environment in the markets where the Company operates, in the New York metropolitan area and in the United States as a whole. Conditions in these marketplaces remain historically weak, and there can be no assurance that they will improve in the near term. Should such conditions worsen or continue to remain weak, they may continue to adversely affect the credit quality of the Bank's loans, results of operations and financial condition. The Bank’s commercial real estate lending may subject it to greater risk of an adverse impact on operations from a decline in the economy. The credit quality of the Bank's portfolio can have a significant impact on the Company's earnings, results of operations and financial condition. As part of the Company’s strategic plan, it increased its emphasis on commercial real estate loans from 2002 through 2007. Commercial real estate loans are generally viewed as exposing lenders to a greater risk of loss than both one- to four-family and multifamily residential mortgage loans. Because payments on loans secured by commercial real estate are often dependent upon successful operation or management of the collateral properties, as well as the success of the business and retail tenants occupying the properties, repayment of such loans are generally more vulnerable to weak economic conditions. Further, the collateral securing such loans may depreciate over time, be difficult to appraise, or fluctuate in value based upon the rentability, among other commercial factors. The performance of Bank's multifamily and mixed-use loans could be adversely impacted by regulation or a weakened economy Multifamily and mixed use loans involve a greater risk than one- to four- family residential mortgage loans because government regulations such as rent control and rent stabilization laws, which are outside the control of the borrower or the Bank, could impair the value of the security for the loan or the future cash flow of such properties. As a result, rental income might not rise sufficiently over time to satisfy increases in the loan rate at repricing or increases in overhead expenses (e.g., utilities, taxes, etc.). Impaired loans are thus difficult to identify before they become problematic. In addition, if the cash flow from a collateral property is reduced (e.g., if leases are not obtained or renewed), the borrower& #8217;s ability to repay the loan and the value of the security for the loan may be impaired. -38- Extension of credit on multifamily, mixed-use or commercial real estate loans may result from reliance upon inaccurate or misleading information received from the borrower In deciding whether to extend credit on multifamily, mixed-use or commercial real estate loans, the Bank may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of a customer and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. In the event such information is inaccurate or misleading, reliance on it could have a material adverse impact on the Company's business and, in turn, its financial condition and results of operations. Geographic and borrower concentrations could adversely impact financial performance The Company’s financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans, as well as the value of collateral securing those loans, is highly dependent upon business and economic conditions in the United States, particularly in the local New York metropolitan area where the Company conducts substantially all of its business. Conditions in these marketplaces have begun to rebound in recent months after several years of deterioration. Should such conditions fail to continue to improve, they may adversely affect the credit quality of the Bank’s loans, its results of operations and its financial condition. Conditions in the real estate markets in which the collateral for the Bank’s mortgage loans are located strongly influence the level of the Bank’s non-performing loans and the value of its collateral. Real estate values are affected by, among other items, fluctuations in general or local economic conditions, supply and demand, changes in governmental rules or policies, the availability of loans to potential purchasers and acts of nature. Declines in real estate markets have in the past, and may in the future, negatively impact the Company’s results of operations, cash flows, business, financial condition and prospects. In addition, at December 31, 2010 the Bank had six borrowers for which its total lending exposure equaled or exceeded 10% of its capital. Total default by these borrowers could ad versely impact the Bank's financial condition and results of operations. The Bank’s allowance for loan losses may be insufficient. The Bank’s allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level considered adequate by management to absorb losses inherent in its loan portfolio. The amount of inherent loan losses which could be ultimately realized is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, that could be beyond the Bank’s control. Such losses could exceed current estimates. Although management believes that the Bank’s allowance for loan losses is adequate, there can be no assurance that the allowance will be sufficient to satisfy actual loan losses should such losses be realized. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and capital, and may have a material adverse effect on the Bank’s financial condition and results of operations. Increases in interest rates may reduce the Company’s profitability. The Bank’s primary source of income is its net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on its interest earning assets and the interest expense incurred on its interest bearing liabilities. The Bank's one-year interest rate sensitivity gap is the difference between interest rate sensitive assets maturing or repricing within one year and its interest rate sensitive liabilities maturing or repricing within one year, expressed as both a total amount and as a percentage of total assets. At December 31, 2010, the Bank's one year interest rate gap was negative, indicating that the overall level of its interest rate sensitive liabilities maturing or repricing within one year exceeded that of its interest rate sensitive assets maturing or repricing within one year. In a rising int erest rate environment, an institution with a negative gap would generally be expected, absent the effects of other factors, to experience a greater increase in its cost of liabilities relative to its yield on assets, and thus a decline in net interest income from its existing investments and funding sources. Based upon historical experience, if interest rates were to rise, the Bank would expect the demand for multifamily loans to decline. Decreased loan origination volume would likely negatively impact the Bank's interest income. In addition, if interest rates were to rise rapidly and result in an economic decline, the Bank would expect its level of non-performing loans to increase. Such an increase in non-performing loans may result in an increase to the allowance for loan losses and possible increased charge-offs, which would negatively impact the Company's net income. Further, the actual amount of time before mortgage loans and MBS are repaid can be significantly impacted by changes in mortgage redemption rates and market interest rates. Mortgage prepayment, satisfaction and refinancing rates will vary due to several factors, including the regional economy in the area where the underlying mortgages were originated, seasonal factors, and other demographic variables. However, the most significant factors affecting prepayment, satisfaction and refinancing rates are prevailing interest rates, related mortgage refinancing opportunities and competition. The level of mortgage and MBS prepayment, satisfaction and refinancing activity impacts the -39- Company's earnings due to its effect on fee income earned on prepayment and refinancing activities, along with liquidity levels the Company will experience to fund new investments or ongoing operations. As a federally-chartered savings bank, the Bank is required to monitor changes in its NPV, which is the difference between the estimated market value of its assets and liabilities. In addition, the Bank monitors its NPV ratio, which is the NPV divided by the estimated market value of total assets. To monitor its overall sensitivity to changes in interest rates, the Bank simulates the effect of instantaneous changes in interest rates of up to 200 basis points on its assets and liabilities. Interest rates do and will continue to fluctuate, and the Bank cannot predict future FOMC actions or other factors that will cause interest rates to vary. The Company operates in a highly regulated industry and is subject to uncertain risks related to changes in laws, government regulation and monetary policy. The Holding Company and the Bank are subject to extensive supervision, regulation and examination by the OTS, as the Bank's chartering agency, and the FDIC, as its deposit insurer. Such regulation limits the manner in which the Holding Company and Bank conduct business, undertake new investments and activities and obtain financing. This regulation is designed primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance funds and the Bank’s depositors, and not to benefit the Bank or its creditors. The regulatory structure also provides the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies, including policies with respect to capital levels, the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes. ;Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject the Holding Company and Bank to regulatory enforcement action that could result in the assessment of significant civil money penalties against the Holding Company and Bank. For further information regarding the laws and regulations that affect the Holding Company and the Bank, see "Item 1. Business - Regulation - Regulation of Federal Savings Associations," and "Item 1. Business - Regulation - Regulation of Holding Company." The fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its policies determine in significant part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect the Company's net interest margin. Government action can materially decrease the value of the Company's financial assets, such as debt securities, mortgages and MSR. Governmental policies can also adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. Changes in Federal Reserve Board or governmental policies are beyond the Company's control and difficult to predict; consequently, the impact of these changes on the Company's activities and results of operations is difficult to predict. Financial institution regulation has been the subject of significant legislation in recent years, and may be the subject of further significant legislation in the future, none of which is within the control of the Holding Company or the Bank. Significant new laws or changes in, or repeals of, existing laws may cause the Company's results of operations to differ materially. Further, federal monetary policy significantly affects credit conditions for the Company, primarily through open market operations in United States government securities, the discount rate for bank borrowings and reserve requirements for liquid assets. A material change in any of these conditions would have a material impact on the Bank, and therefore, on the Company’s results of operations. In addition, the Company expects to face increased regulation and supervision of the Bank's industry as a result of the financial crisis in the banking and financial markets, and there will be additional requirements and conditions imposed to the extent that it participates in any of the programs established or to be established by the U.S. Department of the Treasury ("Treasury") or by the federal bank regulatory agencies. Such additional regulation and supervision may increase costs and limit the Company's ability to pursue business opportunities. Competition from other financial institutions in originating loans and attracting deposits may adversely affect profitability. The Bank operates in a highly competitive industry that could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes, and continued consolidation. The Bank's retail banking and a significant portion of its lending business are concentrated in the NYC metropolitan area. The NYC banking environment is extremely competitive. The Bank’s competition for loans exists principally from savings banks, commercial banks, mortgage banks and insurance companies. The Bank has faced sustained competition for the origination of multifamily residential and commercial real estate loans. Management anticipates that the current level of competition for multifamily residential and commercial real estate loans will continue for the foreseeable future, and this competition may inhibit the Bank’s ability to maintain its current level and pricing of such loans. -40- Other financial institutions that participated in the TARP Capital Purchase Program and the TLGP may have a source of funding that costs less than market-rate funding available to the Company. The Company has declined to participate in both the TARP Capital Purchase Program and the TLGP. The Bank’s cost of borrowing may be higher than competitors with weaker balance sheets but with TARP and TLGP funding. The Bank’s cost of funding may make it difficult for it to complete with its government-backed competitors. Clients could pursue alternatives to the Bank's deposits, causing the Bank to lose a historically less expensive source of funding. The Bank gathers deposits in direct competition with commercial banks, savings banks and brokerage firms, many among the largest in the nation. In addition, it must also compete for deposit monies against the stock markets, mutual funds, and other securities. Over the previous decade, consolidation in the financial services industry, coupled with the emergence of Internet banking, has altered the deposit gathering landscape and may increase competitive pressures on the Bank. The Bank may not be able to meet the cash flow requirements of its depositors and borrowers or meet its operating cash needs. Liquidity is the ability to meet cash flow needs on a timely basis at a reasonable cost. The liquidity of the Bank is used to make loans and repay deposit liabilities as they become due or are demanded by customers. Liquidity policies and limits are established by the board of directors. The Holding Company's overall liquidity position and the liquidity position of the Bank are regularly monitored to ensure that various alternative strategies exist to cover unanticipated events that could affect liquidity. Funding sources include deposits, repayments of loans and MBS, investment security maturities and redemptions, advances from the FHLBNY and REPOS. The Bank maintains a portfolio of securities that can be used as a secondary source of liquidity. The Bank also can borrow through the Federal Reserve Bank’s discount window. If the Bank was unable to access any of these funding sources when needed, it might be unable to meet customers’ needs, which could adversely impact the Company's financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and level of regulatory capital. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect the Company. The Company's ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. The Company has exposure to many different industries and counterparties. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by the Company or by other institutions. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect the Company's results of operations. Negative public opinion could damage the Company's reputation and adversely impact its business and revenues. As a financial institution, the Bank's earnings and capital are subject to risks associated with negative public opinion. Negative public opinion could result from the Company's actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, the failure of any product or service sold by the Bank to meet customers’ expectations or applicable regulatory requirements, corporate governance and acquisitions, or from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect the Company's ability to attract and/or retain clients and can expose the Company to litigation and regulatory action. Actual or alleged conduct by one of the Company's businesses can result in negative public opinion about its other businesses. Negative public opinion could also affect the Company's credit ratings, which are important to its access to unsecured wholesale borrowings. Significant changes in these ratings could change the cost and availability of these sources of funding. The impact of recently enacted and proposed legislation and government programs to stabilize the financial markets cannot be predicted at this time. During 2008 and 2009, there was unprecedented government intervention in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets, including: · The enactment of the EESA in October 2008, which gave the Treasury the authority, among others, to purchase up to $700 billion of troubled assets from financial institutions; · The announcements shortly thereafter by the Treasury, the FDIC and the FRB, respectively, of (i) the Capital Purchase Program ("CPP"), a $250 billion voluntary capital purchase program under which qualifying financial institutions were given the ability to sell preferred shares to the Treasury, (ii) the TLGP, and (iii) further details of the Commercial Paper Funding Facility ("CPFF"), which provides a broad backstop for the commercial paper market; -41- · The announcement by the Treasury in February 2009 of the Capital Assistance Program ("CAP") under which qualifying financial institutions were provided access to contingent common equity provided by the U.S. government as a bridge to private capital in the future; · The announcement by the federal banking regulators of the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program, under which the federal banking regulators measured the amount of additional capital, if any, each of the 19 largest U.S. bank holding companies would require in order to ensure that it would comfortably exceed minimum regulatory capital requirements at December 31, 2010 (as a result of which many of the nineteen institutions underwent capital raising or restructuring transactions to improve their capital base); and · The March 2009 announcement by the Treasury, in conjunction with the FDIC and the FRB, of the Public-Private Investment Program ("PPIP"), which consists of two discrete components: (1) the Legacy Loan Program, which was designed to facilitate the sale of commercial and residential whole loans and "other assets" currently held by U.S. banks, and (2) the Legacy Securities Program, which was designed to facilitate the sale of legacy residential MBS and commercial MBS initially rated AAA and currently held by Financial Institutions (as defined under the EESA). The Company did not participate in the TLGP, CPP, CPFF or CAP, and does not expect to participate in either PPIP program. Although it appears that there has been some stabilization of the U.S. financial markets as a result of the foregoing programs and other actions taken by the U.S. government, there can be no assurance as to the actual impact that such programs or any other governmental program will have on the financial markets and the economy in the future. The financial market and economic conditions that existed during 2008 and 2009 had, during the year ended December 31, 2010, and to the extent that such conditions continue or worsen, will continue to have, an adverse affect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations, and could also materially and adversely affect the Company's business, access to credit or the trading price of the Holding Company's common stock. In add ition, the Company expects to face increased regulation and supervision of the Bank's industry as a result of the financial crisis in the banking and financial markets, and there will be additional requirements and conditions imposed to the extent that it participates in any of the programs established or to be established by the Treasury or by the federal bank regulatory agencies. Such additional regulation and supervision may increase costs and limit the Company's ability to pursue business opportunities. The FDIC’s restoration plan and the related increased assessment rate schedule may have a further material effect on the Company's results of operations. In February 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule which set the initial base assessment rates beginning April 1, 2009 and provided for the following adjustments to an institution's assessment rate: (1) a decrease for long-term unsecured debt, including most senior and subordinated debt; (2) an increase for secured liabilities above a threshold amount; and (3) for non-Risk Category I institutions, an increase for brokered deposits above a threshold amount. The Bank's deposit insurance assessments totaled $3.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to $899,000 for the year ended December 31, 2008. The FDIC also adopted a final rule in May 2009 imposing a five basis point special assessment on each insured depository institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, which was collected on September 30, 2009. The Bank's FDIC special assessment totaled $1.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. On September 29, 2009, the FDIC adopted an amendment to the restoration plan that increases the deposit insurance assessment rate uniformly across all four risk categories by three basis points (annualized) of insured deposits beginning January 1, 2011. In addition, on November 17, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule that required insured depository institutions to prepay their quarterly deposit insurance assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012 on December 30, 2009, together with their regular deposit insurance assessment for the third quarter of 2009. The Bank's payment on December 30, 2009 totaled approximately $13.4 million, and was $9.6 million as of December 31, 2010. On October 19, 2010, the Board of Directors of the FDIC adopted the Restoration Plan to ensure that the Deposit Insurance Fund reserve ratio reaches 1.35% by September 30, 2020, as required by the Reform Act. Among other matters, the Restoration Plan provides that the FDIC will forego the uniform three basis point increase in initial assessment rates that was previously scheduled to take effect on January 1, 2011 and will maintain the current assessment rate schedule for all insured depository institutions until the reserve ratio reaches 1.15%. The FDIC intends to pursue further rulemaking in 2011 regarding the requirement under the Reform Act that the FDIC offset the effect on institutions with less than $10 billion in assets (such as the Bank) of the requirement that the reserve ratio reach 1.35% by September 30, 2020, rather than 1.15% by the end of 2016 (as required under the prior restoration plan), so that more of the cost of raising the reserve ratio to 1.35% will be borne by institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. -42- There is no guarantee that the higher premiums, special assessment and assessment prepayment described above will be sufficient for the DIF to satisfy its funding requirements, which may result in further special assessments or increases in deposit insurance premiums. Any such future assessments or increases could have a further material impact on the Company's results of operations. The recent adoption of regulatory reform legislation has created uncertainty and may have a material effect on the Company's operations and capital requirements. There are many provisions of the Reform Act which are to be implemented through regulations to be adopted by the federal bank regulatory agencies within specified time frames following the effective date of the Reform Act, which creates a risk of uncertainty as to the ultimate effect of such provisions. Although it is not possible to currently determine whether the Reform Act will have a material effect on the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations, management believes that the following provisions of the Reform Act will impact the Company: The elimination of the Company’s primary federal regulator, the OTS, and the assumption by the OCC of regulatory authority over all federal savings associations, such as the Bank, and the acquisition by the FRB of regulatory authority over all savings and loan holding companies, such as the Holding Company, as well as all subsidiaries of savings and loan holding companies other than depository institutions. Although the laws and regulations currently applicable to the Company generally will not change by virtue of the elimination of the OTS (except to the extent such laws have been modified by the Reform Act), the application of these laws and regulations may vary as administered by the OCC and the FRB. The Reform Act also includes provisions, subject to further rulemaking by the federal bank regulatory agencies, that may affect the Company’s future operations, including provisions that create minimum standards for the origination of mortgages, restrict proprietary trading by banking entities, restrict the sponsorship of and investment in hedge funds and private equity funds by banking entities and that remove certain obstacles to the conversion of savings associations to national banks. The Company will not be able to determine the impact of these provisions until final rules are promulgated to implement these provisions and other regulatory guidance is provided interpreting these provisions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 