ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the specific risk factors set forth below as well as the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report. Some factors in this section are Forward-Looking Statements. See ‘‘Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements’’ above. Risks Inherent in the Ownership of Our Common Units Cash distributions are not guaranteed and may fluctuate with our performance and other external factors. Cash distributions on our Common Units are not guaranteed, and depend primarily on our cash flow and our cash reserves. Because they are not dependent on profitability, which is affected by non-cash items, our cash distributions might be made during periods when we record losses and might not be made during periods when we record profits. The amount of cash we generate may fluctuate based on our performance and other factors, including: • the impact of the risks inherent in our business operations, as described below; • required principal and interest payments on our debt and restrictions contained in our debt instruments; • issuances of debt and equity securities; • our ability to control expenses; • fluctuations in working capital; • capital expenditures; and • financial, business and other factors, a number of which will be beyond our control. Our Partnership Agreement gives our Board of Supervisors broad discretion in establishing cash reserves for, among other things, the proper conduct of our business. These cash reserves will affect the amount of cash available for distributions. We have substantial indebtedness. Our debt agreements may limit our ability to make distributions to Unitholders as well as our financial flexibility. As of September 30, 2006, we had total outstanding borrowings of $548.3 million, including $423.3 million of senior notes issued by the Partnership and our wholly-owned subsidiary, Suburban Energy Finance Corporation, and $125.0 million of borrowings under the Operating Partnership’s revolving credit facility. The payment of principal and interest on our debt will reduce the cash available to make distributions on our Common Units. In addition, we will not be able to make any distributions to our Unitholders if there is, or after giving effect to such distribution, there would be, an event of default under the indenture governing the senior notes. The amount of distributions that the Partnership makes to its Unitholders is limited by the senior notes, and the amount of distributions that the Operating Partnership may make to the Partnership is limited by the revolving credit facility. The amount and terms of our debt may also adversely affect our ability to finance future operations and capital needs, limit our ability to pursue acquisitions and other business opportunities and make our results of operations more susceptible to adverse economic and industry conditions. In addition to our outstanding indebtedness, we may in the future incur additional debt to finance acquisitions or for general business purposes, which could result in a significant increase in our leverage. Our ability to make principal and interest payments depends on our future performance, which is subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control. 12 Table of Contents Unitholders have limited voting rights. A Board of Supervisors manages our operations. Our Unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business, including the right to elect the members of our Board of Supervisors every three years. It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our Unitholders. Some provisions of our Partnership Agreement may discourage, delay or prevent third parties from acquiring us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our Unitholders. For example, our Partnership Agreement contains a provision, based on Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, that generally prohibits the Partnership from engaging in a business combination with a 15% or greater Unitholder for a period of three years following the date that person or entity acquired at least 15% of our outstanding Common Units, unless certain exceptions apply. Additionally, our Partnership Agreement sets forth advance notice procedures for a Unitholder to nominate a Supervisor to stand for election, which procedures may discourage or deter a potential acquiror from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquiror’s own slate of Supervisors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of the Partnership. These nomination procedures may not be revised or repealed, and inconsistent provisions may not be adopted, without the approval of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the outstanding Common Units. These provisions may have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by our Board of Supervisors, including discouraging attempts that might result in a premium over the market price of the Common Units held by our Unitholders. Unitholders may not have limited liability in some circumstances. A number of states have not clearly established limitations on the liabilities of limited partners for the obligations of a limited partnership. Our Unitholders might be held liable for our obligations as if they were general partners if: • a court or government agency determined that we were conducting business in the state but had not complied with the state’s limited partnership statute; or • Unitholders’ rights to act together to remove or replace the General Partner or take other actions under our Partnership Agreement are deemed to constitute ‘‘participation in the control’’ of our business for purposes of the state’s limited partnership statute. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions. Unitholders will not be liable for assessments in addition to their initial capital investment in the Common Units. Under specific circumstances, however, Unitholders may have to repay to us amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Delaware law, we may not make a distribution to Unitholders if the distribution causes our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests and nonrecourse liabilities are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. Delaware law provides that a limited partner who receives a distribution of this kind and knew at the time of the distribution that the distribution violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount for three years from the distribution date. Under Delaware law, an assignee who becomes a substituted limited partner of a limited partnership is liable for the obligations of the assignor to make contributions to the partnership. However, such an assignee is not obligated for liabilities unknown to him at the time he or she became a limited partner if the liabilities could not be determined from the partnership agreement. 13 Table of Contents If we issue additional limited partner interests or other equity securities as consideration for acquisitions or for other purposes, the relative voting strength of each Unitholder will be diminished over time due to the dilution of each Unitholder’s interests and additional taxable income may be allocated to each Unitholder. Our Partnership Agreement generally allows us to issue additional limited partner interests and other equity securities without the approval of our Unitholders. Therefore, when we issue additional Common Units or securities ranking on a parity with the Common Units, each Unitholder’s proportionate partnership interest will decrease, and the amount of cash distributed on each Common Unit and the market price of Common Units could decrease. The issuance of additional Common Units will also diminish the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding Common Unit. In addition, the issuance of additional Common Units will, over time, result in the allocation of additional taxable income, representing built-in gain at the time of the new issuance, to those Common Unitholders that existed prior to the new issuance. Risks Inherent in our Business Operations Since weather conditions may adversely affect demand for propane, fuel oil and other refined fuels and natural gas, our results of operations and financial condition are vulnerable to warm winters. Weather conditions have a significant impact on the demand for propane, fuel oil and other refined fuels and natural gas for both heating and agricultural purposes. Many of our customers rely heavily on propane, fuel oil or natural gas as a heating source. The volume of propane, fuel oil and natural gas sold is at its highest during the six-month peak heating season of October through March and is directly affected by the severity of the winter. Typically, we sell approximately two-thirds of our retail propane volume and approximately three-fourths of our retail fuel oil volume during the peak heating season. Actual weather conditions can vary substantially from year to year, significantly affecting our financial performance. For example, average temperatures in our service territories were 11% warmer than normal for the year ended September 30, 2006 compared to 6% warmer than normal in the prior year, as reported by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (‘‘NOAA’’). During the critical heating months of January and February 2006, average temperatures were 20% warmer than normal. Furthermore, variations in weather in one or more regions in which we operate can significantly affect the total volume of propane, fuel oil and other refined fuels and natural gas we sell and, consequently, our results of operations. Variations in the weather in the northeast, where we have a greater concentration of higher margin residential accounts and substantially all of our fuel oil and natural gas operations, generally have a greater impact on our operations than variations in the weather in other markets. We can give no assurance that the weather conditions in any quarter or year will not have a material adverse effect on our operations, or that our available cash will be sufficient to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness and distributions to Unitholders. Sudden increases in the price of propane, fuel oil and other refined fuels and natural gas due to, among other things, our inability to obtain adequate supplies from our usual suppliers, may adversely affect our operating results. Our profitability in the retail propane, fuel oil and refined fuels and natural gas businesses is largely dependent on the difference between our product cost and retail sales price. Propane, fuel oil and other refined fuels and natural gas are commodities, and the unit price we pay is subject to volatile changes in response to changes in supply or other market conditions over which we have no control, including the severity of winter weather and the price and availability of competing alternative energy sources. In general, product supply contracts permit suppliers to charge posted prices at the time of delivery or the current prices established at major supply points, including Mont Belvieu, Texas, and Conway, Kansas. In addition, our supply from our usual sources may be interrupted due to reasons that are beyond our control. As a result, the cost of acquiring propane, fuel oil and other refined fuels and natural gas from other suppliers might be materially higher at least on a short-term basis. Since we may not be able to pass on to our customers immediately, or in full, all increases in our wholesale cost of propane, fuel oil and other refined fuels and natural gas, these 14 Table of Contents increases could reduce our profitability. We engage in transactions to hedge certain product costs from time to time in an attempt to reduce cost volatility and to help ensure availability of product during periods of short supply. We can give no assurance that future volatility in propane, fuel oil and natural gas supply costs will not have a material adverse effect on our profitability and cash flow, or that our available cash will be sufficient to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness and distributions to our Unitholders. Because of the highly competitive nature of the retail propane and fuel oil businesses, we may not be able to retain existing customers or acquire new customers, which could have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. The retail propane and fuel oil industries are mature and highly competitive. We expect overall demand for propane to remain relatively constant over the next several years, while we expect the overall demand for fuel oil to be relatively flat to moderately declining during the same period. Year-to-year industry volumes of propane and fuel oil are expected to be primarily affected by weather patterns and from competition intensifying during warmer than normal winters. Propane and fuel oil compete in the alternative energy sources market with electricity, natural gas and other existing and future sources of energy, some of which are, or may in the future be, less costly for equivalent energy value. For example, natural gas is a significantly less expensive source of energy than propane and fuel oil. As a result, except for some industrial and commercial applications, propane and fuel oil are generally not economically competitive with natural gas in areas where natural gas pipelines already exist. The gradual expansion of the nation’s natural gas distribution systems has made natural gas available in many areas that previously depended upon propane or fuel oil. Propane and fuel oil compete to a lesser extent with each other due to the cost of converting from one to the other. In addition to competing with other sources of energy, our propane and fuel oil businesses compete with other distributors principally on the basis of price, service, availability and portability. Competition in the retail propane business is highly fragmented and generally occurs on a local basis with other large full-service multistate propane marketers, thousands of smaller local independent marketers and farm cooperatives. Our fuel oil business competes with fuel oil distributors offering a broad range of services and prices, from full service distributors to those offering delivery only. Generally, our existing fuel oil customers, unlike our existing propane customers, own their own tanks. As a result, the competition for these customers is more intense than in our propane business, where our existing customers seeking to switch distributors may face additional transition costs and delays. As a result of the highly competitive nature of the retail propane and fuel oil businesses, our growth within these industries depends on our ability to acquire other retail distributors, open new customer service centers, add new customers and retain existing customers. We believe our ability to compete effectively depends on reliability of service, responsiveness to customers and our ability to control expenses in order to maintain competitive prices. The risk of terrorism and political unrest and the current hostilities in the Middle East may adversely affect the economy and the price and availability of propane, fuel oil and other refined fuels and natural gas. Terrorist attacks and political unrest and the current hostilities in the Middle East may adversely impact the price and availability of propane, fuel oil and other refined fuels and natural gas, as well as our results of operations, our ability to raise capital and our future growth. The impact that the foregoing may have on our industry in general, and on us in particular, is not known at this time. An act of terror could result in disruptions of crude oil or natural gas supplies and markets (the sources of propane and fuel oil), and our infrastructure facilities could be direct or indirect targets. Terrorist activity may also hinder our ability to transport propane, fuel oil and other refined fuels if our means of supply transportation, such as rail or pipeline, become damaged as a result of an attack. A lower level of economic activity could result in a decline in energy consumption, which could adversely affect our revenues or restrict our future growth. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism could also affect our ability to raise capital. Terrorist activity and hostilities in the Middle 15 Table of Contents East could likely lead to increased volatility in prices for propane, fuel oil and other refined fuels and natural gas. We have opted to purchase insurance coverage for terrorist acts within our property and casualty insurance programs, but we can give no assurance that our insurance coverage will be adequate to fully compensate us for any losses to our business or property resulting from terrorist acts. Energy efficiency, general economic conditions and technological advances have affected and may continue to affect demand for propane and fuel oil by our retail customers. The national trend toward increased conservation and technological advances, including installation of improved insulation and the development of more efficient furnaces and other heating devices, has adversely affected the demand for propane and fuel oil by our retail customers which, in turn, has resulted in lower sales volumes to our customers. In addition, recent economic conditions may lead to additional conservation by retail customers to further reduce their heating costs. Future technological advances in heating, conservation and energy generation may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by governmental regulation and associated environmental and health and safety costs. Our business is subject to a wide range of federal, state and local laws and regulations related to environmental and health and safety matters including those concerning, among other things, the investigation and remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater and transportation of hazardous materials. These requirements are complex, changing and tend to become more stringent over time. In addition, we are required to maintain various permits that are necessary to operate our facilities, some of which are material to our operations. There can be no assurance that we have been, or will be, at all times in complete compliance with all legal, regulatory and permitting requirements or that we will not incur material costs or liabilities in the future relating to such requirements. Violations could result in penalties, or the curtailment or cessation of operations. Moreover, currently unknown environmental issues, such as the discovery of additional contamination, may result in significant additional expenditures, and potentially significant expenditures also could be required to comply with future changes to environmental laws and regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof. Such expenditures, if required, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to operating hazards and litigation risks that could adversely affect our operating results to the extent not covered by insurance. Our operations are subject to all operating hazards and risks normally associated with handling, storing and delivering combustible liquids such as propane, fuel oil and other refined fuels. As a result, we have been, and are likely to continue to be, a defendant in various legal proceedings and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. We are self-insured for general and product, workers’ compensation and automobile liabilities up to predetermined amounts above which third-party insurance applies. We cannot guarantee that our insurance will be adequate to protect us from all material expenses related to potential future claims for personal injury and property damage or that these levels of insurance will be available at economical prices, nor that all legal matters that arise will be covered by our insurance programs. If we are unable to make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms or effectively integrate such acquisitions into our operations, our financial performance may be adversely affected. The retail propane and fuel oil industries are mature. We foresee only limited growth in total retail demand for propane and flat to moderately declining retail demand for fuel oil. With respect to our retail propane business, because of the long-standing customer relationships that are typical in our industry, the inconvenience of switching tanks and suppliers and propane’s higher cost relative to other 16 Table of Contents energy sources, such as natural gas, it may be difficult for us to acquire new retail propane customers except through acquisitions. As a result, we expect the success of our financial performance to depend, in part, upon our ability to acquire other retail propane and fuel oil distributors or other energy-related businesses and to successfully integrate them into our existing operations and to make cost saving changes. The competition for acquisitions is intense and we can make no assurance that we will be able to acquire other propane and fuel oil distributors or other energy-related businesses on economically acceptable terms or, if we do, to integrate the acquired operations effectively. Tax Risks to Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. The IRS could treat us as a corporation, which would substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to Unitholders. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our Common Units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We believe that, under current law, we will be classified as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. In addition, current law may change so as to cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity-level federal income taxation. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would be required to pay tax on our income at corporate tax rates (currently a maximum of 35% federal rate) and likely would be required to pay state income tax at varying rates. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our Unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, our treatment as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our Unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our Common Units. A successful IRS contest of the federal income tax positions we take may adversely affect the market for our Common Units, and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to our Unitholders. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our Common Units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our Unitholders because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. A Unitholder’s tax liability could exceed cash distributions on its Common Units. Because our Unitholders are treated as partners to whom we allocate taxable income which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, a Unitholder is required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on its allocable share of our income, even if it receives no cash distributions from us. We cannot guarantee that a Unitholder will receive cash distributions equal to its allocable share of our taxable income or even the tax liability to it resulting from that income. Ownership of Common Units may have adverse tax consequences for tax-exempt organizations and foreign investors. Investment in Common Units by certain tax-exempt entities and foreign persons raises issues specific to them. For example, virtually all of our taxable income allocated to organizations exempt from federal income tax, including individual retirement accounts and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and thus will be taxable to the Unitholder. Distributions to foreign persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and foreign persons will be required to file United States federal tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. 17 Table of Contents There are limits on a Unitholder’s deductibility of losses. In the case of taxpayers subject to the passive loss rules (generally, individuals and closely held corporations), any losses generated by us will only be available to offset our future income and cannot be used to offset income from other activities, including other passive activities or investments. Unused losses may be deducted when the Unitholder disposes of its entire investment in us in a fully taxable transaction with an unrelated party. A Unitholder’s share of our net passive income may be offset by unused losses from us carried over from prior years, but not by losses from other passive activities, including losses from other publicly-traded partnerships. Tax shelter registration could increase the risk of a potential audit by the IRS. We registered as a ‘‘tax shelter’’ under the law in effect at the time of our initial public offering and were assigned tax shelter registration number 96080000050. The issuance of a tax shelter registration number to us does not indicate that a Common Unit investment in us or the claimed tax benefits have been reviewed, examined or approved by the IRS. The tax gain or loss on the disposition of Common Units could be different than expected. A Unitholder who sells Common Units will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized, including its share of our nonrecourse liabilities, and its adjusted tax basis in the Common Units. Prior distributions in excess of cumulative net taxable income allocated to a Common Unit which decreased a Unitholder’s tax basis in that Common Unit will, in effect, become taxable income if the Common Unit is sold at a price greater than the Unitholder’s tax basis in that Common Unit, even if the price is less than the original cost of the Common Unit. A portion of the amount realized, if the amount realized exceeds the Unitholder’s adjusted basis in that Common Unit, will likely be characterized as ordinary income. Furthermore, should the IRS successfully contest some conventions used by us, a Unitholder could recognize more gain on the sale of Common Units than would be the case under those conventions, without the benefit of decreased income in prior years. Reporting of partnership tax information is complicated and subject to audits. We furnish each Unitholder with a Schedule K-1 that sets forth its allocable share of income, gains, losses and deductions. In preparing these schedules, we use various accounting and reporting conventions and adopt various depreciation and amortization methods. We cannot guarantee that these conventions will yield a result that conforms to statutory or regulatory requirements or to administrative pronouncements of the IRS. Further, our income tax return may be audited, which could result in an audit of a Unitholder’s income tax return and increased liabilities for taxes because of adjustments resulting from the audit. We treat each purchaser of our Common Units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual Common Units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the Common Units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of Common Units and because of other reasons, uniformity of the economic and tax characteristics of the Common Units to a purchaser of Common Units of the same class must be maintained. To maintain uniformity and for other reasons, we have adopted certain depreciation and amortization conventions which may be inconsistent with Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to a Unitholder. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of Common Units, and could have a negative impact on the value of our Common Units or result in audit adjustments to a Unitholder’s income tax return. There are state, local and other tax considerations for our Unitholders. In addition to United States federal income taxes, Unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, such as state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property, even if 18 Table of Contents the Unitholder does not reside in any of those jurisdictions. A Unitholder will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property and may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. It is the responsibility of each Unitholder to file all United States federal, state and local income tax returns that may be required of such Unitholder. Unitholders may have negative tax consequences if we default on our debt or sell assets. If we default on any of our debt obligations, our lenders will have the right to sue us for non-payment. This could cause an investment loss and negative tax consequences for Unitholders through the realization of taxable income by Unitholders without a corresponding cash distribution. Likewise, if we were to dispose of assets and realize a taxable gain while there is substantial debt outstanding and proceeds of the sale were applied to the debt, Unitholders could have increased taxable income without a corresponding cash distribution. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in a deemed termination (and reconstitution) of the Partnership for federal income tax purposes which would cause Unitholders to be allocated an increased amount of taxable income. We will be deemed to have terminated (and reconstituted) for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. Were this to occur, it would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all Unitholders and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. This would result in Unitholders being allocated an increased amount of taxable income. 19 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 