ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSThis section identifies specific risks that should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. Any of these risks could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Although we believe that these risks represent the material risks relevant to us, our business and our industry, new material risks may emerge that we are currently unable to predict. As a result, this description of the risks that affect our business and our industry is not exhaustive. The risks discussed below could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical results or the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements as described above.Our entry into the Merger Agreement may have adverse impacts.On February 3, 2014, we announced entry into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement"). Consummation of the Merger Agreement is subject to customary closing conditions, including approval by our stockholders, the absence of any material adverse effect on our business and receiving antitrust approvals (including under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended). It is not certain that these conditions will be met or waived, that the necessary approvals will be obtained, or that we will be able to successfully consummate the merger as provided for under the Merger Agreement, or at all. We face risks and uncertainties due both to the pendency of the Merger as well as the potential failure to consummate the Merger, including:•We will remain liable for significant transaction costs, including legal, financial advisory, accounting, and other costs relating to the Merger even if it is not consummated;•If the Merger Agreement is terminated before we complete the Merger, under some circumstances, we may have to pay a termination fee of $54.9 million;•The pending Merger could have an adverse impact on our relationships with employees, customers and suppliers, and prospective customers or other third parties may delay or decline entering into agreements with us as a result of the announcement of the proposed Merger; and•The attention of our management and employees may be diverted from day-to-day operations. The occurrence of any of these events individually or in combination could have a material adverse effect on our share price, business and cash flows, results of operations and financial position.Our costs have increased due to the restatement of our previous financial statements announced in 2008 and completed in 2009, the Audit Committee's review of certain accounting, financial reporting and insurance billing and healthcare compliance practices and our response to and the settlement of the DOJ investigation by entry into a deferred prosecution agreement (“DPA”). Failure to comply with the DPA could result in severe civil or criminal penalties, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity.As of December 31, 2013, we settled or reached settlement on all known proceedings against the Company arising from the restatement or the Review including the investigation by the Department of Justice, or the DOJ investigation. See Note 10, "Litigation and Contingencies," in the notes to the 2013 consolidated financial statements. We have incurred substantial costs and expenses related to the Audit Committee's review of certain accounting, financial and reporting and insurance billing and healthcare compliance practices, and resulting investigations, proceedings, and indemnity obligations to former officers and to certain other employees and former employees. These matters may continue to divert our management's time and attention periodically and cause us to continue to incur substantial costs and expenses which will be funded without the benefit of further insurance coverage.The Department of Justice ("DOJ") was investigating allegations of securities and related fraud committed under a previous management team. On December 31, 2013, the Company entered into a Deferred Prosecution Agreement (“DPA”) with the DOJ. The DPA will resolve the ongoing investigation by the DOJ regarding allegations of securities and related fraud committed under a previous management team. The DPA is for a 24-month period and requires the Company to maintain an effective compliance program and to make certain reports to the government. Subject to its successful completion, the DOJ agrees that the DPA will expire and that the DOJ will seek dismissal of the criminal information. Compliance with the DPA 11Table of Contentsmay increase the Company’s costs and failure to comply could result in criminal penalties and potential debarment from participation in Federal Healthcare programs.We are subject to substantial government regulation that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our failure to comply with extensive and evolving government regulations and laws could result in enforcement actions and subject us to civil or criminal penalties and materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.Our medical device products and operations are subject to extensive regulation by numerous governmental authorities both in the U.S. and abroad. See "Business—Government Regulation" for further details on such regulation. Government regulations and foreign requirements specific to medical devices are wide ranging and govern, among other things: design, development and manufacturing; testing, labeling and storage; clinical trials; product safety; marketing, sales and distribution; pre-market clearance and approval; record keeping procedures; advertising and promotions; recalls and field corrective actions; post-market surveillance, including reporting of deaths or serious injuries and malfunctions that, if they were to recur, could lead to death or serious injury; and product import and export.During the past several years, the U.S. health care industry has been subject to an increase in governmental regulation at both the federal and state levels. We are subject to numerous federal and state regulations. As part of our internal compliance program, we review our sales and marketing materials, contracts and programs with counsel, and require employees and marketing representatives to participate in regular training. We also have adopted and train our personnel on the Code of Ethics on Interactions with Health Care Professionals promulgated by the Advanced Medical Technology Association or AdvaMed, a leading trade association representing medical device manufacturers. We believe our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the "Code of Ethics") qualifies as a "code of ethics" within the meaning of Section 406 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and under the current Federal Sentencing Guidelines and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General's Compliance Program Guidance for Pharmaceutical Manufacturers (68 FR 23731 (May 5, 2003)) applicable to medical device companies. The Code of Ethics applies to all of our directors, officers, employees and agents and serves as an essential element of our Corporate Compliance Program. However, we can give no assurances that our compliance program will ensure that the Company is in compliance with existing or future applicable laws and regulations. If our compliance program fails to meet its objectives, or if we otherwise fail to comply with existing or future applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties. We devote significant operational and managerial resources to comply with these laws and regulations. Different interpretations and enforcement policies of these laws and regulations could subject our current practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make significant changes to our products and operations. In addition, we cannot predict the impact of future legislation and regulatory changes on our business or assure you that we will be able to obtain or maintain the regulatory approvals required to operate our business.Both federal and state government agencies conduct civil and criminal enforcement efforts against health care companies, as well as their executives and managers. These efforts generally relate to a wide variety of matters, including referral and billing practices, and implicate a variety of state and federal laws, including state insurance fraud provisions, common law fraud theories, as well as both state and federal fraud-and-abuse, anti-kickback, false claims statutes, and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar international anti-bribery laws and regulations with which we must comply. Although we no longer directly bill any payor, some of our prior activities could become the subject of additional governmental investigations or inquiries. In addition, even though we no longer directly bill any payor, we are still subject to health care fraud and abuse laws and regulations, and enforcement thereof by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business.In addition, amendments to the False Claims Act have made it easier for private parties to bring "qui tam" whistleblower lawsuits against companies. Numerous states have adopted similar state whistleblower and false claims provisions. The federal False Claims Act provides incentives for private plaintiffs to initiate lawsuits that lead to the government recovering money of which it was defrauded by providing that a private plaintiff may receive up to 30% of the proceeds from a successful litigation. If we, as a defendant in a qui tam lawsuit, are found to have violated the False Claims Act, we could be subject to treble damages, civil monetary penalties for each false claim submitted and exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. In addition, we could be subject to criminal penalties under a variety of federal statutes to the extent that we knowingly violate legal requirements under federal health programs or otherwise present false or fraudulent claims or documentation to the government.The risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. Moreover, recent health care reform legislation has strengthened these laws. For example, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) which was signed into law in March 2010, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback and criminal health care fraud statutes; a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. The PPACA legislation, among other things, imposed a new excise tax on medical device makers effective January 1, 2013 which resulted in a reduction in our results of operations and our cash flows. Other elements of this legislation such as comparative effectiveness research, an independent payment advisory board, payment system reforms 12Table of Contentsincluding shared savings pilots and other provisions could significantly change the way healthcare is developed and delivered, and may materially impact many aspects of our business. We expect there will continue to be federal and state laws and/or regulations, proposed and implemented, that could impact our operations and business. The extent to which future legislation or regulations if any relating to health care fraud abuse laws and/or enforcement may be enacted or what effect such legislation or regulation would have on our business remains uncertain. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from governmental health care programs, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results.The FDA, DOJ and other governmental authorities have broad enforcement powers, and if our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulatory requirements, or if a governmental authority interprets the legality of one of our practices differently than we do, it could result in governmental agencies or a court taking action, which would adversely affect our business through any of the following: issuing public warning letters to us; imposing fines and penalties on us; obtaining an injunction preventing us from manufacturing or selling our products; bringing civil or criminal charges against us; delaying the introduction of our products into the market; delaying pending requests for clearance or approval of new uses or modifications to our existing products; recalling, detaining or seizing our products; or withdrawing or denying approvals or clearances for our products. For example, we and certain of our third-party suppliers are required to comply with the FDA's Quality System Regulation, ("QSR") which covers the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, sterilization, storage and shipping of our products. We and our suppliers are also subject to the regulations of foreign jurisdictions regarding the manufacturing process if we market our products in these jurisdictions. The FDA enforces the QSR through periodic and unannounced inspections of manufacturing facilities. If our facilities or those of our suppliers fail to take satisfactory corrective action in response to an adverse QSR inspection, the FDA could take enforcement action, including any of the aforementioned actions.Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects.Our ability to compete effectively depends in part on developing and maintaining the proprietary aspects of our Coblation technology and our acquired technologies. We believe that our issued patents are directed at the core technology used in our soft-tissue surgery systems, as well as the use of Coblation technology in specific surgical procedures. In addition, we believe that our issued patents are directed at many of the core features of our acquired technologies (Opus, Atlantech, Applied Therapeutics, Inc., Eleven Blade and ENTrigue Surgical). Our earliest Coblation-related patent expired in January of 2012. The majority of our royalty income is associated with licenses that include core Coblation patent rights which extend through the end of 2015. A portion of license royalty revenue is associated with license grants from patents rights that extend beyond 2017. However, one licensee asserted in early 2012 that their license obligations expired in January 2012. Subsequently, this dispute was resolved and the licensee will continue to pay royalties into 2015. However, other licensees may in the future similarly attempt to assert that their license obligations end at an earlier date than we believe which may lead us to incur significant legal and dispute resolution costs to defend our right to royalties under our existing licenses.There is no assurance that the patents we have obtained, or any patents we may obtain as a result of our pending U.S. or international patent applications, will provide adequate protection to insure any competitive advantages for our products. We also cannot assure investors that those patents will not be successfully challenged, invalidated or circumvented prior to their expiration. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that competitors, many of which have substantial resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, have not already applied for or obtained, or will not seek to apply for and obtain, patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use and sell our products either in the U.S. or in international markets. In Sports Medicine, many of our competitors have licensed our technology for limited fields of use. Patent applications are maintained in secrecy for a period after filing. We may not be aware of all of the patents and patent applications potentially adverse to our interests.A number of medical device and other companies, universities and research institutions have filed patent applications or have issued patents relating to i) monopolar and/or bipolar electrosurgical methods and apparatus, ii) soft tissue fixation methods and apparatus, and iii) sinus treatment methods and apparatus. We have received, and we may receive in the future, notifications of potential conflicts of existing patents, pending patent applications and challenges to the validity of existing patents. In addition, we have become aware of, and may become aware of in the future, patent applications and issued patents that relate to our products and/or the surgical applications and issued patents and, in some cases, have obtained internal and/or external opinions of counsel regarding the relevance of certain issued patents to our products. We do not believe that our products currently infringe any valid and enforceable claims of any issued patents that we have reviewed. However, if third-party patents or patent applications contain claims infringed by our technology and such claims are ultimately determined to be valid, we may not be able to obtain licenses to those patents at a reasonable cost, if at all, or be able to develop or obtain 13Table of Contentsalternative technology. Our inability to do either would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects. We cannot assure investors that we will not have to defend ourselves in court against allegations of infringement of third-party patents, or that such defense would be successful.In addition to patents, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how, which we seek to protect, in part, through confidentiality and proprietary information agreements. We require our employees and technical consultants to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of an employment or consulting relationship with us. These agreements generally provide that all confidential information, developed or made known to the individual during the course of the individual's relationship with us, is to be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties. These agreements also generally provide that inventions conceived by the individual in the course of rendering services to us shall be our exclusive property. We cannot assure investors that employees and consultants will not breach such agreements, that we would have adequate remedies for any breach or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known to or be independently developed by competitors.We may in the future be subject to intellectual property claims, which are costly to defend, could require us to pay damages and could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future.A number of medical device and other companies, universities and research institutions have filed patent applications or have issued patents relating to i) monopolar and/or bipolar electrosurgical methods and apparatus, ii) soft tissue fixation methods and apparatus and iii) sinus treatment methods and apparatus. We have received, and we may receive in the future, notifications of potential conflicts of existing patents, pending patent applications and challenges to the validity of existing patents. In addition, we have become aware of, and may become aware of in the future, patent applications and issued patents that relate to our products and/or the surgical applications and issued patents and, in some cases, have obtained internal and/or external opinions of counsel regarding the relevance of certain issued patents to our products. We do not believe that our products currently infringe any valid and enforceable claims of the issued patents that we have reviewed. However, if third-party patents or patent applications contain claims infringed by our technology and such claims are ultimately determined to be valid, we may not be able to obtain licenses to those patents at a reasonable cost, if at all, or be able to develop or obtain alternative technology. Our inability to do either would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects. We cannot assure investors that we will not have to defend ourselves in court against allegations of infringement of third-party patents, or that such defense would be successful.We cannot assure you that we will not become subject to patent infringement claims or other litigation, including interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, (USPTO) or similar proceedings in foreign jurisdictions to determine the priority of inventions. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property lawsuits, USPTO reexamination and interference proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings, generally are costly and time-consuming. If other parties violate our proprietary rights, further litigation may be necessary to enforce our patents, to protect trade secrets or know-how we own or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Any litigation or reexamination or interference proceedings will be costly and cause significant diversion of effort by our technical and management personnel.An adverse determination in existing claims, additional litigation or reexamination or interference proceedings to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties or require us to cease using certain technology. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that we could obtain necessary licenses on satisfactory terms, if at all. Adverse determinations in judicial or administrative proceedings or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future growth prospects.We may not be able to successfully introduce to the market new products in a timely manner, which could cause us to lose business to competitors.We compete in a market characterized by rapidly changing technology. We may not be able to keep pace with technology or to develop viable new products. Our future financial performance will depend in part on our ability to develop and manufacture new products in a cost-effective manner, to introduce these products to the market on a timely basis, and to achieve market acceptance of these products. Factors which may result in delays of new product introductions or cancellation of our plans to manufacture and market new products include capital constraints, research and development delays, and delays in acquiring regulatory approvals. Our new products and new product introductions may fail to achieve expected levels of market acceptance. Factors impacting the level of market acceptance include our ability to successfully implement new technologies, the timeliness of our product introductions, our product pricing strategies, our available financial and technological resources for product promotion and development, our ability to show clinical benefit from our products, and the availability of coverage and reimbursement for our products as discussed in the risk factor titled "Changes in coverage and reimbursement for procedures using our products could affect use of our devices and our future revenue" below.14Table of ContentsThe markets for our products are intensely competitive, which may result in our competitors developing technologies and products that are more effective than ours or that make our technologies and products obsolete. Many of our competitors have significantly greater resources and market power than we do.Our primary competitors across all of our operating units consist of Medtronic, Inc., Smith & Nephew, Stryker Corporation, Johnson & Johnson (through their Mitek and Acclarent subsidiaries), Olympus (through their Gyrus subsidiary), and Arthrex, Inc. These competitors tend to be large, well-financed companies with diverse product lines who may have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and technical resources than we do. Some of these companies offer broad product lines that they may offer as a single package and frequently offer significant price discounts as a competitive tactic. Furthermore, some of our competitors utilize purchasing contracts that link discounts on the purchase of one product to purchases of other products in their broad product lines. Many of the hospitals in the U.S. have purchasing contracts with our competitors. Accordingly, customers may be dissuaded from purchasing our products instead of our competitors' products to the extent the purchase would cause them to lose discounts on our competitors' products. In addition, we are aware of several small companies that may directly or indirectly compete with our products.If we were to be unable to continue to compete for any of the above reasons, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects.Failure to obtain FDA clearance or approval for our products could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and future growth prospects.The U.S. is the largest single market in which we sell our products. In the U.S., before we can market a new medical device, or a new use of, or claim for, or significant modification to an existing product, we must first receive either premarket clearance under Section 510(k) of the U.S. Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, or approval of a Premarket Approval (PMA) submission from the FDA, unless an exemption applies. In the 510(k) clearance process, the FDA must determine that a proposed device is "substantially equivalent" to a device legally on the market, known as a "predicate" device, with respect to intended use, technology and safety and effectiveness, in order to clear the proposed device for marketing. Clinical data is sometimes required to support substantial equivalence. However, as was the case in our submission for 510(k) clearance of Coblator IQ ENT Plasma Wands, the FDA has a high degree of latitude when determining the amount of data it requires as part of determination and evaluation of submissions and may determine that a proposed device submitted for 510(k) clearance is not substantially equivalent, or NSE, to a predicate device.An FDA NSE determination means that the device is automatically reclassified into Class III and we cannot market the device unless it is either approved through the PMA process or reclassified into Class I or Class II based on a new 510(k) submission with supporting data. A new submission may require clinical data. In addition, under new changes instituted by the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act of 2012, or FDASIA, FDA may now change the classification of a medical device by administrative order, following a device classification panel meeting and public comment on the proposed reclassification. The PMA approval pathway requires an applicant to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the device based, in part, on data obtained in clinical trials. Both of these processes can be expensive and lengthy and entail significant user fees, unless exempt. The FDA's 510(k) clearance process usually takes from three to twelve months, but it can last longer. The process of obtaining PMA approval is much more costly and uncertain than the 510(k) clearance process. It generally takes from one to three years, or even longer, from the time the PMA application is submitted to the FDA until an approval is obtained. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain FDA clearance or approval for any of our new products on a timely basis, or at all. Failure to obtain FDA clearance or approval for our new products could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and future growth prospects.After a device receives 510(k) premarket notification clearance from the FDA, any modification that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in the intended use of the device, technology, materials, packaging, and certain manufacturing processes may require a new 510(k) clearance or PMA. The FDA requires every manufacturer to make the determination regarding the need for a new 510(k) clearance or PMA approval in the first instance, but the FDA may review any manufacturer's decision and may retroactively require the manufacturer to submit a premarket notification requesting 510(k) clearance or an application for PMA approval. The FDA also can require the manufacturer to cease marketing and/or recall the modified device until 510(k) clearance or approval is obtained. It is expected that the FDA will introduce new changes to existing policy and practices regarding the assessment of whether a new 510(k) is required for changes or modifications to existing devices. For example, in response to industry and healthcare provider concerns regarding the predictability, consistency and rigor of the 510(k) regulatory pathway, the FDA initiated an evaluation of the 510(k) program, and in January 2011, announced several proposed actions intended to reform the review process governing the clearance of medical devices. Most recently, on July 9, 2012, FDASIA was signed into law, which, among other requirements, obligates the FDA to prepare a report for Congress on the FDA's approach for determining when a new 510(k) will be required for modifications or changes to a previously cleared device. After submitting this report, the FDA is expected to issue revised guidance to assist device manufacturers in making this determination. Until then, manufacturers may continue 15Table of Contentsto adhere to the FDA's 1997 guidance on this topic when making a determination as to whether or not a new 510(k) is required for a change or modification to a device, but the practical impact of the FDA's continuing scrutiny of these issues remains unclear. We have modified some of our marketed devices, and have determined that in certain instances new 510(k) clearances or PMA approvals are not required. No assurance can be made that the FDA would agree with any of our decisions not to seek 510(k) clearance or PMA approval. If the FDA requires us to cease marketing and/or recall the modified device until we obtain a new 510(k) clearance or PMA approval, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects could be materially adversely affected.We may be subject to fines, penalties or injunctions if we are determined to be promoting the use of our products for unapproved or "off-label" uses, which would adversely affect our financial condition.Our promotional materials and training methods must comply with FDA regulations and other applicable laws and regulations, including the prohibition of the promotion of a medical device for a use that has not been cleared or approved by the FDA. Use of a device outside its cleared or approved indications is known as "off-label" use. Physicians may use our products off-label, as the FDA does not restrict or regulate a physician's choice of treatment within the practice of medicine. However, if the FDA determines that our promotional materials or training constitutes the promotion of an off-label use, it could subject us to certain sanctions ranging from a request that we modify our training or promotional materials to further regulatory or enforcement actions, including the issuance of an untitled letter, a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and/or criminal penalties against us or our officers or employees. It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they consider our promotional or training materials to constitute promotion of an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. In that event, our reputation could be damaged and adoption of the products would be impaired. Although our policy is to refrain from statements that could be considered off-label promotion of our products, the FDA or another regulatory agency could disagree and conclude that we have engaged in off-label promotion. In addition, the off-label use of our products may increase the risk of injury to patients, and, in turn, the risk of product liability claims. Product liability claims are expensive to defend and could divert our management's attention and result in substantial damage awards against us.Our products may in the future be subject to product recalls that could harm our reputation, business operations and financial results, and if our products cause or contribute to a death or serious injury, we will be subject to medical device reporting regulations, which can result in voluntary corrective actions or FDA enforcement actions.The FDA and similar foreign governmental authorities have the authority to require the recall of commercialized products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture or in the event that a product poses an unacceptable risk to health. Manufacturers may, under their own initiative, recall a product if any material deficiency in a device is found. A government mandated or voluntary recall by us or one of our distributors could occur as a result of an unacceptable risk to health, component failures, manufacturing errors, design or labeling defects or other deficiencies and issues. Recalls of any of our products would divert managerial and financial resources and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Any of these sanctions could impair our ability to produce our products in a cost-effective and timely manner in order to meet customer' demand. We may also be required to bear other costs or take other actions that may have a negative impact on our future sales and our ability to generate profits.Further, under the FDA medical device reporting regulations we are required to report to the FDA any incident in which our product may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or in which our product malfunctioned and, if the malfunction were to recur, would likely cause or contribute to death or serious injury. Any adverse event involving our products could result in future voluntary corrective actions, such as recalls or customer notifications, or agency action, such as inspection, mandatory recall or other enforcement action. Any corrective action, whether voluntary or involuntary, as well as defending ourselves in a lawsuit, will require the dedication of our time and capital, distract management from operating our business, and may harm our reputation and financial results.Changes in coverage and reimbursement for procedures using our products could affect use of our devices and our future revenue.The demand and pricing for our products is highly dependent on the policies of third-party payors such as Medicare, Medicaid, private insurance, and managed care organizations that reimburse our customers when they use our products. Failure by physicians, hospitals and other users of our products to obtain sufficient coverage and reimbursement from healthcare payors for procedures in which our products are used, or adverse changes in environmental and private third-party payors' policies toward coverage and reimbursement for such procedures would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects.16Table of ContentsIn the U.S., third-party payors continue to implement initiatives that restrict the use of certain technologies to those that meet certain clinical evidentiary requirements. We are aware of several third-party payors in the U.S., including governmental payors such as Medicare and Medicaid and private health insurance companies, who consider Coblation technology used in certain procedures to treat certain clinical conditions to be experimental or investigational. These payors have developed policies that deny coverage and therefore make no reimbursement for such procedures using our devices. Procedures using our devices that are not covered by some payors include such procedures as plasma disc decompression, or Coblation nucleoplasty, as well as Coblation or radiofrequency volumetric tissue reduction for (1) removing soft tissue during arthroscopic surgery, (2) hypertrophied nasal turbinates for the treatment of chronic nasal obstruction or obstructive sleep apnea and (3) soft palate and tongue for the treatment of obstructive sleep apnea. However, some payors in the U.S. provide coverage and reimbursement for Coblation tonsillectomy for certain clinical indications. In addition, some payors are moving toward a managed care system and control their health care costs by limiting authorizations for surgical procedures, including elective procedures using our devices. Failure to obtain favorable payor policies could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations.In addition to uncertainties surrounding coverage policies, third-party payors from time to time update reimbursement amounts and also revise the methodologies used to determine reimbursement amounts. This includes annual updates to payments to ambulatory surgical centers and physicians for procedures using our products. Because the cost of our products generally is recovered by the healthcare provider as part of the payment for performing a procedure and not separately reimbursed, these updates could directly impact the demand for our products. An example of payment updates is the Medicare program updates to physician payments, which is done on an annual basis using a prescribed statutory formula. In the past, when the application of the formula resulted in lower payment, Congress has passed interim legislation to prevent the reductions. Most recently, the American Taxpayer Relief Act (ATRA), signed into law in January 2013, froze the 2012 payment rates under the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule through 2013. If Congress fails to intervene to prevent the negative update factor in future years, the resulting decrease in payment may adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. In addition, ATRA, among other things, delayed for another two months the budget cuts mandated by these sequestration provisions of the Budget Control Act of 2011. The ATRA also reduced Medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers, and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years.Market acceptance of our products in international markets would be dependent, in part, upon the availability of coverage and reimbursement within prevailing health care payment systems which vary significantly by country and may include both government sponsored health care and private insurance. We cannot assure investors that any reimbursement approvals will be obtained in a timely manner, if at all, or assess the impact on our business of any future changes, if any, that are made to coverage and reimbursement policies by government action in key international markets.Product liability claims could adversely impact our financial condition and impair our reputation.Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks which are inherent in the design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices. In addition, many of our products are designed to be implanted in the human body for long periods of time. Component failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects or inadequate disclosure of product related risks or product related information with respect to these or other products we manufacture or sell could result in an unsafe condition or injury to a patient. The occurrence of such a problem could result in product liability claims or a recall of one or more of our products, which could ultimately result in the removal from the body of such products and claims regarding associated costs and damages, which could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, our ability to attract and retain customers for our products, and future growth prospects.We cannot assure you that our current product liability insurance coverage limits are adequate to protect us from any liabilities we might incur in connection with the development, manufacture and sale of our products. In addition, we may require increased product liability coverage as products are successfully commercialized in additional applications. Product liability insurance is expensive and in the future may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, our ability to attract and retain customers for our products, and future growth prospects.We are dependent on key suppliers, and supply disruptions could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects.Some of the raw materials and components within our products are purchased from single vendors. If the supply of materials from a single source supplier were interrupted, replacement or alternative sources might not be readily obtainable. An inability to continue to source materials or components from any of these suppliers, which could be due to regulatory actions or requirements affecting the supplier, adverse financial or other strategic developments experienced by a supplier, labor disputes 17Table of Contentsor shortages, unexpected demands or quality issues, could adversely affect our ability to satisfy demand for our products. A new or supplemental filing with applicable regulatory authorities may require us to obtain clearance prior to our marketing a product containing new material. This clearance process may take a substantial period of time and we cannot assure investors that we would be able to obtain the necessary regulatory approval for a new material to be used in our products on a timely basis, if at all. This could create supply disruptions that would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects.The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act imposes new disclosure requirements regarding the use of "conflict" minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries in products, whether or not these products are manufactured by third parties. These new requirements are intended to affect the sourcing and availability of minerals used in the manufacture of any products that use the defined minerals, including medical devices. In addition to adding administrative costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, it is reasonably possible that the cost of our materials could increase as a result of the legislation for any conflict minerals used in our products regardless if where the minerals are sourced. Our supply chain is complex and we may be unable to verify the origins for all metals used by suppliers or their sub-suppliers for components included in our products. We may also encounter activism from our customers and stockholders if we are unable to certify that our products are conflict free. In addition, we primarily use a subcontractor located in Costa Rica to sterilize our disposable devices. We have the ability to use alternative sterilization service providers for most of our products. If our Costa Rica sterilization service were to be disrupted for any reason, we would be required to use alternative sources with potentially longer processing and logistics cycles, which could lead to a disruption in our ability to supply products for a period of time.We are dependent on warehouses in the U.S. and Belgium owned and operated by Deutsche Post DHL, Inc. Our ability to supply products to our customers in a timely manner and at acceptable commercial terms could be disrupted by factors such as fire, earthquake or any other natural disaster, work stoppages, disputes or difficulties between Deutsche Post DHL, Inc. and its employees, malfunctions in Deutsche Post DHL, Inc.'s information systems or disruptions in Deutsche Post DHL, Inc.'s shipping channels.Many of our business processes depend upon our information technology systems and the proper interaction with or interfacing with systems of third parties or with systems supplied by third parties. If those systems fail or are interrupted, or if our ability to connect to or interact with one or more networks is interrupted, our processes may not function properly or at all. In addition, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, unauthorized tampering and other disruptions. These occurrences could harm our ability to ship products, and our financial results would likely be adversely affected.Our business is susceptible to risks associated with international operations.International operations are generally subject to a number of risks, including: protectionist laws, business practices, licenses, tariffs and other trade barriers that favor local competition; multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations, such as tax laws regulating intercompany transactions; difficulties in managing foreign operations, including staffing, seasonality of operations, dependence on local vendors, and collecting accounts receivable; loss of proprietary information due to piracy, misappropriation or weaker laws regarding intellectual property protection; foreign currency uncertainties; and political and economic instability.To be able to market and sell our products in other countries, we must obtain regulatory approvals and comply with the regulations of those countries. These regulations, including the requirements for approvals and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country and we cannot be certain that we will receive regulatory approvals in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products. If we fail to obtain or maintain regulatory approval in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, our ability to generate revenue could be harmed.We derived 32.8 percent, 31.6 percent and 31.0 percent of our total product sales for the year ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, from customers located outside of the Americas and we expect international revenue to remain a significant percentage of total revenue. Historically, a majority of our international revenues and costs have been denominated in foreign currencies and we expect future international revenues and costs will be mostly denominated in foreign currencies.Disruptions or other adverse developments at our Costa Rica facility could materially adversely affect our business.Our products are manufactured at our facility in an industrial park in San Jose, Costa Rica. We do not maintain redundant manufacturing facilities of sufficient scale to meet our current business needs in the event of a major disruption to our Costa Rica facility. If our Costa Rica facility is not able to produce sufficient quantities of our products with adequate quality, or if our Costa Rica operations are disrupted for any reason, then we may be forced to locate alternative manufacturing facilities, including facilities operated by third parties. Disruptions may include, but are not limited to: changes in the legal and regulatory environment in Costa Rica; slowdowns or work stoppages within the Costa Rican customs authorities; acts of God (including 18Table of Contentsbut not limited to potential disruptive effects from an active volcano near the facility or earthquakes, hurricanes and other natural disasters); and other issues associated with significant operations that are remote from our headquarters and operations centers. Additionally, continued growth in product sales could outpace the ability of our Costa Rican operation to supply ordered products on a timely basis or cause us to take actions within our supply and manufacturing operations which increase costs, complexity and timing. Locating alternative facilities would be time-consuming, would disrupt our production and cause shipment delays and could result in damage to our reputation and profitability. Additionally, we cannot assure you that alternative manufacturing facilities would offer the same cost structure as our Costa Rica facility.One Equity Partners, a private equity firm, may have influence on our major corporate decisions.As previously reported, on September 1, 2009, an affiliate of One Equity Partners, or OEP, a private equity firm, acquired our Series A Preferred Stock. See "Part II—Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources" in our 2009 Form 10-K for a description of this transaction. As a result of this transaction, OEP became the largest beneficial owner of our stock. In connection with this transaction, we expanded the Board of Directors to eight members and granted OEP the right to nominate two directors. Effective September 1, 2009, Messrs. Gregory Belinfanti and Christian Ahrens, both partners of OEP, were appointed to our Board of Directors. On February 11, 2014, the Series A Preferred Stock was converted to Common Stock and OEP's ownership interest is approximately 15.2 percent of our voting stock. Consequently, OEP may have the ability to influence our Board of Directors and matters requiring stockholder approval, subject to the restrictions placed on OEP by the Securities Purchase Agreement, including without limitation OEP's agreement to vote for any director nominated by the Board. OEP is free to dispose of its holding, which could result in a decrease of the market price of our Common Stock, particularly if such dispositions are made in the open market and are substantial.Circumstances associated with our integration of acquisitions may adversely affect our operating results.An element of our growth strategy in the future may be the pursuit of acquisitions of other businesses that expand or complement our existing products and distribution channels. Integrating businesses, however, involves a number of special risks, including: the possibility that management attention may be diverted from regular business concerns by the need to integrate operations; unforeseen costs, difficulties and liabilities in integrating our and the acquired company's employees, operations and systems; accounting, regulatory, or compliance issues that could arise in connection with, or as a result of, the acquisition of the acquired company; challenges in retaining our customers or the customers of the acquired company following the acquisition; the difficulty of incorporating acquired technology and rights into our products and services; and impairment charges if our acquisitions are not successful due to these risks.In addition, we may finance future acquisitions by issuing equity securities, which may dilute the holdings of our current stockholders. If we are unable to successfully complete and integrate strategic acquisitions in a timely manner, our business, financial condition or operating results may be adversely affected.Unidentified or other control deficiencies relating to our internal control over financial reporting could result in errors in our reported results and could have a material adverse effect on our operations, investor confidence in our business and the trading prices of our securities.Internal control over financial reporting cannot provide absolute assurance of achieving financial reporting objectives because of its inherent limitations. Internal control over financial reporting is a process that involves human diligence and compliance and is subject to lapses in judgment and breakdowns resulting from human failures. Internal control over financial reporting can also be circumvented by collusion or improper management override. Because of such limitations, there is a risk that material misstatements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis by internal control over financial reporting.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.19Table of Contents