ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to other information in this report, the following factors should be considered carefully in evaluating an investment in our securities. If any of the risks or uncertainties described in this Form 10-K actually occurs, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The risks and uncertainties described in this Form 10-K are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are unaware or that we currently deem immaterial may also become important factors that may harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we do not successfully commercialize Gralise, Zipsor, Lazanda and CAMBIA, our business will suffer. In October 2011, we began commercial sales of Gralise. In June 2012, we acquired Zipsor, and we began commercial promotion of Zipsor in late July 2012. In July 2013, we acquired and began commercial promotion of Lazanda. In December 2013, we acquired and began commercial promotion of CAMBIA. As a company, we have limited experience selling and marketing pharmaceutical products. In addition to the risks discussed elsewhere in this section, our ability to successfully 18 Table of Contents commercialize and generate revenues from Gralise, Zipsor, Lazanda and CAMBIA depend on a number of factors, including, but not limited to our ability to: •develop and execute our sales and marketing strategies for our products; •achieve market acceptance of our products; •obtain and maintain adequate coverage, reimbursement and pricing from managed care, government and other third-party payers; •to maintain, manage or scale the necessary sales, marketing, manufacturing, managed markets and other capabilities and infrastructure that are required to successfully commercialize our products; •to maintain intellectual property protection for our products; and •to comply with applicable regulatory requirements. If we are unable to successfully achieve or perform these functions, we will not be able to maintain or increase our revenues from Gralise, Zipsor, Lazanda and CAMBIA and our business will suffer. If generic manufacturers use litigation and regulatory means to obtain approval for generic versions of our products, our business will suffer. Under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetics Act (FDCA), the FDA can approve an Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) for a generic version of a branded drug without the ANDA applicant undertaking the clinical testing necessary to obtain approval to market a new drug. In place of such clinical studies, an ANDA applicant usually needs only to submit data demonstrating that its product has the same active ingredient(s) and is bioequivalent to the branded product, in addition to any data necessary to establish that any difference in strength, dosage form, inactive ingredients, or delivery mechanism does not result in different safety or efficacy profiles, as compared to the reference drug. The FDCA requires an applicant for a drug that relies, at least in part, on the patent of one of our branded drugs to notify us of their application and potential infringement of our patent rights. Upon receipt of this notice we have 45 days to bring a patent infringement suit in federal district court against the company seeking approval of a product covered by one of our patents. The discovery, trial and appeals process in such suits can take several years. If such a suit is commenced, the FDCA provides a 30-month stay on the FDA's approval of the competitor's application. Such litigation is often time-consuming and quite costly and may result in generic competition if the patents at issue are not upheld or if the generic competitor is found not to infringe such patents. If the litigation is resolved in favor of the applicant or the challenged patent expires during the 30-month stay period, the stay is lifted and the FDA may thereafter approve the application based on the standards for approval of ANDAs. We are currently involved in patent infringement litigation against filers of three ANDAs to Gralise in connection with lawsuits consolidated in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey, as described in greater detail under "LEGAL PROCEEDINGS" below. The lawsuits were filed in March 2012 and May 2012 against ANDA filers Actavis Elizabeth LLC (Actavis), Incepta Pharmaceuticals (Incepta), and Zydus Pharmaceuticals USA and Cadila Healthcare Limited (collectively, Zydus) for infringement of nine U.S. patents listed in the Patent and Exclusivity Information Addendum of FDA's publication, Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations (commonly known as the "Orange Book") for Gralise. We commenced the lawsuits within the 45 days required to automatically stay, or bar, the FDA from approving the ANDAs for 30 months or until a district court decision that is adverse to the asserted patents, whichever may occur earlier. The 30-month stays expire between July 2014 and October 2014. If the litigation is still ongoing after expiration of the applicable 30-month stay, the termination of the stay could result in the introduction 19 Table of Contents of one or more products generic to Gralise prior to resolution of the litigation. Any introduction of one or more products generic to Gralise would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. On June 28, 2013, we received from Banner Pharmacaps Inc. (Banner) a Notice of Certification for U.S. Patent Nos. 6,365,180; 7,662,858; 7,884,095; 7,939,518 and 8,110,606 under 21 U.S.C. § 355 (j)(2)(A)(vii)(IV) (Zipsor Paragraph IV Letter) certifying that Banner has submitted and the FDA has accepted for filing an ANDA for diclofenac potassium capsules, 25 mg (Banner ANDA Product). The letter states that the Banner ANDA Product contains the required bioavailability or bioequivalence data to Zipsor and certifies that Banner intends to obtain FDA approval to engage in commercial manufacture, use or sale of Banner's ANDA product before the expiration of the above identified patents, which are listed for Zipsor in the Orange Book. We commenced the lawsuit within the 45 days required to automatically bar the FDA from approving the Banner ANDA Product for 30 months or until a district court decision that is adverse to the asserted patents, whichever may occur earlier. Absent a court order, the 30-month stay is expected to expire in December 2015. Any introduction of one or more products generic to Gralise, Zipsor, Lazanda or CAMBIA would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The filing of the ANDAs described above, or any other ANDA or similar application in respect to any of our products could have an adverse impact on our stock price. Moreover, if the patents covering our products were not upheld in litigation or if a generic competitor is found not to infringe these patents, the resulting generic competition would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be unable to compete successfully in the pharmaceutical industry. Gabapentin is currently sold by Pfizer as Neurontin® for adjunctive therapy for epileptic seizures and for PHN. Pfizer's basic U.S. patents relating to Neurontin have expired, and numerous companies have received approval to market generic versions of the immediate release product. Pfizer has also developed Lyrica® (pregabalin), which has been approved for marketing in the United States for post herpetic pain, fibromyalgia, diabetic nerve pain, adjunctive therapy, epileptic seizures and nerve pain associated with spinal cord injury. In June 2012, GlaxoSmithKline and Xenoport, Inc. received approval to market Horizant™ (gabapentin enacarbil extended-release tablets) for the management of PHN. There are other products prescribed for or under development for PHN which are now or may become competitive with Gralise. Diclofenac, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Zipsor, is a NSAID that is approved in the United States for the treatment of mild to moderate pain in adults, including the symptoms of arthritis. Both branded and generic versions of diclofenac are marketed in the U.S. Zipsor competes against other drugs that are widely used to treat mild to moderate pain in the acute setting. In addition, a number of other companies are developing NSAIDs in a variety of dosage forms for the treatment of mild to moderate pain and related indications. Other drugs are in clinical development to treat acute pain. An alternate formulation of diclofenac is the active ingredient in CAMBIA that is approved in the United States for the acute treatment of migraine in adults. CAMBIA competes with a number of triptans which are used to treat migraine and certain other headaches. Currently, seven triptans are available and sold in the United States (almotriptan, eletriptan, frovatriptan, naratriptan, rizatriptan, sumatriptan and zolmitriptan), as well as a fixed-dose combination product containing sumatriptan plus naproxen. There are other products prescribed for or under development for the treatment of migraines which are now or may become competitive with CAMBIA. Fentanyl, an opioid analgesic, is currently sold by a number of companies for the treatment of breakthrough pain in opioid-tolerant cancer patients. Branded fentanyl products against which Lazanda 20 Table of Contents currently competes include Subsys®, which is sold by Insys, Fentora® and Actiq®, which are sold by Cephalon, Abstral®, which is sold by Galena and Onsolis®, which is sold by BDSI. Generic fentanyl products against which Lazanda currently competes are sold by Mallinckrodt, Par and Actavis. Competition in the pharmaceutical industry is intense. We expect competition to increase. Competing products developed in the future may prove superior to our products. Most of our principal competitors have substantially greater financial, sales, marketing, personnel and research and development resources than we do. If we are unable to negotiate acceptable pricing or obtain adequate reimbursement for our products from third-party payers, our business will suffer. Sales of our products will depend in part on the availability of acceptable pricing and adequate reimbursement from third-party payers such as: •government health administration authorities; •private health insurers; •health maintenance organizations; •managed care organizations; •pharmacy benefit management companies; and •other healthcare-related organizations. If reimbursement is not available for our products or product candidates, demand for these products may be limited. Further, any delay in receiving approval for reimbursement from third-party payers could have an adverse effect on our future revenues. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products, including pharmaceuticals. Our products may not be considered cost effective, and adequate third-party reimbursement may be unavailable to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an acceptable return on our investment. Federal and state governments in the United States continue to propose and pass new legislation, such as the ACA, that is designed to contain or reduce the cost of healthcare. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price that we receive for our products and any product that we may develop or acquire. If we do not obtain Orphan Drug exclusivity for Gralise in PHN, our business could suffer. In November 2010, the FDA granted Gralise Orphan Drug designation for the management of PHN based on a plausible hypothesis that Gralise is "clinically superior" to immediate release gabapentin due to the incidence of adverse events observed in Gralise clinical trials relative to the incidence of adverse events reported in the package insert for immediate release gabapentin. Generally, an Orphan-designated drug approved for marketing is eligible for seven years of regulatory exclusivity for the Orphan-designated indication. If granted, Orphan Drug exclusivity for Gralise will run for seven years from January 28, 2011. However, the FDA has not granted Orphan Drug exclusivity based on the FDA's interpretation of the statute and regulations governing Orphan Drug exclusivity. In September 2012, we filed an action in federal district court for the District of Columbia against the FDA seeking an order requiring the FDA to grant Gralise Orphan Drug exclusivity for the management of PHN. We believe Gralise is entitled to Orphan Drug exclusivity as a matter of law, and the FDA's action is not consistent with the statute or the FDA's regulations related to Orphan Drugs. The lawsuit seeks a 21 Table of Contents determination by the court that Gralise is protected by Orphan Drug exclusivity, and an order that the FDA act accordingly. If we do not secure Orphan Drug exclusivity in PHN for Gralise, the period of market exclusivity in the United States for Gralise may be reduced, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Health care reform could increase our expenses and adversely affect the commercial success of our products. The ACA includes numerous provisions that affect pharmaceutical companies, some of which became effective immediately upon President Obama signing the law, and others of which will take effect over the next several years. For example, the ACA seeks to expand healthcare coverage to the uninsured through private health insurance reforms and an expansion of Medicaid. The ACA also imposes substantial costs on pharmaceutical manufacturers, such as an increase in liability for rebates paid to Medicaid, new drug discounts that must be offered to certain enrollees in the Medicare prescription drug benefit and an annual fee imposed on all manufacturers of brand prescription drugs in the U.S. The ACA also requires increased disclosure obligations and an expansion of an existing program requiring pharmaceutical discounts to certain types of hospitals and federally subsidized clinics and contains cost-containment measures that could reduce reimbursement levels for pharmaceutical products. The ACA also includes provisions known as the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, which require manufacturers of drugs, biologics, devices and medical supplies covered under Medicare and Medicaid starting in 2013 to record any transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals and to report this data beginning in 2014 to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services for subsequent public disclosure. Similar reporting requirements have also been enacted on the state level domestically, and an increasing number of countries worldwide either have adopted or are considering similar laws requiring transparency of interactions with health care professionals. Failure to report appropriate data may result in civil or criminal fines and/or penalties. These and other aspects of the ACA, including the regulations that may be imposed in connection with the implementation of the ACA, could increase our expenses and adversely affect our ability to successfully commercialize our products and product candidates. Acquisition of new and complementary businesses, products and technologies is a key element of our corporate strategy. If we are unable to successfully identify and acquire such businesses, products or technologies, our business and prospects will be limited. Since June 2012, we have acquired Zipsor, Lazanda and CAMBIA. An important element of our business strategy is to actively seek to acquire products or companies and to in-license or seek co-promotion rights to products that could be sold by our sales force. We cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully pursue and complete any further acquisitions, or whether we would be able to successfully integrate any acquired business, product or technology or retain any key employees. Integrating any business, product or technology we may acquire could be expensive and time consuming, disrupt our ongoing business and distract our management. If we are unable to enhance and broaden our product offerings, unable to effectively integrate any acquired businesses, products or technologies, or achieve the anticipated benefits of any acquired business, product or technology, our business and prospects will be limited. In addition, any amortization or charges resulting from the costs of such acquisitions will adversely affect our operating results. If we engage in strategic transactions that fail to achieve the anticipated results and synergies, our business will suffer. We may seek to engage in strategic transactions with third parties, such as company acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, divestitures or business combinations. We may face significant competition in seeking potential strategic partners and transactions, and the negotiation process for 22 Table of Contents acquiring any product or engaging in strategic transactions can be time-consuming and complex. Engaging in strategic transactions may require us to incur non-recurring and other charges, increase our near and long-term expenditures, pose integration challenges and fail to achieve the anticipated results or synergies or distract our management and business, which may harm our business. Pharmaceutical marketing is subject to substantial regulation in the United States and any failure by us or our collaborative partners to comply with applicable statutes or regulations could adversely affect our business. All marketing activities associated with Gralise, Zipsor, Lazanda and CAMBIA, as well as marketing activities related to any other products which we acquire or for which we obtain regulatory approval, will be subject to numerous federal and state laws governing the marketing and promotion of pharmaceutical products. The FDA regulates post-approval promotional labeling and advertising to ensure that they conform to statutory and regulatory requirements. In addition to FDA restrictions, the marketing of prescription drugs is subject to laws and regulations prohibiting fraud and abuse under government healthcare programs. For example, the federal healthcare program anti-kickback statute prohibits giving things of value to induce the prescribing or purchase of products that are reimbursed by federal healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. In addition, federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government. Under this law, the federal government in recent years has brought claims against drug manufacturers alleging that certain marketing activities caused false claims for prescription drugs to be submitted to federal programs. Many states have similar statutes or regulations that, apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in some states, regardless of the payer. If we, or our collaborative partners, fail to comply with applicable FDA regulations or other laws or regulations relating to the marketing of our products, we could be subject to criminal prosecution, civil penalties, seizure of products, injunctions, and exclusion of our products from reimbursement under government programs, as well as other regulatory actions against our product candidates, our collaborative partners or us. We may incur significant liability if it is determined that we are promoting or have in the past promoted the "off-label" use of drugs. Companies may not promote drugs for "off-label" uses—that is, uses that are not described in the product's labeling and that differ from those approved by the FDA. Physicians may prescribe drug products for off-label uses, and such off-label uses are common across some medical specialties. Although the FDA and other regulatory agencies do not regulate a physician's choice of treatments, the FDCA and FDA regulations restrict communications on the subject of off-label uses of drug products by pharmaceutical companies. The Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services (OIG), the FDA and the Department of Justice (DOJ) all actively enforce laws and regulations prohibiting promotion of off-label uses and the promotion of products for which marketing clearance has not been obtained. If the OIG or the FDA takes the position that we are or may be out of compliance with the requirements and restrictions described above, and we are investigated for or found to have improperly promoted off-label uses, we may be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies as well as criminal sanctions. In addition, management's attention could be diverted from our business operations and our reputation could be damaged. 23 Table of Contents We depend on third parties that are single source suppliers to manufacture Gralise, Zipsor, Lazanda and CAMBIA. If these suppliers are unable to manufacture and supply Gralise, Zipsor, Lazanda or CAMBIA or our product candidates, our business will suffer. Patheon is our sole supplier for Gralise pursuant to a manufacturing and supply agreement we entered into with Patheon in September 2011. Accucaps is our sole supplier for Zipsor pursuant to a manufacturing agreement we assumed in connection with our acquisition of Zipsor from Xanodyne in June 2012. DPT is our sole supplier for Lazanda pursuant to a manufacturing and supply agreement that we assumed in connection with our July 2013 acquisition of Lazanda. MiPharm is our sole supplier for CAMBIA pursuant to a manufacturing and supply agreement that we assumed in connection with our December 2013 acquisition of CAMBIA. We do not have, and we do not intend to establish in the foreseeable future, internal commercial scale manufacturing capabilities. Rather, we intend to use the facilities of third parties to manufacture products for clinical trials and commercialization. Our dependence on third parties for the manufacture of our products and our product candidates may adversely affect our ability to deliver such products on a timely or competitive basis, if at all. Any failure to obtain Gralise, Zipsor, Lazanda or CAMBIA, or active pharmaceutical ingredients, excipients or components from our suppliers could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The manufacturing process for pharmaceutical products is highly regulated and regulators may shut down manufacturing facilities that they believe do not comply with regulations. We, our third-party manufacturers and our suppliers are subject to numerous regulations, including current FDA regulations governing manufacturing processes, stability testing, record keeping and quality standards. Similar regulations are in effect in other countries. Our third-party manufacturers and suppliers are independent entities who are subject to their own unique operational and financial risks which are out of our control. If we or any of these third-party manufacturers or suppliers fail to perform as required or fail to comply with the regulations of the FDA and other applicable governmental authorities, our ability to deliver our products on a timely basis or receive royalties or continue our clinical trials would be adversely affected. The manufacturing processes of our third party manufacturers and suppliers may also be found to violate the proprietary rights of others. To the extent these risks materialize and adversely affect their performance obligations to us, and we are unable to contract for a sufficient supply of required products on acceptable terms, or if we encounter delays and difficulties in our relationships with manufacturers or suppliers, our business, results of operation and financial condition would be adversely affected. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property and may be liable for infringing the intellectual property of others. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our products and technologies, and to preserve our trade secrets. Our policy is to seek to protect our proprietary rights, by, among other methods, filing patent applications in the United States and foreign jurisdictions to cover certain aspects of our technology. We hold issued United States patents and have patent applications pending in the United States. In addition, we are preparing patent applications relating to our expanding technology for filing in the United States and abroad. We have also applied for patents in numerous foreign countries. Some of those countries have granted our applications and other applications are still pending. Our pending patent applications may lack priority over other applications or may not result in the issuance of patents. Even if issued, our patents may not be sufficiently broad to provide protection against competitors with similar technologies and may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing related products or may not provide us with competitive advantages against competing products. We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how, which are difficult to protect. We seek to protect such information, in part, through entering into confidentiality agreements with 24 Table of Contents employees, consultants, collaborative partners and others before such persons or entities have access to our proprietary trade secrets and know-how. These confidentiality agreements may not be effective in certain cases, due to, among other things, the lack of an adequate remedy for breach of an agreement or a finding that an agreement is unenforceable. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. Our ability to develop our technologies and to make commercial sales of products using our technologies also depends on not infringing other patents or intellectual property rights. We are not aware of any intellectual property claims against us. However, the pharmaceutical industry has experienced extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. Patents issued to third parties relating to sustained release drug formulations or particular pharmaceutical compounds could in the future be asserted against us, although we believe that we do not infringe any valid claim of any patents. If claims concerning any of our products were to arise and it was determined that these products infringe a third party's proprietary rights, we could be subject to substantial damages for past infringement or be forced to stop or delay our activities with respect to any infringing product, unless we can obtain a license, or we may have to redesign our product so that it does not infringe upon such third party's patent rights, which may not be possible or could require substantial funds or time. Such a license may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we, our collaborators or our licensors were able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which could give our competitors access to the same intellectual property. In addition, any public announcements related to litigation or interference proceedings initiated or threatened against us, even if such claims are without merit, could cause our stock price to decline. From time to time, we may become aware of activities by third parties that may infringe our patents. Infringement by others of our patents may reduce our market shares (if a related product is approved) and, consequently, our potential future revenues and adversely affect our patent rights if we do not take appropriate enforcement action. We may need to engage in litigation in the future to enforce any patents issued or licensed to us or to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights. For instance, in January 2013 and April 2013, we filed lawsuits against Purdue and Endo, respectively, for infringement of certain of our Acuform drug delivery technology patents. We are also engaged in litigation against Gralise ANDA filers. In these or other litigation matters, our issued or licensed patents may not be held valid by a court of competent jurisdiction. Whether or not the outcome of litigation is favorable to us, defending a lawsuit takes significant time, may be expensive, and may divert management attention from other business concerns. We may also be required to participate in interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office for the purpose of determining the priority of inventions in connection with our patent applications or other parties' patent applications. Adverse determinations in litigation or interference proceedings could require us to seek licenses which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or subject us to significant liabilities to third parties. If we need but cannot obtain a license, we may be prevented from marketing the affected product. Our collaborative arrangements may give rise to disputes over commercial terms, contract interpretation and ownership or protection of our intellectual property and may adversely affect the commercial success of our products. We currently have collaboration or license arrangements with a number of companies, including Mallinckrodt, Janssen and Ironwood. In addition, we have in the past and may in the future enter into other collaborative arrangements, some of which have been based on less definitive agreements, such as memoranda of understanding, material transfer agreements, options or feasibility agreements. We may not execute definitive agreements formalizing these arrangements. Collaborative relationships are generally complex and may give rise to disputes regarding the relative rights, obligations and revenues of the parties, including the ownership of intellectual property 25 Table of Contents and associated rights and obligations, especially when the applicable collaborative provisions have not been fully negotiated and documented. Such disputes can delay collaborative research, development or commercialization of potential products, and can lead to lengthy, expensive litigation or arbitration. The terms of collaborative arrangements may also limit or preclude us from developing products or technologies developed pursuant to such collaborations. Additionally, the collaborators under these arrangements might breach the terms of their respective agreements or fail to maintain, protect or prevent infringement of the licensed patents or our other intellectual property rights by third parties. Moreover, negotiating collaborative arrangements often takes considerably longer to conclude than the parties initially anticipate, which could cause us to enter into less favorable agreement terms that delay or defer recovery of our development costs and reduce the funding available to support key programs. We may be unable to enter into future collaborative arrangements on acceptable terms, which could harm our ability to develop and commercialize our current and potential future products and technologies. Other factors relating to collaborations that may adversely affect the commercial success of our products include: •any parallel development by a collaborative partner of competitive technologies or products; •arrangements with collaborative partners that limit or preclude us from developing products or technologies; •premature termination of a collaboration agreement; or •failure by a collaborative partner to devote sufficient resources to the development and commercial sales of products using our current and potential future products and technologies. Our collaborative arrangements do not necessarily restrict our collaborative partners from competing with us or restrict their ability to market or sell competitive products. Our current and any future collaborative partners may pursue existing or other development-stage products or alternative technologies in preference to those being developed in collaboration with us. Our collaborative partners may also terminate their collaborative relationships with us or otherwise decide not to proceed with development and commercialization of our products. If we are unable to obtain or maintain regulatory approval, we will be limited in our ability to commercialize our products, and our business will suffer. The regulatory process is expensive and time consuming. Even after investing significant time and expenditures on clinical trials, we may not obtain regulatory approval of our product candidates. Data obtained from clinical trials are susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval, and the FDA may not agree with our methods of clinical data analysis or our conclusions regarding safety and/or efficacy. Significant clinical trial delays could impair our ability to commercialize our products and could allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do. In addition, changes in regulatory policy for product approval during the period of product development and regulatory agency review of each submitted new application may cause delays or rejections. Even if we receive regulatory approval, this approval may entail limitations on the indicated uses for which we can market a product. For example, the active ingredients in the products utilizing our Acuform delivery technology that are being developed pursuant to our collaboration with Mallinckrodt include acetaminophen in combination with opiates. In connection with concerns that consumers may inadvertently take more than the recommended daily dose of acetaminophen, potentially causing liver damage, an FDA advisory committee has recommended that prescription products containing acetaminophen in combination with prescription analgesics (including opiates) should include black box warnings and/or be removed from the market. The FDA is evaluating the recommendations and has indicated that such an evaluation will take some time. The FDA is not required to accept advisory committee recommendations. 26 Table of Contents Mallinckrodt's ability or willingness to develop and market the products subject to our collaboration may be adversely affected by actions of the FDA in response to the advisory committee recommendations. Further, with respect to our approved products, once regulatory approval is obtained, a marketed product and its manufacturer are subject to continual review. The discovery of previously unknown problems with a product or manufacturer may result in restrictions on the product, manufacturer or manufacturing facility, including withdrawal of the product from the market. Manufacturers of approved products are also subject to ongoing regulation and inspection, including compliance with FDA regulations governing current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) or Quality System Regulation (QSR). The FDCA, the CSA and other federal and foreign statutes and regulations govern and influence the testing, manufacturing, packing, labeling, storing, record keeping, safety, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of our products. In addition, with respect to Lazanda, we and our partners are also subject to ongoing United States Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) regulatory obligations, including annual registration renewal, security, recordkeeping, theft and loss reporting, periodic inspection and annual quota allotments for the raw material for commercial production of our products. The failure to comply with these regulations could result in, among other things, warning letters, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, non-renewal of marketing applications or authorizations or criminal prosecution, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are also required to report adverse events associated with our products to the FDA and other regulatory authorities. Unexpected or serious health or safety concerns could result in labeling changes, recalls, market withdrawals or other regulatory actions. Recalls may be issued at our discretion or at the discretion of the FDA or other empowered regulatory agencies. For example, in June 2010, we instituted a voluntary class 2 recall of 52 lots of our 500mg Glumetza product after chemical traces of 2,4,6-tribromoanisole (TBA) were found in the product bottle. We are subject to risks associated with NDAs submitted under Section 505(b)(2) of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. The products we develop generally are or will be submitted for approval under Section 505(b)(2) of the FDCA, which was enacted as part of the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, otherwise known as the Hatch-Waxman Act. Section 505(b)(2) permits the submission of a NDA where at least some of the information required for approval comes from studies not conducted by or for the applicant and for which the applicant has not obtained a right of reference. For instance, the NDA for Gralise relies on the FDA's prior approval of Neurontin (gabapentin), the immediate release formulation of gabapentin initially approved by the FDA. For NDAs submitted under Section 505(b)(2) of the FDCA, the patent certification and related provisions of the Hatch-Waxman Act apply. In accordance with the Hatch-Waxman Act, such NDAs may be required to include certifications, known as "Paragraph IV certifications," that certify any patents listed in the FDA's Orange Book publication in respect to any product referenced in the 505(b)(2) application are invalid, unenforceable, and/or will not be infringed by the manufacture, use, or sale of the product that is the subject of the 505(b)(2) application. Under the Hatch-Waxman Act, the holder of the NDA which the 505(b)(2) application references may file a patent infringement lawsuit after receiving notice of the Paragraph IV certification. Filing of a patent infringement lawsuit triggers a one-time automatic 30-month stay of the FDA's ability to approve the 505(b)(2) application. Accordingly, we may invest a significant amount of time and expense in the development of one or more products only to be subject to significant delay and patent litigation before such products may be commercialized, if at all. A Section 505(b)(2) application may also not be approved until any non-patent exclusivity, such as exclusivity for obtaining approval of a new chemical entity, listed in the Orange Book for the referenced product has expired. The FDA may also require us to perform one or 27 Table of Contents more additional clinical studies or measurements to support the change from the approved product. The FDA may then approve the new formulation for all or only some of the indications sought by us. The FDA may also reject our future Section 505(b)(2) submissions and require us to file such submissions under Section 501(b)(1) of the FDCA, which could be considerably more expensive and time consuming. These factors, among others, may limit our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates. If a product liability claim against us is successful, our business will suffer. Our business involves exposure to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the development production and commercialization of pharmaceutical products. Side effects, manufacturing defects, misuse or abuse of our products could result in patient injury or death. For instance, Lazanda is a self-administered, opioid analgesic that contains fentanyl, a Schedule II "controlled substance" under the CSA. A patient's failure to follow instructions on the use and administration of Lazanda or the abuse of Lazanda could result in injury or death. In addition, patients using Lazanda have been diagnosed with cancer, an often fatal disease. Patient injury or death can result in product liability claims being brought against us, even if our products did not cause an injury or death. Product liability claims may be brought against us by consumers, health care providers, pharmaceutical companies or others who come into contact with our products. We have obtained product liability insurance for clinical trials currently underway and forecasted 2014 sales of our products, but: •we may be unable to maintain product liability insurance on acceptable terms; •we may be unable to obtain product liability insurance for future trials; •we may be unable to obtain product liability insurance for future products; •we may be unable to secure increased coverage as the commercialization of our Acuform gastric retentive technology expands; or •our insurance may not provide adequate protection against potential liabilities. Our inability to obtain or maintain adequate insurance coverage at an acceptable cost could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of our products. Defending a lawsuit could be costly and significantly divert management's attention from conducting our business. If third parties were to bring a successful product liability claim or series of claims against us for uninsured liabilities or in excess of insured liability limits, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Lazanda is a controlled substance and any failure by us or our partners to comply with applicable statutes or regulations could adversely affect our business. Lazanda is an opioid analgesic that contains fentanyl, a regulated "controlled substance" under the Controlled Substances Act of 1970 (CSA). The CSA establishes, among other things, certain registration, production quotas, security, recordkeeping, reporting, import, export and other requirements administered by the DEA. The DEA regulates controlled substances as Schedule I, II, III, IV or V substances, with Schedule II substances being those that present the highest risk of abuse. Fentanyl is listed by the DEA as a Schedule II substance under the CSA. The manufacture, shipment, storage, sale and use, among other things, of controlled substances that are pharmaceutical products are subject to a high degree of regulation. For example, generally all Schedule II substance prescriptions, such as prescriptions for fentanyl, must be written and signed by a physician, physically presented to a pharmacist and may not be refilled without a new prescription. 28 Table of Contents The DEA also conducts periodic inspections of certain registered establishments that handle controlled substances. Facilities that conduct research, manufacture, distribute, import or export controlled substances must be registered to perform these activities and have the security, control and inventory mechanisms required by the DEA to prevent drug loss and diversion. Failure to maintain compliance, particularly non-compliance resulting in loss or diversion, can result in regulatory action that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The DEA may seek civil penalties, refuse to renew necessary registrations, or initiate proceedings to restrict, suspend or revoke those registrations and in certain circumstances, violations could lead to criminal proceedings against us or our manufacturing and distribution partners, and our respective employees, officers and directors. In addition to federal regulations, many individual states also have controlled substances laws. Although state controlled substances laws generally mirror federal law, because the states are separate jurisdictions they may separately schedule our products. Any failure by us or our partners to obtain separate state registrations, permits, or licenses in order to be able to obtain, handle, and distribute fentanyl or to meet applicable regulatory requirements could lead to enforcement and sanctions by the states in addition to those from the DEA or otherwise arising under federal law and would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Limitations on fentanyl production in the United States could limit our ability to successfully commercialize Lazanda. The availability and production of all Schedule II substances, including fentanyl, in the United States is limited by the DEA through a quota system that includes a national aggregate quota and individual company quotas. The DEA annually establishes an aggregate quota for total fentanyl production in the United States based on the DEA's estimate of the quantity needed to meet commercial and scientific need. The aggregate quota of fentanyl that the DEA allows to be produced in the United States annually is allocated among individual companies, which must submit applications annually to the DEA for individual production and procurement quotas. The DEA requires substantial evidence and documentation of expected legitimate medical and scientific needs before assigning quotas to individual companies. The DEA may adjust aggregate production quotas and individual production and procurement quotas from time to time during the year, although the DEA has substantial discretion in whether or not to make such adjustments. Based on a variety of factors, including public policy considerations, the DEA may set the aggregate fentanyl quota lower than the total amount requested by individual companies. Although through our manufacturing partner we are permitted to ask the DEA to increase the annual aggregate quota after it is initially established, we cannot be certain that the DEA would act favorably upon such a request. If our allocated quota of fentanyl is insufficient to meet our commercial demand or clinical needs, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, any delay or refusal by the DEA in establishing the production or procurement quota or any reduction by the DEA in our allocated quota for fentanyl could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The FDA-mandated Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) program may limit the commercial success of Lazanda. Lazanda is subject to a FDA-mandated Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) protocol that requires enrollment and participation in the REMS program to prescribe, dispense or distribute Transmucosal Immediate Release Fentanyl (TIRF) medicines, including Lazanda, for outpatient use. Many physicians, health care practitioners and pharmacies are unwilling to enroll and participate in the TIRF REMS program. As a result, there are relatively few prescribers and dispensers of TIRF products. If we are not able to successfully promote Lazanda to participants in the TIRF REMS program, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. 29 Table of Contents The development of drug candidates is inherently difficult and uncertain and we cannot be certain that any of our product candidates or those of our collaborative partners will be approved for marketing or, if approved, will achieve market acceptance. Clinical development is a long, expensive and uncertain process and is subject to delays and failures. Our own product candidates and those of our collaborative partners are subject to the risk that any or all of them may be found to be ineffective or unsafe, or otherwise may fail to receive necessary regulatory clearances. Positive or encouraging results of prior clinical trials are not necessarily indicative of the results obtained in later clinical trials, as was the case with the Phase 3 trial for Gralise for the management of PHN that we completed in 2007, and with the Phase 3 trials evaluating Sefelsa for menopausal hot flashes, the last of which we completed in October 2011. In addition, data obtained from pivotal clinical trials are susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Other factors could delay or result in termination of our clinical trials, including: •negative or inconclusive results; •patient noncompliance with the protocol; •adverse medical events or side effects among patients during the clinical trials; •FDA inspections of our clinical operations; and •actual or perceived lack of efficacy or safety of the product candidate. We are unable to predict whether any of our product candidates or those of our collaborative partners will receive regulatory clearances or be successfully manufactured or marketed. Further, due to the extended testing and regulatory review process required before marketing clearance can be obtained, the time frame for commercializing a product is long and uncertain. Even if these other product candidates receive regulatory clearance, our products may not achieve or maintain market acceptance. Also, DM-1992 uses the Acuform technology. If it is discovered that the Acuform technology could have adverse effects or other characteristics that indicate it is unlikely to be effective as a delivery system for drugs or therapeutics, our product development efforts and our business could be significantly harmed. Even when or if our products obtain regulatory approval, successful commercialization requires: •market acceptance; •cost-effective commercial scale production; and •reimbursement under private or governmental health plans. Any material delay or failure in the governmental approval process and/or the successful commercialization of our potential products or those of our collaborative partners could adversely impact our financial position and liquidity. We depend on clinical investigators and clinical sites to enroll patients in our clinical trials and other third parties to manage the trials and to perform related data collection and analysis, and, as a result, we may face costs and delays outside of our control. We rely on clinical investigators and clinical sites to enroll patients and other third parties to manage our trials and to perform related data collection and analysis. However, we may be unable to control the amount and timing of resources that the clinical sites that conduct the clinical testing may devote to our clinical trials. If our clinical investigators and clinical sites fail to enroll a sufficient number of patients in our clinical trials or fail to enroll them on our planned schedule, we will be 30 Table of Contents unable to complete these trials or to complete them as planned, which could delay or prevent us from obtaining regulatory approvals for our product candidates. Our agreements with clinical investigators and clinical sites for clinical testing and for trial management services place substantial responsibilities on these parties, which could result in delays in, or termination of, our clinical trials if these parties fail to perform as expected. For example, if any of our clinical trial sites fail to comply with FDA-approved good clinical practices, we may be unable to use the data gathered at those sites. If these clinical investigators, clinical sites or other third parties do not carry out their contractual duties or obligations or fail to meet expected deadlines, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to their failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or for other reasons, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated, and we may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for, or successfully commercialize, our product candidates. Our success is dependent in large part upon the continued services of our Chief Executive Officer and senior management with whom we do not have employment agreements. Our success is dependent in large part upon the continued services of our President and Chief Executive Officer, James A. Schoeneck, and other members of our executive management team, and on our ability to attract and retain key management and operating personnel. We do not have agreements with Mr. Schoeneck or any of our other executive officers that provide for their continued employment with us. We may have difficulty filling open senior commercial, scientific and financial positions. Management, scientific and operating personnel are in high demand in our industry and are often subject to competing offers. The loss of the services of one or more members of management or key employees or the inability to hire additional personnel as needed could result in delays in the research, development and commercialization of our products and potential product candidates. Our operating results may fluctuate and affect our stock price. The following factors will affect our operating results and may result in a material adverse effect on our stock price: •the degree of commercial success of Gralise, Zipsor, Lazanda and CAMBIA; •filings and other regulatory actions related to our product candidates and those of our collaborative partners; •the outcome of our patent infringement litigation against filers of ANDAs for Gralise and Zipsor; •the outcome of our patent infringement litigation against Purdue and Endo; •the outcome of our litigation against the FDA; •developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents, infringement allegations and litigation matters; •decisions by collaborative partners to proceed or not to proceed with subsequent phases of a collaboration or program; •adverse events related to our products, including recalls; •interruptions of manufacturing or supply, or other manufacture or supply difficulties; •variations in revenues obtained from collaborative agreements, including milestone payments, royalties, license fees and other contract revenues; and •adoption of new technologies by us or our competitors. 31 Table of Contents As a result of these factors, our stock price may continue to be volatile and investors may be unable to sell their shares at a price equal to, or above, the price paid. Additionally, any significant drops in our stock price, such as the ones we experienced following the announcement of our Sefelsa Phase 3 trial results in October 2009 and October 2011 the announcement of the vote by the Reproductive Health Drugs Advisory Committee of the FDA against the approval of Sefelsa in March 2013 and the FDA's issuance of a CRL to the NDA for Sefelsa, could give rise to shareholder lawsuits, which are costly and time consuming to defend against and which may adversely affect our ability to raise capital while the suits are pending, even if the suits are ultimately resolved in our favor. We have incurred operating losses in the past and may incur operating losses in the future. To date, we have recorded revenues from license fees, product sales, royalties, collaborative research and development arrangements and feasibility studies. For the year ended December 31, 2013, we recognized net income of $43.3 million. For the year ended December 31, 2012, we incurred a net loss of $29.8 million. Collaborative milestones and settlement fees received from Abbott Products, Janssen and Merck resulted in our reaching profitability of $70.7 million and $3.9 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively. Although we have achieved profitability for certain prior periods, we may incur operating losses in 2014 and in future years. Any such losses may have an adverse impact on our total assets, shareholders' equity and working capital. Our existing capital resources may not be sufficient to fund our future operations or product acquisitions and strategic transactions which we may pursue. We fund our operations primarily through revenues from product sales and do not have any committed sources of capital. To the extent that our existing capital resources and revenues from ongoing operations are insufficient to fund our future operations, or product acquisitions and strategic transactions which we may pursue, we will have to raise additional funds through the sale of our equity securities, through debt financing or from development and licensing arrangements. We may be unable to raise such additional capital on favorable terms, or at all. If we raise additional capital by selling our equity or convertible debt securities, the issuance of such securities could result in dilution of our shareholders' equity positions. We have implemented certain anti-takeover provisions. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and the California General Corporation Law could discourage a third party from acquiring, or make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, control of our company without approval of our board of directors. These provisions could also limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Certain provisions allow the board of directors to authorize the issuance of preferred stock with rights superior to those of the common stock. We are also subject to the provisions of Section 1203 of the California General Corporation Law which requires a fairness opinion to be provided to our shareholders in connection with their consideration of any proposed "interested party" reorganization transaction. We have adopted a shareholder rights plan, commonly known as a "poison pill." The provisions described above, our poison pill and provisions of the California General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. If we are unable to satisfy regulatory requirements relating to internal controls, our stock price could suffer. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires companies to conduct a comprehensive evaluation of their internal control over financial reporting. At the end of each fiscal year, we must perform an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting, include in our annual report the 32 Table of Contents results of the evaluation and have our external auditors publicly attest to such evaluation. If material weaknesses are found in our internal controls in the future, if we fail to complete future evaluations on time or if our external auditors cannot attest to our future evaluations, we could fail to meet our regulatory reporting requirements and be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal controls, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. The value of our deferred tax assets could become impaired, which could adversely affect our operating results. As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $103.2 million in net deferred tax assets. These deferred tax assets are principally comprised of a temporary difference related to the income tax recognition effect of the PDL transaction and other temporary differences that are expected to reverse in the future. We assess on a quarterly basis the probability of the realization of deferred tax assets, using significant judgments and estimates with respect to, among other things, historical operating results, expectations of future earnings and significant risks and uncertainties related to our business. If we determine in the future that there is not sufficient positive evidence to support the valuation of these assets, due to the risk factors described herein or other factors, we may be required to further adjust the valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets. Such a reduction could result in material non-cash expenses in the period in which the valuation allowance is adjusted and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Business interruptions could limit our ability to operate our business. Our operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from computer viruses, human error, natural disasters, telecommunications failures, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events. In particular, our corporate headquarters are located in the San Francisco Bay area, which has a history of seismic activity. We have not established a formal disaster recovery plan, and our back-up operations and our business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for losses that occur. A significant business interruption could result in losses or damages incurred by us and require us to cease or curtail our operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 