Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully read and consider the risk factors described below as well as other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the information contained in other filings with the SEC. Any of these risks, if they actually occur, could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known by us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may materially and adversely affect us. The failure of the Company and/or the Bank to comply with applicable regulatory requirements and regulatory enforcement actions could result in further restrictions and enforcement actions. The Bank is subject to supervision and regulation by the OCC and FDIC and the Company is subject to supervision and regulation by the FRB. As a federally chartered stock savings and loan association, the Bank’s good standing with its regulators is of fundamental importance to the continuation of its business and the business of the Company. On April 12, 2010, the Company and the Bank both consented to the Orders issued by the OTS. The Orders required the Company and the Bank to, among other things, file with the OTS an updated business plan and capital plan and submit to the OTS (OCC and FRB effective July 21, 2011), on a quarterly basis with respect to the business plan and monthly with respect to the capital plan, variance reports related to the plans. The Orders impose certain operations restrictions on the Company and, to a greater extent, the Bank, including lending and dividend restrictions. In particular, the Bank must seek the prior non-objection of the OCC before making certain kinds of loans. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant additional regulatory compliance expense in connection with the Orders, and we will incur ongoing expenses attributable to compliance with the terms of the Orders. In addition, the OCC and FRB must approve any deviation from our business plan, which could limit our ability to make any changes to our business, which could negatively impact the scope and flexibility of our business activities. While the Company and the Bank intend to take such actions as may be necessary to comply with the requirements of the Orders, the Company and the Bank may be unable to comply fully with the Orders, and efforts to comply with the Orders may have adverse effects on the operations and financial condition of the Company or the Bank. In addition, the Bank from time to time may require waivers, amendments, or modifications in order to remain in compliance with the Orders, and the regulators may not grant such relief. Any material failure by the Company and the Bank to comply with the provisions of the Orders could result in further enforcement actions by the FRB and/or the OCC which could impact our ability to operate in the normal course of business and, thereby, adversely affect our results of operations. Future bank failures across the country could significantly increase FDIC premiums. Recent difficult economic conditions have resulted in higher bank failures and expectations of future bank failures. In the event of a bank failure, the FDIC takes control of a failed bank and ensures payment of deposits up to insured limits (which have recently been increased) using the resources of the DIF. The FDIC is required by law to maintain adequate funding of the DIF, and the FDIC may increase premium assessments to maintain such funding. Recent bank failures have substantially depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the fund's ratio of reserves to insured deposits. If the FDIC elects to increase deposit insurance premiums and assessments, non-interest expense could increase significantly. Future bank failures in local markets could cause large sales of bank-owned properties, reducing the value of our REO, resulting in additional losses, costs and expenses that may negatively affect the Company’s operations. Further bank failures in the Bank’s geographic regions could adversely impact the value of real estate owned. Declines in the housing market, with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, have negatively impacted the credit performance of real estate loans and resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions in our markets. Future bank failures in the areas in which we operate would exacerbate these conditions. Such effects may be particularly pronounced in a market like Northwest Arkansas with reduced real estate values and excess inventory, which may make the disposition of REO properties more difficult, increase maintenance costs and expenses, and reduce the Company’s ultimate realization from any REO sales. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company had $28.1 million and $44.7 million of REO, respectively. As the amount of REO in our market areas increases, the Company’s losses and the costs and expenses of maintaining the real estate will likewise increase. Any additional increase in losses, and maintenance costs and expenses due to REO could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The current economic environment poses significant challenges for us and could continue to adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company is operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment, including generally uncertain national and local conditions. Financial institutions continue to be affected by sharp declines in the real estate market and constrained financial markets. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past several years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by the Bank and other financial institutions. Continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes, and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment could continue to have an adverse effect on the Bank’s borrowers or their customers, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects on the Company and others in the financial services industry. For example, further deterioration in local economic conditions in the Company’s markets could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in its allowance for loan losses or could require further write-downs of the Bank’s real estate owned. The Company may also face the following risks in connection with these events: 16 § Economic conditions in the markets in which we operate that negatively affect housing prices and the job market have resulted, and may continue to result, in deterioration in credit quality of the Bank’s loan portfolio, and such deterioration in credit quality has had, and could continue to have, a negative impact on the Company’s business and financial condition. § Market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates on loans and other credit facilities. § The processes the Company uses to estimate the allowance for loan losses may no longer be reliable because they rely on complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation. § The Bank’s ability to assess the creditworthiness of its customers may be impaired if the processes and approaches it uses to select, manage, and underwrite its customers become less predictive of future charge-offs. § The Company has faced and expects to continue to face increased regulation of its industry, and compliance with such regulation has increased and may continue to increase its costs, limit its ability to pursue business opportunities, and increase compliance challenges. As these conditions or similar ones continue to exist or worsen, the Company could experience continuing or increased adverse effects on its financial condition and results of operations. We have a high percentage of nonperforming loans and classified assets relative to total assets. If the allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, results of operations will be adversely affected. At December 31, 2011, nonperforming loans totaled $34.0 million, representing 9.7% of total loans and 5.9% of total assets. At December 31, 2011, real estate owned totaled $28.1 million or 4.9% of total assets. As a result, the Company’s total nonperforming assets amounted to $62.5 million or 10.8% of total assets at December 31, 2011. Further, assets classified by management as substandard, including nonperforming loans and real estate owned, totaled $103.1 million, representing 17.8% of total assets. At December 31, 2011, the allowance for loan losses was $20.8 million, representing 60.6% of nonperforming loans. In the event loan customers do not repay their loans according to their terms and the collateral securing the payment of these loans is insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance, significant loan losses could result, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Management maintains an allowance for loan losses based upon, among other things: • historical experience; • repayment capacity of borrowers; • an evaluation of local, regional and national economic conditions; • regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality; • collateral evaluations; • current trends regarding the volume and severity of problem loans; • the existence and effect of concentrations of credit; and • results of regulatory examinations. Based on these factors, management makes various assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectability of the respective loan portfolios. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and management must make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. In addition, the Board of Directors and the OCC periodically review the allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs. The OCC’s judgments may differ from management. While we believe that the allowance for loan losses is adequate to cover current losses, we may determine that we need to increase the allowance for loan losses or regulators may require an increase in the allowance. Either of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Any further increases to the allowance for loan losses and operating losses could negatively impact capital levels and make it more difficult to maintain the capital levels set forth in the Bank Order. 17 A portion of the loan portfolio is related to commercial real estate, construction, commercial business and consumer lending activities and certain loans are secured by vacant or unimproved land. Uncertainties related to these lending activities may negatively impact these loans and could adversely impact results of operations. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 30% of loans were related to commercial real estate and construction projects. Commercial real estate and construction lending generally is considered to involve a higher degree of risk than single family residential lending due to a variety of factors, including generally larger loan balances, the dependency on successful completion or operation of the project for repayment, the difficulties in estimating construction costs and loan terms which often do not require full amortization of the loan over its term and, instead, provide for a balloon payment at stated maturity. The loan portfolio also includes commercial business loans to small- to medium-sized businesses, which generally are secured by various equipment, machinery and other corporate assets, and a variety of consumer loans, including automobile loans, deposit account secured loans and unsecured loans. Although commercial business loans and consumer loans generally have shorter terms and higher interest rates than mortgage loans, they generally involve more risk than mortgage loans because of the nature of, or in certain cases the absence of, the collateral which secures such loans. In addition, a portion of the loan portfolio is secured by vacant or unimproved land. Loans secured by vacant or unimproved land are generally more risky than loans secured by improved one- to four-family residential property. Since vacant or unimproved land is generally held by the borrower for investment purposes or future use, payments on loans secured by vacant or unimproved land will typically rank lower in priority to the borrower than a loan the borrower may have on their primary residence or business. These loans are susceptible to adverse conditions in the real estate market and local economy. Uncertainties related to these lending activities could result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. We have had losses in recent periods and may be unable to return to profitability in the near future which would adversely affect our stock price. We incurred net losses available to common stockholders of $8.5 million and $4.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. A return to profitability will depend on our ability to implement our business plan and reduce credit losses and other real estate owned losses and write-downs in the future, which will depend, in part, on whether economic conditions in our markets improve. We may be unsuccessful in executing our business plan. Further, even if we successfully implement the business plan, we may be unable to curtail losses now or in the future. If we continue to incur significant operating losses, our stock price may decline. We experienced an ownership change in connection with the investment by Bear State which resulted in a limitation of the use of net operating losses. The Recapitalization constituted as an “ownership change” as defined for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In general, under Section 382 of the Code, a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change net operating losses (“NOLs”) to offset future taxable income. Section 382 imposes an annual limitation on the amount of post-ownership change taxable income a corporation may offset with pre-ownership change NOL carryforwards and certain recognized built-in losses. At December 31, 2011, the Bank had a $9.3 million NOL for federal income tax purposes that will be carried forward. The Company experienced a permanent loss of approximately $5.7 million of its NOLs to offset future taxable income. We are heavily regulated, and that regulation could limit or restrict our activities and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies, including the OCC, the FRB and the FDIC. Compliance with these regulations is costly and may restrict some of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates and locations of offices. The regulators’ interpretation and application of relevant regulations are beyond our control and may change rapidly and unpredictably. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors. The regulations to which we are subject may not always be in the best interest of investors. 18 In light of current conditions in the global financial markets and the global economy, regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. Over the past several years, the U.S. financial regulators responding to directives of the Obama Administration and Congress have intervened on an unprecedented scale. New legislative proposals continue to be introduced in the U.S. Congress that could further substantially increase regulation of the financial services industry and impose restrictions on the operations and general ability of firms within the industry to conduct business consistent with historical practices, including with respect to compensation, interest rates and the effect of bankruptcy proceedings on consumer real property mortgages. Further, federal and state regulatory agencies may adopt changes to their regulations and/or change the manner in which existing regulations are applied. We cannot predict the substance or effect of pending or future legislation or regulation or the application of laws and regulation to us. Compliance with current and potential regulation and scrutiny may significantly increase costs, impede the efficiency of internal business processes, require us to increase regulatory capital and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities in an efficient manner by requiring us to expend significant time, effort and resources to ensure compliance. Additionally, evolving regulations concerning executive compensation may impose limitations that affect our ability to compete successfully for executive and management talent. In addition, given the current economic and financial environment, our regulators may elect to alter standards or the interpretation of the standards used to measure regulatory compliance or to determine the adequacy of liquidity, certain risk management or other operational practices for financial services companies in a manner that impacts our ability to implement our strategy and could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, the regulatory agencies have discretion in their interpretation of the regulations and laws and their interpretation of the quality of our loan portfolio, securities portfolio and other assets. If any regulatory agency’s assessment of our assets quality differs from ours, we may be required to take additional charges that would have the effect of materially reducing our earnings, capital ratios and stock price. The U.S. Congress passed the Dodd-Frank Act on July 21, 2010, which includes sweeping changes in the banking regulatory environment. The Dodd-Frank Act changed our primary regulator and may, among other things, restrict or increase the regulation of certain business activities and increase the cost of doing business. While many of the provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act are aimed at financial institutions significantly larger than us, and some will affect only institutions with different charters than us or institutions that engage in activities in which we do not engage, it will likely increase our regulatory compliance burden and may have other adverse effects on us, including increasing the costs associated with regulatory examinations and compliance measures. We are closely monitoring all relevant sections of the Dodd-Frank Act to ensure continued compliance with laws and regulations. While the ultimate effect of the Dodd-Frank Act on us is still undetermined, the law is likely to result in increased compliance costs and fees paid to regulators, along with possible restrictions on our operations. Further, the U.S. Congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory authorities continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including interpretation and implementation of statutes, regulation or policies, including the Dodd-Frank Act, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, including limiting the types of financial services and products we may offer or increasing the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products. While we cannot predict the regulatory changes that may be borne out of the current economic crisis, and we cannot predict whether we will become subject to increased regulatory scrutiny by any of these regulatory agencies, any regulatory changes or scrutiny could increase or decrease the cost of doing business, limit or expand permissible activities, or affect the competitive balance among banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations and other institutions. We cannot predict whether additional legislation will be enacted and, if enacted, the effect that it, or any regulations, would have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We could be materially and adversely affected if we or any of our officers or directors fail to comply with bank and other laws and regulations. The Company and the Bank are subject to extensive regulation by U.S. federal and state regulatory agencies and face risks associated with investigations and proceedings by regulatory agencies, including those that we may believe to be immaterial. Like any corporation, we are also subject to risk arising from potential employee misconduct, including non-compliance with policies. Any interventions by authorities may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions, suspension or expulsion of our officers or directors from the banking industry or other relief. In addition to the monetary consequences, these measures could, for example, impact our ability to engage in, or impose limitations on, certain businesses. The number of these investigations and proceedings, as well as the amount of penalties and fines sought, has increased substantially in recent years with regard to many firms in the industry. Significant regulatory action against us or our officers or directors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause us significant reputational harm, which could seriously harm our business. 19 Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The operations of financial institutions such as the Bank are dependent to a large extent on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on interest earning assets such as loans and investment securities and the interest expense paid on interest bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. Approximately 46% of loans had variable rates as of December 31, 2011, which means that interest income will generally decrease in lower rate environments and rise in higher rate environments. Changes in the general level of interest rates can affect net interest income by affecting the difference between the weighted average yield earned on interest earning assets and the weighted average rate paid on interest bearing liabilities, or interest rate spread, and the average life of interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities. Changes in interest rates also can affect our ability to originate loans; the value of our interest earning assets; our ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives; and the ability of borrowers to repay adjustable or variable rate loans. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. In particular, the Company had $62.1 million of investment securities at December 31, 2011, all of which were classified as available for sale. At December 31, 2011, the investment securities portfolio had a net unrealized gain of $898,000 given the current low interest rate environment. A significant and prolonged increase in interest rates will have a material adverse effect on the fair value of the investment securities portfolio and, accordingly, stockholders’ equity. Results of operations may be adversely affected during any period of changes in interest rates due to a number of factors which can have a material adverse impact on the Bank’s interest rate risk position. Such factors include among other items, call features and interest rate caps and floors on various assets and liabilities, prepayments, the current interest rates on assets and liabilities to be repriced in each period, and the relative changes in interest rates on different types of assets and liabilities. We may incur increased employee benefit costs which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The Bank is a participant in the multiemployer Pentegra DB Plan (the “Pentegra DB Plan”). Since the Pentegra DB Plan is a multiemployer plan, contributions of participating employers are commingled and invested on a pooled basis without allocation to specific employers or employees. Assets contributed to a multiemployer plan by one employer may be used to provide benefits to employees of other participating employers. In addition, if a participating employer stops contributing to the plan, the unfunded obligations of the multiemployer plan may be borne by the remaining participating employers. On April 30, 2010, the Board of Directors of the Bank elected to freeze the Pentegra DB Plan effective July 1, 2010, eliminating all future benefit accruals for participants in the Pentegra DB Plan and closing the Pentegra DB Plan to new participants as of that date. The Pentegra DB Plan is noncontributory and prior to July 1, 2010 covered substantially all employees. Since July 1, 2010, the Bank has continued to incur costs consisting of administration and Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation insurance expenses as well as amortization charges based on the funding level of the Pentegra DB Plan. The level of amortization charges is determined by the Pentegra DB Plan's funding shortfall, which is determined by comparing the Pentegra DB Plan’s liabilities to the Pentegra DB Plan’s assets. Based on the level of interest rates and Pentegra DB Plan assets, the funding shortfall increased, resulting in increased amortization charges effective both July 1, 2010 and July 1, 2011. Future pension funding requirements, and the timing of funding payments, are also subject to changes in legislation. Based on factors that influence the levels of plan assets and liabilities, such as the level of interest rates and the performance of plan assets, it is reasonably possible that events could occur that would materially change the estimated amount of the Bank’s required contribution in the near term. Additionally, if the Bank were to terminate its participation in the Pentegra DB Plan, the Bank could incur a significant withdrawal liability. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We face strong competition that may adversely affect our profitability. We are subject to vigorous competition in all aspects and areas of our business from banks and other financial institutions, including commercial banks, savings and loan associations, savings banks, finance companies, credit unions and other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, consumer finance companies and insurance companies. We also compete with non-financial institutions, including retail stores that maintain their own credit programs and governmental agencies that make available low cost or guaranteed loans to certain borrowers. Many of our competitors are larger financial institutions with substantially greater resources, lending limits, and larger branch systems. These competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than we can. Competition from both bank and non-bank organizations will continue. Our inability to compete successfully could adversely affect profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to successfully compete may be reduced if we are unable to make technological advances. The banking industry is experiencing rapid changes in technology. In addition to improving customer services, effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. As a result, our future success will depend in part on our ability to address our customers’ needs by using technology. We may be unable to effectively develop new technology-driven products and services and may be unsuccessful in marketing these products to our customers. Many of our competitors have greater resources than we have to invest in technology. Any failure to keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. 20 We are subject to security and operational risks relating to our use of technology that could damage our reputation and our business. Security breaches in our internet banking activities could expose us to possible liability and damage our reputation. Any compromise of our security also could deter customers from using our internet banking services that involve the transmission of confidential information. We rely on standard internet security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data. These precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of our security measures that could result in damage to our reputation and our business. Additionally, we outsource our data processing to a third party. If our third party provider encounters difficulties or if we have difficulty in communicating with such third party, it could significantly affect our ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions, which could significantly affect our business operations. The Bank has never incurred a material security breach nor encountered any significant down time with our outsourced partners. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our systems could damage our reputation, result in loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The trading volume of our common stock is lower than that of other financial services companies and the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, which can make it difficult to sell shares of our common stock at times, volumes and prices attractive to our stockholders. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol “FFBH.” The average daily trading volume for shares of our common stock is lower than larger financial institutions. Because the trading volume of our common stock is lower, and thus has substantially less liquidity than the average trading market for many other publicly traded companies, sales of our common stock may place significant downward pressure on the market price of our common stock. In addition, market value of thinly traded stocks can be more volatile than stocks trading in an active public market. The market price of our common stock has been volatile in the past and may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, in addition to those described in elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K: · actual or anticipated quarterly or annual fluctuations in our operating results, cash flows and financial condition; · changes in earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to us or other financial institutions; · speculation in the press or investment community generally or relating to our reputation or the financial services industry; · strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, restructurings, dispositions or financings; · fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; · future issuances or re-sales of our equity or equity-related securities, or the perception that they may occur; · proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments; · anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings, or litigation or accounting matters that involve or affect us; · domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance; and · general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry. In addition, in recent years, the stock markets in general have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, and market prices for the stock of many companies, including those in the financial services sector, have experienced wide price fluctuations that have not necessarily been related to operating performance. This is due, in part, to investors’ shifting perceptions of the effect of changes and potential changes in the economy on various industry sectors. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including for reasons unrelated to their performance or prospects. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, notwithstanding our actual or anticipated operating results, cash flows and financial condition. We expect that the market price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate due to many factors, including prevailing interest rates, other economic conditions, our operating performance and investor perceptions of the outlook for us specifically and the banking industry in general. 21 As a result of the lower trading volume of our common stock and its susceptibility to market price volatility, stockholders may not be able to resell their shares at times, volumes or prices they find attractive. Bear State holds a controlling interest in our common stock and may have interests that differ from the interests of our other stockholders. Bear State owns approximately 82% of our common stock (after taking into account the assumed exercise of the Investor Warrant) and designated five of eight members for appointment to our Board of Directors. As a result, Bear State is able to control the election of directors, to determine our corporate and management policies and determine the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval. Such transactions may include mergers and acquisitions, sales of all or some of the Company’s assets or purchases of assets, and other significant corporate transactions. Bear State also has sufficient voting power to amend our organizational documents. The interests of Bear State may differ from those of our other stockholders, and it may take actions that advance its interests to the detriment of our other stockholders. Additionally, Bear State is in the business of making investments in or acquiring financial institutions and may, from time to time, acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Bear State may also pursue, for its own account, acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. This concentration of ownership could also have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in our control or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination that could be favorable to the other holders of our common stock, and the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected by the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. As a controlled company, we are exempt from certain NASDAQ corporate governance requirements, and holders of our common stock may not have all the protections that these rules are intended to provide. Our common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Global Market. NASDAQ generally requires a majority of directors to be independent and requires independent director oversight over the nominating and executive compensation functions. However, under NASDAQ’s rules, if an individual or another entity owns more than 50% of the voting power for the election of directors of a listed company, that company is considered a “controlled company” and is exempt from rules relating to independence of the board of directors and the compensation and nominating committees. We are a controlled company because Bear State owns more than 50% of our voting power for the election of directors. Accordingly, we are exempt from certain corporate governance requirements, and holders of our common stock may not have all the protections that these rules are intended to provide. We are prohibited from paying dividends or repurchasing common stock and may not be able to resume such activities even if permitted by our regulators. Under the Company Order, we may not pay dividends on our common stock or repurchase shares of our common stock without the prior written non-objection of the FRB. We cannot determine at this time if or when we would be able to pay dividends or repurchase shares of our common stock even if we are allowed to do so by our regulators. Any future payment of any dividends on both our common stock and any preferred stock and any repurchases of our common stock, will be dependent upon, among other things, our regulatory capital requirements, our financial condition, liquidity, results of operations, and cash flow, tax considerations, statutory, regulatory and contractual prohibition and other limitations, and general economic conditions. 22 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 