Item 1A. Risk Factors This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The use of words such as "anticipates," "estimates," "expects," "projects," "intends," "plans" and "believes," among others, generally identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, among others, statements relating to: the Company's anticipated financial performance, business prospects and, anticipated trends and prospects in the various industries in which Ticketmaster Entertainment businesses operate, new products, services and related strategies and other similar matters. These forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and assumptions about future events, which are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements included in this report for a variety of reasons, including, among others, the risk factors set forth below. Other unknown or unpredictable factors that could also adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations may arise from time to time. In light of these risks and uncertainties, the forward-looking statements discussed in this report may not prove to be accurate. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which only reflect the views of our management as of the date of this report. The Company does not undertake to update these forward-looking statements. On January 25, 2010, the Company merged into a subsidiary of Live Nation, and thereby became an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of Live Nation. For a description of risks related to the merger and Live Nation, please see the section entitled "Risk Factors" in Live Nation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, which is incorporated by reference herein. We describe our business risk factors below. 6 Table of Contents RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS Live Entertainment Industry and General Economic Trends—The Company's success depends, in significant part, on entertainment, sporting and leisure events and factors adversely affecting such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Through its ticketing segment, the Company sells tickets to live entertainment, sporting and leisure events at arenas, stadiums, theaters and other facilities. Through its artist services segment, the Company provides artist management services to over 200 clients, and derives significant revenues from touring and live concerts by these clients. Accordingly, the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations are directly affected by the popularity, frequency and location of such events. Ticket sales are sensitive to fluctuations in the number and pricing of entertainment, sporting and leisure events and activities offered by promoters, teams and facilities, and adverse trends in the entertainment; sporting and leisure event industries could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. The ticketing segment relies on third parties to create and perform live entertainment, sporting and leisure events and to price tickets to such events. Accordingly, the Company's success depends, in part, upon the ability of these third parties to correctly anticipate public demand for particular events and the prices that the public is willing to pay to attend such events, as well as the availability of popular artists, entertainers and teams. Similarly, the artist services segment could be adversely affected if the artists it represents do not tour or perform as frequently as anticipated, or if such tours or performances are not as widely attended by fans as anticipated due to changing tastes, general economic conditions or otherwise. In addition, general economic conditions, consumer trends, work stoppages, natural disasters and terrorism could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Entertainment-related expenditures are particularly sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels, which tend to decline during general economic downturns. Recent market conditions have been extremely volatile and unemployment rates have risen in recent months. A protracted global recession could have a significant negative impact on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, public heath issues or a health epidemic could result in the cancellation of live entertainment events or in lower attendance and ticket sales if fans choose to not attend events they would otherwise attend out of heath concerns. Recently, human cases of swine flu virus infection have been identified in the United States and internationally. If public health issues such as the swine flu were to result in the cancellation of live entertainment events or diminished ticket sales, the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted. Third Party Relationships—The Company depends on relationships with clients and any adverse changes in these relationships could adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company's success is dependent, in significant part, on the ability of the Company's businesses to maintain and renew relationships with existing clients and to establish new client relationships. The Company anticipates that for the foreseeable future, the substantial majority of its revenues from the ticketing segment will be derived from online and offline sales of tickets. The Company also expects that revenues from primary ticketing services, which consist primarily of per ticket convenience charges and per order "order processing" fees, will continue to comprise the substantial majority of its consolidated revenues for the ticketing segment. In addition, as is typical of the artist management industry, certain of the Company's arrangements with clients of the artist services segment are terminable at will by either party. The loss of key artists could negatively impact the Company's business. While fees from management services represent slightly less than half the revenue of the Company's artist services segment, and no individual client represents more than 10% of revenue from 7 Table of Contents management services, the loss of a number of key artists could negatively impact the Company's business. In addition, as the relationship between a manager and artist is highly personalized, the loss of a manager may also result in a loss in the artist represented by the manager, which could negatively impact the Company's business. The Company cannot provide assurances that its businesses will be able to maintain other existing client contracts, or enter into or maintain new client contracts, on acceptable terms, if at all, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. As explained above and in the below risk factor, the ticketing business is highly competitive. A number of competing national, regional, and local ticketing service providers are aggressively seeking to secure ticketing contracts from existing and potential clients of the Company. In addition, facilities, promoters and other potential clients are increasingly electing to self-ticket and/or distribute a growing number of tickets through client direct or other new channels, which could adversely impact the ability of the Company's businesses to secure renewals and new client contracts. The non-renewal or termination of an agreement with a major client or multiple agreements with a combination of smaller clients could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Another important component of the Company's success is the ability of the Company's businesses to maintain existing and build new relationships with third party distribution channels and service providers, including providers of credit card processing and delivery services, as well as advertisers, among other parties. Any adverse changes in these relationships, including the inability of these parties to fulfill their obligations to the Company's businesses for any reason, could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition—The ticketing and artist services industries are highly competitive and competitors may win business away from the Company, which could adversely affect the Company's financial performance. The ticketing industry is highly competitive. The Company faces significant competition from other national, regional and local primary ticketing service providers to secure new and retain existing clients on a continuous basis. Additionally, the Company faces significant and increasing challenges from companies that sell self-ticketing systems and from clients who are increasingly choosing to self-ticket, through the integration of self-ticketing systems into their existing operations or the acquisition of primary ticket services providers and by increasing sales through facility box offices and season, subscription or group sales. The Company also faces competition in the resale of tickets from online auction websites and resale marketplaces and from other ticket resellers with online distribution capabilities. The intense competition that the Company faces in the ticketing industry could cause the volume of its ticketing services business to decline. The Company and Live Nation have entered into an agreement with the Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. ("AEG") which provides that AEG has an option to license the Company's Ticketmaster Host technology in order to ticket its owned and operated venues and ticket third party clients using such technology and the Company and Live Nation have agreed with the United States Department of Justice ("DOJ") to divest the Company's Paciolan, Inc. ticketing business, both of which will further increase the competition that the Company faces. In the secondary ticket sales market, the Company has restrictions on its business that are not faced by its competitors, which restrictions are both self-imposed and imposed as a result of agreements entered into by the Company with the Federal Trade Commission ("FTC") and the Attorneys General of several individual states. These restrictions primarily relate to the Company's TicketsNow business, and include a restriction on linking from the Company's page on the www.ticketmaster.com website that informs consumers that no tickets were found in response to their ticket request to its TicketsNow re-sale website without first obtaining approval from the State of New Jersey as to the exact disclosure language, architecture and functionality of such link; a prohibition on the sale of tickets to non-sporting 8 Table of Contents events (for which tickets are being sold on Ticketmaster's website) through the TicketsNow website until the initial on-sale time at the Ticketmaster primary ticketing website; a prohibition on paid internet search advertising that would lead consumers searching for "Ticketmaster" on internet search engines to the TicketsNow website; a restriction on using or allowing its affiliates to use domain names that, among other things, contain the unique names of venues, sports teams or performers, or contain names that are substantially similar to or are misspelled versions of same; a requirement to clearly and conspicuously disclose on the TicketsNow website (or any other resale website owned by the Company, or on any primary ticketing website where a link or redirect to such a resale website is posted) that it is a resale website and ticket prices often exceed the ticket's original price; and a requirement to make certain clear and conspicuous disclosure when a ticket being offered for re-sale is not "in-hand" as well as a requirement to monitor and enforce the compliance of third parties offering tickets on the Company's websites with such disclosure requirements. The Company's competitors in the secondary ticket sales market are not, to the Company's knowledge, bound by similar restrictions. As a result, the Company's ability to effectively compete in the secondary ticket sales market, through its TicketsNow business or otherwise, may be adversely affected, which could in turn adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully in the future with existing or potential competitors or that competition will not have an adverse effect on its business and financial condition. Moreover, as the Company expands into new lines of businesses (including as a result of the merger with Live Nation), the Company may face direct competition, in the live music industry, with its prospective or current primary ticketing clients, who primarily include live event content providers (such as owners or operators of live event venues, promoters of concerts and sports teams, among others). This direct competition with the Company's prospective or current primary ticketing clients could result in a decline in the number of clients the Company has and a decline in the volume of its ticketing services business, which could adversely affect its business and financial condition. The artist services industry is also a highly competitive industry. There are numerous other music management companies and individual managers in the United States alone. The Company competes with these companies and individuals to discover new and emerging artists and to represent established acts. In addition, certain of the Company's arrangements with clients of the Company's artist services business are terminable at will by either party, leading to competition to retain those artists as clients. Competition is intense and may contribute to a decline in the volume of the Company's artist services business, which could adversely affect the Company's business and financial condition. Covenants in the Company's debt agreements restrict the Company's business in many ways and if the Company does not effectively manage its business to comply with these covenants, its financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The Company's senior secured credit facilities and/or the indenture governing the Ticketmaster Entertainment 10.75% Senior Notes due 2016 contain various covenants that limit the Company's ability and/or the Company's restricted subsidiaries' ability to, among other things: •incur or assume liens or additional debt or provide guarantees in respect of obligations of other persons; •issue redeemable stock and preferred stock; •pay dividends or distributions or redeem or repurchase capital stock; •prepay, redeem or repurchase debt; •make loans and investments; 9 Table of Contents •enter into agreements that restrict distributions from the Company's subsidiaries; •sell assets and capital stock of the Company's subsidiaries; •enter into certain transactions with affiliates; and •consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of the Company's assets to, another person. In addition, the Company's senior secured credit facilities require it to maintain specified financial ratios. The Company's ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond the Company's control, and the Company may be unable to meet those tests. Among other things, certain adjustments required in connection with the merger with Live Nation as a result of the Company's status as the deemed accounting acquired company may make it more difficult for the Company to comply with these financial ratios. In addition, a failure on the Company's part to maintain effective internal controls to measure compliance with these covenants could affect its ability to take corrective actions on a timely basis, and could result in its being in breach. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the Company's senior secured credit facilities and/or the Company's other indebtedness. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the Company's senior secured credit facilities, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the senior secured credit facilities to be immediately due and payable. If the Company were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness, which constitutes a significant portion of the Company's assets. If the lenders under the Company's senior secured credit facilities accelerate the repayment of borrowings, the Company may not have sufficient assets to repay its senior secured credit facilities and its other indebtedness. The Company's borrowings under its senior secured credit facilities are, and are expected to continue to be, at variable rates of interest and expose it to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, the Company's debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and the Company's net income would decrease. International Presence and Expansion—The Company's businesses operate in international markets in which the Company has limited experience. The Company's businesses may not be able to successfully expand into new, or further into existing, international markets. The Company provides services in various jurisdictions abroad through a number of brands and businesses that it owns and operates, as well as through joint ventures, and expects to continue to expand its international presence. The Company faces, and expects to continue to face, additional risks in the case of its existing and future international operations, including: •political instability and unfavorable economic conditions in the markets in which the Company currently has international operations or into which its brands and businesses may expand; •more restrictive or otherwise unfavorable government regulation of the live entertainment and ticketing industries, including the regulation of the provision of primary ticketing and ticket resale services, as well as promotional, marketing and other related services, which could result in increased compliance costs and/or otherwise restrict the manner in which the Company's businesses provide services and the amount of related fees charged for such services; •limitations on the enforcement of intellectual property rights, which would preclude the Company from building the brand recognition upon which it has come to rely in many jurisdictions; •limitations on the ability of foreign subsidiaries to repatriate profits or otherwise remit earnings to the Company; 10 Table of Contents •adverse tax consequences; •limitations on technology infrastructure, which could limit the Company's ability to migrate international operations to the Ticketmaster System, which would result in increased costs; •lower levels of Internet usage, credit card usage and consumer spending in comparison to those in the United States; and •difficulties in managing operations and adapting to consumer desires due to distance, language and cultural differences, including issues associated with (i) business practices and customs that are common in certain foreign countries but might be prohibited by United States law and the Company's internal policies and procedures, and (ii) management and operational systems and infrastructures, including internal financial control and reporting systems and functions, staffing and managing foreign operations, which the Company might not be able to do effectively, or if so, on a cost-effective basis. The Company's ability to expand its international operations into new jurisdictions, or further into existing jurisdictions will depend, in significant part, on its ability to identify potential acquisition candidates, joint venture or other partners, and enter into arrangements with these parties on favorable terms, as well as the Company's ability to make continued investments to maintain and grow existing international operations. If the revenues generated by international operations are insufficient to offset expenses incurred in connection with the maintenance and growth of these operations, the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, in an effort to make international operations in one or more given jurisdictions profitable over the long term, significant additional investments that are not profitable over the short term could be required over a prolonged period. In addition, the ticketing industry in many jurisdictions abroad is more fragmented and local than it is in the United States. The Company's success in these markets will depend on the ability of the Company's businesses to create economies of scale by consolidating within each market geographically, which would most likely occur over a prolonged period, during which significant investments in technology and infrastructure would be required. In the case of expansion through organic growth, the Company could face substantial barriers to entry in new markets, and barriers impeding expansion within existing markets, due primarily to the risks and concerns discussed above, among others. Foreign Currency Risks—The Company faces risks and uncertainties related to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. To the extent that costs and prices for services are established in local currencies and adjusted to U.S. dollars based on then-current exchange rates, the Company will be exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. After accounting for such fluctuations, the Company may be required to record significant gains or losses, the amount of which will vary based on then-current exchange rates, which could cause its results to differ materially from expectations. As the Company continues to expand its international presence, its exposure to exchange rate fluctuations will increase, which may have a negative impact on its financial results. Changing Customer Requirements and Industry Standards—The Company's businesses may not be able to adapt quickly enough to changing customer requirements and industry standards. The e-commerce industry is characterized by evolving industry standards, frequent new service and product introductions and enhancements and changing customer demands. The Company's businesses may not be able to adapt quickly enough and/or in a cost-effective manner to changes in industry standards and customer requirements and preferences, and their failure to do so could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the continued 11 Table of Contents widespread adoption of new Internet or telecommunications technologies and devices or other technological changes could require the Company's businesses to modify or adapt their respective services or infrastructures. The failure of the Company's businesses to modify or adapt their respective services or infrastructures in response to these trends could render their existing websites, services and proprietary technologies obsolete, which could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the Company is currently in the process of migrating its international brands and businesses to the Ticketmaster System in an attempt to provide consistent and state-of-the-art services across its businesses and to reduce the cost and expense of maintaining multiple systems, which the Company may not be able to complete in a timely or cost-effective manner. Delays or difficulties in implementing the Ticketmaster System, as well as any new or enhanced systems, may limit the Company's ability to achieve the desired results in a timely manner. Also, the Company may be unable to devote financial resources to new technologies and systems in the future, which could adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. Compliance with Laws, Rules and Regulations—The Company's failure to comply with existing laws, rules and regulations as well as changing laws, rules and regulations and other legal uncertainties, could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Since the Company's businesses sell tickets and provide related services to consumers through a number of different online and offline channels, they are subject to a wide variety of statutes, rules, regulations, policies and procedures in various jurisdictions in the United States and abroad, which are subject to change at any time. For example, the Company's businesses conduct marketing activities via the telephone and/or through online marketing channels, which activities are governed by numerous federal and state regulations, such as the Telemarketing Sales Rule, state telemarketing laws and the CAN-SPAM Act, among others. The Company's businesses are also subject to laws, rules and regulations applicable to providers of primary ticketing and ticket resale services, which in some cases regulate the amount of transaction and other fees that they may be charged in connection with primary ticketing sales and/or the ticket prices that may be charged in the case of ticket resale services. New legislation of this nature is introduced from time to time in various (and is pending in certain) jurisdictions in which the Company's businesses sell tickets and provide services. For example, several U.S. states and cities, Canadian provinces, the United Kingdom and certain European countries prohibit the resale of tickets at prices greater than the original face price (in the case of certain jurisdictions, without the consent of the venue) and/or prohibit the resale of tickets to certain types of events. The Company's various businesses have recently been named as defendants in several purported class action lawsuits and other actions and investigations alleging violations of these types of laws. The failure of the Company's businesses to comply with these laws and regulations could result in fines and/or proceedings against the Company by governmental agencies and/or consumers, which if material, could adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the promulgation of new laws, rules and regulations that restrict or otherwise unfavorably impact the ability or manner in which the Company's businesses provide primary ticketing and ticket resale services would require the Company's businesses to change certain aspects of their business, operations and client relationships to ensure compliance, which could decrease demand for services, reduce revenues, increase costs and/or subject the Company to additional liabilities. In addition, the application of various domestic and international sales, use, value-added and other tax laws, rules and regulations to the Company's historical and new products and services is subject to interpretation by applicable taxing authorities. While the Company believes that it is compliant with current tax provisions, taxing authorities may take a contrary position and such positions may adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents From time to time, federal, state and local authorities and/or consumers commence investigations, inquiries or litigation with respect to compliance by the Company and its businesses with applicable consumer protection, advertising, unfair business practice, antitrust (and similar or related laws) and other laws. The Company's businesses have historically cooperated with authorities in connection with these investigations and have satisfactorily resolved each such material investigation, inquiry or litigation. The Company and its TicketsNow business are currently subject to agreements with the States of New Jersey and Illinois and the United States Federal Trade Commission which govern, and in certain cases place limitations on, the Company's ticketing resale practices. The Company's competitors in the secondary ticket sales market are not, to the Company's knowledge, bound by such limitations and as a result, the Company may be at a competitive disadvantage. Other states and Canadian provinces have commenced investigations or inquiries regarding the relationship between the Company and TicketsNow. The Company has incurred significant legal expenses in connection with the defense of governmental investigations and litigation in the past and will be required to incur additional expenses in the future regarding such investigations and litigation. In the case of antitrust (and similar or related) matters, any adverse outcome could limit or prevent the Company's businesses from engaging in the ticketing business generally (or in a particular market thereof) or subject them to potential damage assessments, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. See Part I, Item 3 "Legal Proceedings" of this report for a description of certain current legal proceedings involving the Company. Maintenance of Systems and Infrastructure—The Company's success depends, in part, on the integrity of the Company's systems and infrastructures. System interruption and the lack of integration and redundancy in these systems and infrastructures may have an adverse impact on the Company's business, financial conditions and results of operations. The Company's success depends, in part, on the Company's ability to maintain the integrity of the Company's systems and infrastructure, including websites, information and related systems, call centers and distribution and fulfillment facilities. System interruption and the lack of integration and redundancy in the Company's information systems and infrastructures may adversely affect the Company's ability to operate websites, process and fulfill transactions, respond to customer inquiries and generally maintain cost-efficient operations. The Company may experience occasional system interruptions that make some or all systems or data unavailable or prevent its businesses from efficiently providing services or fulfilling orders. The Company lacks documentation regarding certain components of its key ticketing software and systems operations and relies on certain key technology personnel to maintain such software and systems; the loss of some or all of such personnel could require the Company to expend additional resources to continue to maintain such software and systems and could subject the Company to frequent systems interruptions. The Company also relies on affiliate and third-party computer systems, broadband and other communications systems and service providers in connection with the provision of services generally, as well as to facilitate, process and fulfill transactions. Any interruptions, outages or delays in its systems and infrastructures, its businesses, its affiliates and/or third parties, or deterioration in the performance of these systems and infrastructures, could impair the ability of the Company's businesses to provide services, fulfill orders and/or process transactions. Fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, acts of war or terrorism, acts of God and similar events or disruptions may damage or interrupt computer, broadband or other communications systems and infrastructures at any time. Any of these events could cause system interruption, delays and loss of critical data, and could prevent the Company's businesses from providing services, fulfilling orders and/or processing transactions. While the Company's businesses have backup systems for certain aspects of their operations, disaster recovery planning by its nature cannot be sufficient for all eventualities. In addition, the Company may not have adequate insurance coverage to compensate for losses from a major interruption. If any of these 13 Table of Contents adverse events were to occur, it could adversely affect the Company's business, financial conditions and results of operations. In addition, any penetration of network security or other misappropriation or misuse of personal consumer information could cause interruptions in the operations of the Company's businesses and subject the Company to increased costs, litigation and other liabilities. Network security issues could lead to claims against the Company for other misuse of personal information, such as for unauthorized purposes or identity theft, which could result in litigation and financial liabilities, as well as administrative action from governmental authorities. Security breaches could also significantly damage the Company's reputation with consumers and third parties with whom the Company does business. It is possible that advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries, undetected fraud, inadvertent violations of company policies or procedures or other developments could result in a compromise of information or a breach of the technology and security processes that are used to protect consumer transaction data. As a result, current security measures may not prevent any or all security breaches. The Company may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against and remedy any potential or existing security breaches and their consequences. The Company also faces risks associated with security breaches affecting third parties with which it is affiliated or otherwise conducts business online. Consumers are generally concerned with security and privacy of the Internet, and any publicized security problems affecting the Company's businesses and/or those of third parties may discourage consumers from doing business with the Company, which could have an adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Privacy—The processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal data could give rise to liabilities as a result of governmental regulation, conflicting legal requirements or differing views of personal privacy rights. In the processing of consumer transactions, the Company's businesses receive, transmit and store a large volume of personally identifiable information and other user data. The sharing, use, disclosure and protection of this information are governed by the privacy and data security policies maintained by the Company and its businesses. Moreover, there are federal, state and international laws regarding privacy and the storing, sharing, use, disclosure and protection of personally identifiable information and user data. Specifically, personally identifiable information is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world, the intent of which is to protect the privacy of personal information that is collected, processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction. The Company could be adversely affected if legislation or regulations are expanded to require changes in business practices or privacy policies, or if governing jurisdictions interpret or implement their legislation or regulations in ways that negatively affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company's businesses may also become exposed to potential liabilities as a result of differing views on the privacy of consumer and other user data collected by these businesses. The Company's failure, and/or the failure by the various third party vendors and service providers with which the Company does business, to comply with applicable privacy policies or federal, state or similar international laws and regulations or any compromise of security that results in the unauthorized release of personally identifiable information or other user data could damage the reputation of these businesses, discourage potential users from trying the Company's products and services and/or result in fines and/or proceedings by governmental agencies and/or consumers, one or all of which could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Intellectual Property—The Company may fail to adequately protect its intellectual property rights or may be accused of infringing intellectual property rights of third parties. The Company may fail to adequately protect its intellectual property rights or may be accused of infringing intellectual property rights of third parties. The Company regards its intellectual property rights, including patents, service marks, trademarks and domain names, copyrights, trade secrets and similar intellectual property (as applicable) as critical to its success. The Company's businesses also rely heavily upon software codes, informational databases and other components that make up their products and services. The Company relies on a combination of laws and contractual restrictions with employees, customers, suppliers, affiliates and others to establish and protect these proprietary rights. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use trade secret or copyrighted intellectual property without authorization which, if discovered, might require legal action to correct. In addition, third parties may independently and lawfully develop substantially similar intellectual properties. The Company has generally registered and continues to apply to register, or secure by contract when appropriate, its trademarks and service marks as they are developed and used, and reserves and registers domain names as it deems appropriate. The Company generally considers the protection of its trademarks to be important for purposes of brand maintenance and reputation. While the Company vigorously protects its trademarks, service marks and domain names, effective trademark protection may not be available or may not be sought in every country in which products and services are made available, and contractual disputes may affect the use of marks governed by private contract. Similarly, not every variation of a domain name may be available or be registered, even if available. The failure of the Company to protect its intellectual property rights in a meaningful manner or challenges to related contractual rights could result in erosion of brand names and limit its ability to control marketing on or through the Internet using its various domain names or otherwise, which could adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of the Company's businesses have been granted patents and/or have patent applications pending with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and/or various foreign patent authorities for various proprietary technologies and other inventions. The Company considers applying for patents or for other appropriate statutory protection when it develops valuable new or improved proprietary technologies or identifies inventions, and will continue to consider the appropriateness of filing for patents to protect future proprietary technologies and inventions as circumstances may warrant. The status of any patent involves complex legal and factual questions, and the breadth of claims allowed is uncertain. Accordingly, any patent application filed may not result in a patent being issued or existing or future patents may not be adjudicated valid by a court or be afforded adequate protection against competitors with similar technology. In addition, third parties may create new products or methods that achieve similar results without infringing upon patents that the Company owns. Likewise, the issuance of a patent to the Company does not mean that its processes or inventions will not be found to infringe upon patents or other rights previously issued to third parties. From time to time, the Company is subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of business, including claims of alleged infringement of the trademarks, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property rights of third parties. In addition, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce the Company's intellectual property rights, protect trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights claimed by others. Any litigation of this nature, regardless of outcome or merit, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and technical resources, any of which could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Patent litigation tends to be particularly protracted and expensive. 15 Table of Contents Key Employees—Failure to attract and retain key employees could adversely impact the Company's business. In order to be successful, the Company must attract and retain talented executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, sales, marketing and support positions. The Company's businesses require individuals with relevant experience and diverse skill sets, and the market for these personnel is highly competitive. The failure to attract employees with the requisite skills and abilities to the Company, or the loss of key employees could adversely impact the Company's ability to meet key objectives, such as the timely and effective development and delivery of products and services, and could otherwise have a significant impact on the Company's operations. Brand Recognition—Failure to maintain brand recognition and attract and retain customers in a cost-effective manner could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Maintaining and promoting the Ticketmaster and www.ticketmaster.com (and related international) brand names and, to a lesser extent, the www.ticketsnow.com, www.ticketweb.com, www.museumtix.com and www.tmvista.com (and related international) brand names, is critical to the ability of the Company's businesses to attract consumers and business customers to their respective websites and other distribution channels. The Company believes that the importance of brand recognition will increase, given the growing number of online ticketing services due to relatively low barriers to entry to providing online content and services. Accordingly, the Company has spent, and expects to continue to spend, increasing amounts of money on, and devote greater resources to, branding and other marketing initiatives, including search engine optimization techniques and paid search engine marketing, neither of which may be successful or cost-effective. The failure of the Company's businesses to maintain the recognition of their respective brands and to attract and retain consumers in a cost-effective manner could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Acquisitions—The Company may experience operational and financial risks in connection with acquisitions. In addition, some of the businesses acquired by the Company may incur significant losses from operations or experience impairment of carrying value. The Company's growth may depend upon future acquisitions and depends, in part, on the Company's ability to successfully integrate historical acquisitions. The Company may experience operational and financial risks in connection with acquisitions. To the extent that the Company continues to grow through acquisitions, it will need to: •successfully integrate the operations, as well as the accounting, financial controls, management information, technology, human resources and other administrative systems, of acquired businesses with existing operations and systems; •retain the clients of the acquired businesses; •retain and integrate key personnel at acquired businesses; and •successfully manage acquisition-related resource demands on its management, operations and financial resources and/or those of acquired businesses. The Company may not be successful in addressing these challenges or any others encountered in connection with recent and future acquisitions and the failure to do so could adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. The anticipated benefits of one or more acquisitions may not be realized and future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities and/or contingent liabilities. Also, the value of goodwill and other intangible assets acquired could be impacted by one or more unfavorable events or trends, which could result in impairment charges. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the Company may choose to substantially reduce or discontinue the operations of any of its acquired businesses if it is unsuccessful 16 Table of Contents in meeting these challenges. Any such shut-down could expose the Company to expenses associated with exiting from existing contracts and terminating employees, and could expose the Company to certain unknown liabilities that arise following the shut-down. Through certain acquisitions, such as the acquisitions of TicketsNow, Emma Entertainment, Echo, GET ME IN! and Front Line, the Company entered into aspects, and through future acquisitions may enter into aspects, of the ticketing and/or entertainment industries in which it had not previously participated directly. Acquisitions of this nature could adversely affect relationships with new and potential clients to the extent that clients view the interests of acquired businesses, or those of the Company overall following the completion of any such acquisitions, as competing with or diverging from their own, which could adversely impact the Company's relationships with its clients and its ability to attract new clients. This would adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Future Capital Needs—The Company may have future capital needs and may not be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms. In connection with the Company's spin-off from IAC, the Company incurred indebtedness of approximately $765.0 million. The Company has since paid down $23.0 million of its indebtedness, while also drawing down an additional $70.0 million from its revolving credit facility. The Company's future capital needs may include funds necessary to develop new services or to enhance its existing services, to complete acquisitions or to otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. These arrangements and current market conditions may limit the Company's ability to secure additional financing in the future on favorable terms or at all. The Company's ability to secure additional financing and satisfy the Company's financial obligations under indebtedness outstanding from time to time will depend upon the Company's future operating performance, which is subject to then prevailing general economic and credit market conditions, including interest rate levels and the availability of credit generally, and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond the Company's control. The prolonged continuation or worsening of current credit market conditions would have a material adverse effect on the Company's ability to secure financing on favorable terms, if at all. The Company may be unable to secure additional financing or financing on favorable terms or its operating cash flow may be insufficient to satisfy its financial obligations under indebtedness outstanding from time to time (if any). Furthermore, if financing is not available when needed, or is available on unfavorable terms, the Company may be unable to develop new services or enhance its existing services, complete acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity securities, the Company's stockholders may experience significant dilution. Goodwill Impairment—Impairment of the Company's goodwill could negatively affect the Company's financial results and financial condition. In accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP"), the Company tests goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the assets might be impaired. If the carrying amount of the Company's goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, an impairment loss equal to the excess is recorded. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company recognized a total non-cash charge of $1.1 billion related to the impairment of goodwill of its ticketing reporting unit. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had goodwill of approximately $482.3 million, which constituted approximately 27% of its total assets at that date. Due to the volatile stock market, the current economic uncertainty and 17 Table of Contents other factors, the Company cannot provide assurance that remaining goodwill will not be further impaired in future periods. Impairment may result from, among other things, a significant decline in its expected cash flows, an adverse change in the business climate and slower growth rates in its industry. If the Company is required to record an impairment charge for its goodwill in the future, this would adversely impact its financial condition and financial results. RISKS RELATING TO OUR SPIN-OFF FROM IAC If our spin-off from IAC, or one or more of the spin-offs of three other IAC subsidiaries from IAC that occurred on the same date, were to fail to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the Company may be subject to significant tax liabilities. In connection with IAC's spin-off of each of the Company and certain other former businesses of IAC, each of which is referred to as a Spinco, IAC received a private letter ruling from the IRS regarding the qualification of these spin-offs as transactions that are generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes. IAC's spin-off of each of the Spincos is referred to collectively as the IAC spin-offs. IAC also received an opinion of counsel regarding certain aspects of the transaction that were not covered by the private letter ruling. Notwithstanding the IRS private letter ruling and opinion of counsel, the IRS could determine that one or more of the IAC spin-offs should be treated as a taxable distribution if it determines that any of the representations, statements or assumptions or undertakings that were included in the request for the IRS private letter ruling are false or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion of counsel that are not covered by the IRS ruling. In addition, if any of the representations, statements or assumptions upon which the opinion of counsel was based were or become inaccurate, the opinion may be invalid. If any of the IAC spin-offs were to fail to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, then IAC would incur material income tax liabilities for which the Company could be liable. Under applicable federal income tax rules, the Company is severally liable for any federal income taxes imposed on IAC with respect to taxable periods during which the Company was a member of IAC's consolidated federal income tax return group, including the period in which the IAC spin-offs were consummated. Under the Tax Sharing Agreement that the Company entered into with IAC and the other Spincos, the Company generally is required to indemnify IAC and the other Spincos for any taxes resulting from the Company's spin-off to the extent such amounts resulted from (i) any act or failure to act by the Company described in the covenants in the Tax Sharing Agreement, (ii) any acquisition of equity securities or assets of the Company or (iii) any breach by the Company of any representation or covenant contained in the separation documents or in the documents relating to the IRS private letter ruling and/or tax opinions. Corresponding indemnification provisions also apply to the other Spincos. The Company is entitled to indemnification from IAC, among other things, if, the Company is liable for, or otherwise required to make a payment in respect of, a the Company spin-off tax liability for which the Company is not responsible under the Tax Sharing Agreement and, if applicable, is unable to collect from the Spinco responsible for such liability under the Tax Sharing Agreement. The Company's ability to collect under these indemnity provisions would depend on the financial position of the indemnifying party. Certain transactions in IAC, the Company, or other Spinco equity securities could cause one or more of the IAC spin-offs to be taxable to IAC and may give rise to indemnification obligations of the Company under the Tax Sharing Agreement. Current U.S. federal income tax law creates a presumption that any of the IAC spin-offs would be taxable to IAC if it is part of a "plan or series of related transactions" pursuant to which one or more persons acquire directly or indirectly stock representing a 50% or greater interest (by vote or value) in IAC or a Spinco (including the Company). Acquisitions that occur during the four-year period that begins two years before the date of a spin-off are presumed to occur pursuant to a plan or series of 18 Table of Contents related transactions, unless it is established that the acquisition is not pursuant to a plan or series of transactions that includes the spin-off. These rules limit the Company's ability during the two-year period following the Company's spin-off to enter into certain transactions that might be advantageous to the Company and its stockholders, particularly issuing equity securities to satisfy financing needs, repurchasing equity securities, and, under certain circumstances, acquiring businesses or assets with equity securities or agreeing to be acquired. Under the Tax Sharing Agreement, there are restrictions on the Company's ability to take such actions for a period of 25 months from the day after the date of the Company's spin-off. Entering into the merger agreement with Live Nation did not violate these restrictions because, prior to entering into the agreement, the Company provided IAC with an unqualified opinion of tax counsel contemplated by the Tax Sharing Agreement and IAC confirmed that the opinion was satisfactory to IAC. In addition to actions of IAC and the Spincos (including the Company), certain transactions that are outside their control and therefore not subject to the restrictive covenants contained in the Tax Sharing Agreement, such as a sale or disposition of the stock of IAC or the stock of a Spinco by certain persons that own five percent or more of any class of stock of IAC or a Spinco could have a similar effect on the tax-free status of a spin-off as transactions to which IAC or a Spinco is a party. As of the date of the Company's spin-off, Liberty Media and certain of its affiliates, in the aggregate, owned IAC stock representing approximately 61.6% by vote and 29.9% by value and, immediately subsequent to the Company's spin-off, owned stock of each Spinco representing approximately 29.9% by vote and value. Accordingly, in evaluating the Company's ability to engage in certain transactions involving its equity securities, the Company will need to take into account the activities of Liberty Media and its affiliates. As a result of these rules, even if each IAC spin-off otherwise qualifies as a transaction that is generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, transactions involving Spinco or IAC equity securities (including transactions by certain significant stockholders) could cause IAC to recognize taxable gain with respect to the stock of the Spinco as described above. Although the restrictive covenants and indemnification provisions contained in the Tax Sharing Agreement are intended to minimize the likelihood that such an event will occur, one or more of the IAC spin-offs may become taxable to IAC as a result of transactions in IAC or Spinco equity securities. As discussed previously, the Company could be liable for such taxes under the Tax Sharing Agreement or under applicable federal income tax rules. In connection with the merger with Live Nation, the Company received (i) two unqualified opinions of tax counsel (one dated as of the date of execution of the definitive merger agreement and one dated as of the closing date of the merger) that the transaction as contemplated in the definitive merger agreement will not have an adverse tax effect on the Company's spin-off, and (ii) IAC's written acknowledgement that the closing date opinion was in form and substance satisfactory to IAC. However, the IRS may disagree with the conclusions in these opinions of counsel and determine that the merger caused the Company's spin-off to be taxable to IAC. Were this to occur and that position were sustained, the Company would be required to make material indemnification payments to IAC. The spin-off agreements were not the result of arm's length negotiations. The agreements that the Company entered into with IAC and the other Spincos in connection with the spin-offs, including the Separation and Distribution Agreement, Tax Sharing Agreement, Employee Matters Agreement and Transition Services Agreement, were established by IAC, in consultation with the Spincos, with the intention of maximizing the value to current IAC's shareholders. Accordingly, the terms for the Company may not be as favorable as would have resulted from negotiations among unrelated third parties. 19 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 