ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In analyzing our Company, you should consider carefully the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Factors that could cause or contribute to differences in our actual results include those discussed in the following subsection, as well as those discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Each of the following risk factors, either alone or taken together, could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our Company. General and Economic Risks Related to the Operations of the Company We have historically had severe working capital shortages, even following significant financing transactions. Although we have raised capital totaling approximately $23,250,000 in gross proceeds since August 2005, we have had working capital shortages in the past. Our consolidated financial statements for the period ended December 31, 2012, indicate that we have a working capital deficit of $163,833. Based on the amount of capital we have remaining, we anticipate that we may have working capital shortages in the future unless we are able to substantially increase our revenue and reduce our expenses, thereby generating continuous positive cash flow from operations and, ultimately, operating income. We are unable to predict whether we will be successful in our efforts to generate continuous positive cash flow or maintain profitability. If we are not successful, we may not be able to continue as a going concern. We may need to raise additional capital on terms unfavorable to our stockholders. Based on our current level of operations, we believe that our cash flow from operations will be adequate to meet our anticipated operating, capital expenditure and debt service requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, we do not have complete control over our future performance because it is subject to economic, political, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors affecting the industries in which we operate. Further, our acquisition strategy will likely require additional equity or debt financings, which may or may not be on favorable terms. Such financings could also be required to support our recently acquired operating units. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain such financings to fuel our growth strategy and support our newly acquired businesses. We have raised capital and issued securities since the commencement of our operations, which has resulted in dilution (and will result in future dilution upon future stock conversions) to our existing stockholders. We will likely issue more securities to raise additional capital or to obtain other services or assets, which may result in further substantial dilution to our existing stockholders. Since August 2005, we have raised gross proceeds in the amount of approximately $23,250,000 to finance our business operations and acquisitions. We have raised this capital by issuing convertible debentures, shares of common stock and convertible preferred stock to investors. In many cases, these issuances were below the then-current market prices and can be considered dilutive to our existing stockholders. In addition, our Series J Convertible Preferred Stock (the “Series J Stock”), has significant restrictions and penalties on our ability to raise any additional capital. If we raise additional working capital, we will have to issue additional equity at prices that will dilute the interests of our existing stockholders, unless the holders of such Series J Stock agree to amend or waive such rights. 15 Table of Contents Our outstanding Series J Stock and common stock options may make it difficult for us to obtain additional capital on reasonable terms. As of December 31, 2012, we had Series J Stock outstanding that is convertible into approximately 8,513,549 shares of common stock. If all of the outstanding Series J Stock were to be converted, they would represent approximately 79% of our outstanding common stock on a fully diluted basis. Future investors will likely recognize that the holders of the Series J Stock will only convert their shares to acquire our common stock when it is to their economic advantage to do so. Therefore, even with lower current market prices for our common stock, the market overhang of such a large number of convertible preferred stock may adversely impact our ability to obtain additional capital because any new investors will perceive that the securities offer a risk of substantial potential future dilution. We are a holding company and depend on distributions from our subsidiaries for cash. We are a holding company with no substantial operations of our own. Our principal assets are investments in our operating subsidiaries. Our ability to pay dividends, interest on our outstanding debt or our other obligations is dependent on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions or payments to us. If our operating subsidiaries are not able to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to meet our financial obligations. In addition, our title insurance subsidiary, Timios, and our subsidiary, Timios Escrow, Inc., must comply with state laws which require them to maintain minimum amounts of working capital, surplus and reserves, and place restrictions on the amount of dividends that they can distribute to us. Compliance with these laws will limit the amounts that subsidiaries can dividend to us. We have a limited operating history, especially in the real estate services industry, which makes it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects and may cause our revenues to decline. We used to consolidate companies in the homeland security business sector and we now consolidate companies in the real estate service business sector. Until our acquisition of NTG (formerly known as Nexus) in 2006, our joint venture with Polimaster in 2006 and our acquisition of Safety in March 2008, we had not generated any revenues since 2002, other than interest income on our cash. In addition, we have exited the homeland security industry and, over the course of the last six quarters, have entered into the real estate services industry through our acquisition of Timios and Default and our startup of TAM. Our ability to generate revenues and earnings (if any) will be directly dependent upon the operating results of such businesses and any additional acquisitions, and the successful integration and consolidation of those businesses. No assurances can be given that we will be successful in generating revenues and earnings based on our business model. Our common stock is vulnerable to pricing and purchasing actions that are beyond our control and, therefore, persons acquiring or holding our shares may be unable to resell their shares at a profit as a result of this volatility. The trading price of our securities has been subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarter-to-quarter variations in our operating results, our announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, delays in our product development and marketing, and other events and factors over which we have no influence or control. The securities markets themselves have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. In addition, the realization of any of the risks described in these “Risk Factors” could have a significant and adverse impact on such market prices. If persons engage in short sales of our common stock, the price of our common stock may decline. Selling short is a technique used by a stockholder to take advantage of an anticipated decline in the price of a security. In addition, holders of options and warrants will sometimes sell short knowing they can, in effect, cover through the exercise of an option or warrant, thus locking in a profit. A significant number of short sales or a large volume of other sales within a relatively short period of time can create downward pressure on the market price of a 16 Table of Contents security. You could, therefore, experience a decline in the value of your investment as a result of short sales of our common stock. Capital markets are currently experiencing a period of disruption and instability, which has had and could continue to have a negative impact on the availability and cost of capital. The general disruption in the United States capital markets has impacted the broader worldwide financial and credit markets and reduced the availability of debt and equity capital for the market as a whole. These global conditions could persist for a prolonged period of time or worsen in the future. Our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to access those markets, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. The resulting lack of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial sector, increased volatility in the financial markets could materially and adversely affect the cost of debt financing and the proceeds of equity financing may be materially adversely impacted by these market conditions. The current economic conditions and financial market turmoil could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Economic conditions remain difficult with the continuing uncertainty in the global credit markets, the European Union, the financial services industry and the United States capital markets and with the United States economy as a whole experiencing a period of substantial turmoil and uncertainty characterized by unprecedented intervention by the United States federal government and the failure, bankruptcy, or sale of various financial and other institutions. We believe the current economic conditions and financial market turmoil could adversely affect our operations, business and prospects, as well as our ability to obtain funds. If these circumstances persist or continue to worsen, our future operating results could be adversely affected, particularly relative to our current expectations. Failure to achieve and maintain internal controls in accordance with Sections 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could have a material adverse effect on our business. We reported in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that we did not have any material weaknesses for the period ended December 31, 2012, with respect to our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain our internal controls or fail to implement required new or improved controls, as such control standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important in the prevention of financial fraud. If we cannot produce reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, and there could be a material adverse effect on our business. We are dependent upon key personnel who would be difficult to replace and whose loss could significantly impede our development. The Company believes that its success depends principally upon the experience of C. Thomas McMillen, its Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, Michael T. Brigante, its Chief Financial Officer and Trevor Stoffer, its Chief Operating Officer, as well as the senior management and directors of its operating subsidiaries. Although Messrs. McMillen, Brigante and Stoffer have substantial experience in acquiring and consolidating businesses, our acquired companies’ personnel do not have significant experience in managing companies formed for the specific purpose of consolidating one or more companies. Additionally, Messrs. McMillen and Brigante do not have experience in managing companies in the real estate service industries. As a result, the Company likely will rely significantly on the senior management of the businesses it acquires. Such acquired senior management may not be suitable to the Company’s business model or combined operations. If the Company loses the services of one or more of its current executives, the Company’s business could be adversely affected. The Company may not successfully recruit additional personnel and any additional personnel who are recruited may not have the requisite skills, knowledge or experience necessary or desirable to enhance the incumbent management. Further, although we have employment agreements with Messrs. McMillen, Brigante and Stoffer, there can be no assurance that the entire 17 Table of Contents term of their employment agreements will be served or that the employment agreements will be renewed upon expiration. Because our operating results may fluctuate significantly and may be below the expectations of analysts and investors, the market price for our stock may be volatile. Our operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly in the future. As a result, our stock price may be volatile. The following factors, among others, many of which are outside our control, can cause fluctuations in our operating results and volatility in our stock price: · expenses incurred in pursuing and closing acquisitions and in follow-up integration efforts; · changes in customers’ budgets and procurement policies and priorities; · new competitors and the introduction of enhanced products from new or existing competitors; · unforeseen legal expenses, including litigation; and · unanticipated delays or problems in releasing new products and services. Additionally, we base our current and future expense levels on our internal operating plans and sales forecasts, and our operating costs are to a large extent fixed. As a result, we may not be able to sufficiently reduce our costs to compensate for an unexpected near-term shortfall in revenues, with such shortfalls resulting in fluctuations in our operating results which could cause our stock price to decline. Our common stock is deemed to be “penny stock,” which may make it more difficult for investors to sell their shares due to suitability requirements. Our common stock is deemed to be “penny stock” as that term is defined in Rule 3a51-1 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Penny stocks are stock: · with a price of less than $5.00 per share; · that are not traded on a “recognized” national exchange; · whose price is not quoted on the NASDAQ automated quotation system (NASDAQ-listed stock must still have a price of not less than $5.00 per share); or · stock in issuers with net tangible assets less than $2,000,000 (if the issuer has been in continuous operation for at least three years) or $5,000,000 (if in continuous operation for less than three years), or with average revenues of less than $6,000,000 for the last three years. In addition to the “penny stock” rules promulgated by the Commission, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc., or FINRA, has adopted rules that require that in recommending an investment to a customer, a broker-dealer must have reasonable grounds for believing that the investment is suitable for that customer. Prior to recommending speculative low priced securities to their non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customer’s financial status, tax status, investment objectives and other information. Under interpretations of these rules, FINRA believes that there is a high probability that speculative low priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. FINRA requirements make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy our common stock, which may limit your ability to buy and sell our stock. Stockholders should be aware that, according to the SEC, the market for penny stocks has suffered in recent years from patterns of fraud and abuse. Such patterns include (i) control of the market for the security by one or a few broker-dealers that are often related to the promoter or issuer; (ii) manipulation of prices through prearranged 18 Table of Contents matching of purchases and sales and false and misleading press releases; (iii) “boiler room” practices involving high-pressure sales tactics and unrealistic price projections by inexperienced sales persons; (iv) excessive and undisclosed bid-ask differentials and markups by selling broker-dealers; and (v) the wholesale dumping of the same securities by promoters and broker-dealers after prices have been manipulated to a desired degree. The Company’s management is aware of the abuses that have occurred historically in the penny stock market. Although the Company does not expect to be in a position to dictate the behavior of the market or of broker-dealers who participate in the market, management will strive within the confines of practical limitations to prevent the described patterns from being established with respect to our securities. We do not expect to pay dividends with respect to our common stock, which may hinder our ability to attract additional capital. The Company has not paid any dividends on its common stock to date. The terms of our outstanding Series J Stock restrict our ability to pay dividends. Assuming we were permitted to pay dividends, the payment of any dividends is within the discretion of the Company’s Board of Directors. The Board of Directors expects to retain all earnings, if any, for use in the Company’s business operations and, accordingly, the Board of Directors does not anticipate declaring any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Appropriate acquisitions may not be available, which may adversely affect our growth. The results of the Company’s planned operations are dependent upon the Company’s ability to identify, attract and acquire additional desirable acquisition candidates, which may take considerable time. Our acquisition strategy is important to the success of our business because it supports our strategy of selling a broad platform of integrated offerings to customers who we believe prefer to buy multiple products and service offerings from fewer vendors. The Company may not be successful in identifying, attracting or acquiring additional acquisition candidates, in integrating such candidates into the Company or in realizing profits from any of its acquired companies. Other companies also pursue acquisitions of companies in the real estate service marketplace and we expect competition for acquisition candidates in our industry to increase, which may mean fewer suitable acquisition opportunities for us, as well as higher acquisition prices. In addition, even if we are successful in acquiring target companies, we may have difficulty integrating the acquired companies’ product and service offerings with our existing offerings and sales channels, which would reduce the benefits to us of the acquisitions and limit the effectiveness of our strategy. The failure to complete additional acquisitions or to operate the acquired companies profitably would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Our financial condition could be harmed if businesses we acquire failed to comply with applicable laws or have other undisclosed liabilities. Any business that we acquire may have been subject to many of the same laws and regulations to which our business is subject and possibly to others, including laws and regulations impacting companies that do business with federal, state and local governments. If any business that we acquire has not conducted its business in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we may be held accountable or otherwise suffer adverse consequences, such as significant fines or unexpected termination of contracts. Businesses we acquire may have other undisclosed liabilities we do not discover during the acquisition process that could result in liability to us or other unanticipated problems, such as product liability claims. Unexpected liabilities such as these could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our consolidation strategy is not successful, our operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. One of the Company’s strategies is to increase its revenues, the range of products and services that it offers and the markets that it serves through the acquisition of additional real estate services businesses. Investors have no basis on which to evaluate the possible merits or risks of any future acquisition candidates’ operations and prospects that management may identify. Although management of the Company will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in any particular acquisition candidate, the Company may not properly ascertain all of such risks. Additionally, management of the Company has significant flexibility in identifying and selecting prospective acquisition candidates. Management may not succeed in selecting acquisition candidates that will be profitable or that can be 19 Table of Contents integrated successfully. Although the Company intends to scrutinize closely the management of a prospective acquisition candidate in connection with evaluating the desirability of effecting a business combination, the Company’s assessment of management may not prove to be correct. The Company may enlist the assistance of other persons to assess the management of acquisition candidates. Finally, the Company will seek to improve the profitability and increase the revenues of acquired businesses by various means, including combining administrative functions, eliminating redundant facilities, implementing system and technology improvements, purchasing products and services in large quantities and cross-selling products and services. The Company’s ability to increase revenues will be affected by various factors, including the Company’s ability to expand the products and services offered to the customers of acquired companies, develop national accounts and attract and retain a sufficient number of employees to perform the Company’s services. There can be no assurance that the Company’s internal growth strategies will be successful. Competition and industry consolidation may limit our ability to implement our business strategies. The Company expects to face significant competition to acquire businesses in the real estate services industry from larger companies that currently pursue, or are expected to pursue, acquisitions as part of their growth strategies and as the industry undergoes continuing consolidation. Such competition could lead to higher prices being paid for acquired companies. The Company believes that the real estate services industry will undergo considerable consolidation during the next several years. The Company expects that, in response to such consolidation and in light of the Company’s financial resources, it will consider from time to time additional strategies to enhance stockholder value. These include, among others, strategic alliances and joint ventures; purchase, sale and merger transactions with other large companies; and other similar transactions. In considering any of these strategies, the Company will evaluate the consequences of such strategies, including, among other things, the potential for leverage that would result from such a transaction, the tax effects of the transaction, and the accounting consequences of the transaction. In addition, such strategies could have various other significant consequences, including changes in management, control or operational or acquisition strategies of the Company. There can be no assurance that any one of these strategies will be undertaken, or that, if undertaken, any such strategy will be completed successfully. Failure to qualify for Investment Company Act exemptions could adversely affect our growth and financial condition. The regulatory scope of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or the Investment Company Act, extends generally to companies engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities. The Investment Company Act also may apply to a company which does not intend to be characterized as an investment company but which, nevertheless, engages in activities that bring it within the Investment Company Act’s definition of an investment company. The Company believes that its principal activities, which involve acquiring control of operating companies and providing managerial and consulting services, will not subject the Company to registration and regulation under the Investment Company Act. The Company intends to remain exempt from investment company regulation either by not engaging in investment company activities or by qualifying for the exemption from investment company regulation available to any company that has no more than 45% of its total assets invested in, and no more than 45% of its income derived from, investment securities, as defined in the Investment Company Act. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to avoid registration and regulation as an investment company. In the event the Company is unable to avail itself of an exemption or safe harbor from the Investment Company Act, the Company may become subject to certain restrictions relating to the Company’s activities, as noted below, and contracts entered into by the Company at such time that it was an unregistered investment company may be unenforceable. The Investment Company Act imposes substantial requirements on registered investment companies including limitations on capital structure, restrictions on certain investments, prohibitions on transactions with affiliates and compliance with reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy disclosure and other rules and regulations. Registration as an investment company could have a material adverse effect on the Company. 20 Table of Contents Potential tax consequences of our acquisitions may adversely affect our financial conditions. As a general rule, federal and state tax laws and regulations have a significant impact upon the structuring of business combinations. The Company will evaluate the possible tax consequences of any prospective business combination and will endeavor to structure the business combination so as to achieve the most favorable tax treatment to the Company, the acquisition candidate and their respective stockholders. Nonetheless, the Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, or appropriate state tax authorities may not ultimately agree with the Company’s tax treatment of a consummated business combination. To the extent that the IRS or state tax authorities ultimately prevail in re-characterizing the tax treatment of a business combination, there may be adverse tax consequences to the Company, the acquisition candidate and/or their respective stockholders. Risks Related to the Real Estates Services and Industry If adverse changes in the levels of real estate activity occur, the revenues of our Timios, TAM and DSUSA subsidiaries may decline. Title insurance, asset management and appraisal revenue is closely related to the level of real estate activity, which includes, among other things, sales, mortgage financing and mortgage refinancing. The levels of real estate activity are primarily affected by the average price of real estate sales, the availability of funds to finance purchases and mortgage interest rates. Both the volume and the average price of residential real estate transactions have experienced declines in many parts of the country over the past four years, and these trends appear likely to continue. We have found that residential real estate activity generally decreases in the following situations: · when mortgage interest rates are high or increasing; · when the mortgage funding supply is limited; and · when the United States economy is weak, including high unemployment levels. Declines in the level of real estate activity or the average price of real estate sales are likely to adversely affect our title insurance, asset management and appraisal revenues. In 2011 and continuing into 2012, the continued mortgage delinquency and default rates caused negative operating results at a number of banks and financial institutions and, as a result, continued to suppress the level of lending activity. Our revenues in future periods will continue to be subject to these and other factors which are beyond our control and, as a result, are likely to fluctuate. If financial institutions at which we hold escrow funds fail, it could have a material adverse impact on our company. We hold customers’ assets in escrow at various financial institutions, pending completion of real estate transactions. These assets are maintained in segregated bank accounts. Failure of one or more of these financial institutions may lead us to become liable for the funds owed to third parties and there is no guarantee that we would recover the funds deposited, whether through Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation coverage or otherwise. If our underwriters’ solvency were negatively impacted, our ability to conduct our business would be materially affected. Timios relies on our underwriter’s appointment as an agent to conduct our title business. If our underwriters were to become insolvent or be subject to greater regulatory restrictions, our direct appointment by our underwriters could be jeopardized. Additionally, higher reserve requirements for our underwriters would likely increase our costs and adversely affect our rates, revenues and financial condition. If Timios’ volume or size of claims increases, we may lose our appointment as an agency, resulting in increased costs of conducting business. This would adversely affect our business. 21 Table of Contents Title insurance rate regulation could have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations. Rates for title insurance vary by state and are subject to extensive regulation. The process of implementing a rate change in most states involves pre-approval by the applicable state insurance regulator. This regulation could impact the Company’s ability to adjust prices in the face of rapidly changing market conditions, which could adversely affect results of operations. Because our Timios subsidiary is dependent upon a few states for a substantial portion of our title insurance premiums, our business may be adversely affected by regulatory conditions in those states. In 2012, Texas, Florida, New Jersey and Pennsylvania represented the largest states for revenue generation and accounted for a substantial portion of the premiums earned by our Timios subsidiary. A significant part of our revenues and profitability are therefore subject to our operations in those states and to the prevailing regulatory conditions in such states. Adverse regulatory developments in these states, which could include reductions in the maximum rates permitted to be charged, inadequate rate increases or more fundamental changes in the design or implementation of the title insurance regulatory framework, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The title insurance business is highly competitive. Competition in the title insurance industry is intense, particularly with respect to price, service and expertise. Business comes primarily by referral from real estate agents, lenders, developers and other settlement providers. The sources of business lead to a great deal of competition among title insurers and asset managers. For example, although the top four title insurance companies during 2010 accounted for about approximately 90% of industry-wide premium volume, there are numerous smaller companies representing the remainder at the regional and local levels. The smaller companies are an ever-present competitive risk in the regional and local markets where their business relationships can give them a competitive edge. Although we are not aware of any current initiatives to reduce regulatory barriers to entering our industry, any such reduction could result in new competitors, including financial institutions, entering the title insurance business. From time to time, new entrants enter the marketplace with alternative products to traditional title insurance, although many of these alternative products have been disallowed by title insurance regulators. These alternative products, if permitted by regulators, could adversely affect our revenues and earnings. Competition among the major title insurance and asset management companies and any new entrants could lower our premium and fee revenues, which could adversely affect our business. The property appraisal business is highly competitive. The property appraisal business is highly competitive, with competition based on pricing, reputation and quality of service provided to customers. Our property appraisal business competes with a number of national, regional and local appraisers. Some of the factors that increase our competitive risks are: · our competitors could have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do; · some of our competitors may be subject to less regulations than we are; · some of our competitors may have more technologically advanced software than we do, giving them an advantage over us; · there are relatively few barriers to entry for new appraisal companies and new entrants will result in increased competition; · some competitors may have or develop relationships with potential customers; and · our competitors may try to recruit our senior management and other employees away from us. 22 Table of Contents If we do not match prices or terms offered by our competitors we may lose current customers or future opportunities. If we match the prices of our competitors, we may experience decreased rates of return. We intend to compete on pricing, quality of service and reputation. However, there is a risk that these elements alone will not be sufficient to keep existing business or acquire new business. These failures would adversely affect our revenues and profitability. We may be required to warrant our residential appraisals in the future. We currently do not warrant the accuracy of the value in the residential appraisal reports we deliver to our customers. Large lending institutions often require appraisal management companies to warrant the value delivered in the appraisal report. Because of the highly competitive nature of the residential appraisal industry, we may, in the future, be required to warrant the values in our residential appraisal reports. Such warranties could subject us to continuing liability based on the value of the appraised property. If such warranties are required and our appraisal reports are found to be inadequate, we may be liable for monetary damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We must comply with wide-ranging federal and state regulations. As a title insurance agency, Timios must comply with federal and state regulations. Any new regulations may increase our costs of compliance, which could have a material effect on the results of our operations. Title insurance premiums that we charge are subject to various state insurance departments. If title insurance premiums are lowered in a state where we have a large volume of business our operations could be adversely effected. Additionally, regulatory investigations by state departments of insurance are common. Such investigations may result as part of our annual audits or as a result of customer complaints. These investigations could lead to fines or revocation of our license in a state. Either circumstance could have an adverse effect on our business. Regulatory investigations of the title insurance industry by governmental entities could result in legislation that could adversely impact our results of operations. The title insurance industry is currently being scrutinized by both federal and state governmental agencies as to whether insurance codes of the various jurisdictions and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act and similar state, federal and foreign laws, among others, have been violated by our competitors. To date, the Company has not received any inquiries; however, the results of these inquiries could lead to further regulation which could adversely affect our results of operations. The Company could be adversely affected by the possible reform of government-sponsored enterprises. The federal government is currently in discussions regarding reform of The Federal National Mortgage Association, or Fannie Mae, and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, or Freddie Mac. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac often require the purchase of title insurance for home loans that they securitize. Changes to these entities could impact the entire mortgage loan process and as a result, could impact the demand for title insurance. The timing and results of reform are currently unknown; however, changes to these entities could adversely impact the Company and its results of operations. The Company may experience material losses resulting from fraud, defalcation or misconduct. Fraud, defalcation and other misconduct by the Company’s agents, approved attorneys and employees are risks inherent in the Company’s business. Agents and approved attorneys typically handle large sums of money in trusts pursuant to the closing of real estate transactions. Misappropriation of funds by any of these parties could result in severe title claims. During the early years of the recent economic downturn, the Company experienced abnormally high losses for policies that were issued in 2006 and 2008 due to these factors. Continuation of challenging economic conditions or economic uncertainty could result in further abnormal loss experience from fraud, defalcation and misconduct. 23 Table of Contents We receive, store and transmit sensitive information about our customers. As a settlement service provider to financial institutions we routinely are in possession of non-public personal information (NPPI). The NPPI that we collect is considered sensitive information that if compromised could result in legal actions against us. We are bound by contractual and regulatory limitations on disclosure of the information we receive. Should we fail to adequately protect this data, we could be exposed to legal actions. Such legal action may include governmental proceedings and could result in large fines, which would have a negative financial and reputational effect on our business. Industry regulatory scrutiny and investigations could adversely affect our ability to compete for or retain business or increase our cost of doing business. The title insurance industry has recently been, and continues to be, under regulatory scrutiny in a number of states with respect to pricing practices, and alleged RESPA violations and unlawful rebating practices. The regulatory investigations could lead to industry-wide reductions in premium rates and escrow fees, the inability to get rate increases when necessary, as well as to changes that could adversely affect the Company’s ability to compete for or retain business or raise the costs of additional regulatory compliance. The asset management business is intensely competitive. The asset management business is intensely competitive, with competition based on a variety of factors, including the quality of service provided to clients, brand recognition and business reputation. Our asset management business competes with a number of traditional asset managers including, commercial banks, title companies, investment banks and other financial institutions. A number of factors serve to increase our competitive risks: · a number of our competitors in some of our businesses have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources and more personnel than we do; · some of our property portfolios may not perform as well as competitors’ property portfolios or other available asset management portfolios; · some of our competitors may be subject to less regulation and accordingly may have more flexibility to undertake and execute certain lines of business than we can and/or bear less compliance expense than we do; · some of our competitors may have more flexibility than us in the use of asset management software, giving them a technological advantage over us; · some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances, different risk assessments or lower return thresholds, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of property portfolio mixes and to bid more aggressively than us for these portfolios; · there are relatively few barriers to entry impeding new asset management firms, and the successful efforts of new entrants into our business is expected to continue to result in increased competition; · some of our competitors may have better expertise or be regarded by potential customers as having better expertise in a specific asset class or geographic region than we do; · other industry participants will from time to time seek to recruit our professionals and other employees away from us. We may lose opportunities in the future if we do not match prices, structures and terms offered by competitors. Alternatively, we may experience decreased rates of return and increased risks of loss if we match prices, structures and terms offered by competitors. Moreover, if we are forced to compete with other alternative 24 Table of Contents asset managers on the basis of price, we may not be able to maintain our current fees and profitability. We have historically competed primarily on the performance, and not on the level of our fees relative to those of our competitors. However, there is a risk that fees in the asset management industry will decline, without regard to the historical performance. Fee income reductions on existing or future business, without corresponding decreases in our cost structure, would adversely affect our revenues and profitability. The asset management business is subject to changes in laws and regulations. The asset management industry is subject to changes in applicable laws and regulations. Recently, there have been several regulatory changes in debt settlement, mortgage foreclosure and credit repair that could impact our operations. If we fail to adjust our procedures to meet these changing laws and regulations, our ability to deliver our services may be hindered and could have a material impact to our financial results. In addition, delays in regulatory changes or moratoriums that impact the foreclosure process may delay REO properties from reaching the market and consequently impact the volume of properties managed by us and have an adverse affect on our financial results. Our asset management business was dependent on one contract, which contract has expired. If we are unable to renew this contract, or enter into other contracts with substantially similar terms, our asset management business will be materially and adversely harmed. Until September 30, 2011, we relied on one asset management contract for our asset management business which represented 100% of our total revenue from that subsidiary. We are currently in discussions with several potential customers to provide asset management services. As of December 31, 2012, we have not secured any significant customers or amount of business. The financial projections of our asset management contracts could prove inaccurate. We generally decide to enter into an asset management contract on the basis of financial projections prepared by our management. These projected operating results will normally be based primarily on judgments of the management. In all cases, projections are only estimates of future results that are based upon assumptions made at the time that the projections are developed. General economic conditions, which are not predictable, along with other factors may cause actual performance to fall short of the financial projections that were used to establish a given projection of results. The inaccuracy of financial projections could thus cause our actual performance to fall short of our expectations. We may pursue opportunities that involve business, regulatory, legal or other complexities. We may pursue unusually complex asset management opportunities. This can often take the form of substantial business, regulatory or legal complexity that would deter other asset management companies. Our tolerance for complexity presents risks, as such contracts can be more difficult, expensive and time-consuming to execute; it can be more difficult to manage or realize value from the assets managed in such contracts; and such contracts sometimes entail a higher level of regulatory scrutiny or a greater risk of contingent liabilities. Any of these risks could harm the results of our operations Our business depends upon our ability to keep pace with the latest technological changes, and our failure to do so could make us less competitive in our industry. The market for our products and services is characterized by rapid change, including, but not limited to, technological change, frequent new product innovations, changes in customer requirements and expectations and evolving industry standards. Products using new technologies or emerging industry standards could make our products and services less attractive. Furthermore, our competitors have access to technology not available to us, which enable them to produce products of greater interest to consumers or at a more competitive cost. Failure to respond in a timely and cost-effective way to these technological developments may result in serious harm to our business and operating results. As a result, our success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop and market product and service offerings that respond in a timely manner to the technological advances available to our customers, evolving industry standards and changing preferences. 25 Table of Contents Rapid technological changes in our industry require timely and cost-effective responses. Our earnings may be adversely affected if we are unable to effectively use technology to increase productivity. Technological advances occur rapidly in the title insurance industry as industry standards evolve and title insurers introduce new products and services. We believe that our future success depends on our ability to anticipate technological changes and to offer products and services that meet evolving standards on a timely and cost-effective basis. Successful implementation and customer acceptance of our technology-based services will be crucial to our future profitability. There is a risk that the introduction of new products and services, or advances in technology, could reduce the usefulness of our products and render them obsolete. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 