Item 1A. Risk Factors I. Financial and Telesat Investment Risk Factors Our revenues and profitability may be adversely affected by the sustained global financial downturn, and negative global economic conditions may have a material adverse effect on our customers and suppliers. Since the end of 2007, worldwide economic conditions have deteriorated significantly affecting the global financial markets and have caused significant reductions in available capital and liquidity from banks and other providers of credit, substantial reductions in equity and currency values in financial markets and extreme volatility in credit, equity and fixed income markets and general economic uncertainty. Though markets improved in 2009, continuing adverse global economic conditions may have a material adverse effect on us due to potential insolvency of suppliers and customers, inability of customers to obtain financing for their satellites and transponder leases, decreased or delayed customer demand, delays in supplier performance and contract terminations. Our customers may not have access to capital or a willingness to spend capital on satellites and transponder leases, and/or their levels of cash liquidity with which to pay for satellites and transponder leases may be adversely affected. Further, the economic downturn may adversely affect our suppliers’ access to capital and liquidity with which to maintain their inventories, production levels and/or product quality, could cause them to raise prices or result in their ceasing operations. If global economic conditions remain uncertain or deteriorate further, we may experience a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. These potential effects of the global financial situation are difficult to forecast and mitigate. 13 Table of Contents We have had a history of losses. Although we had net income in 2009, in the past, we have had a history of losses. We incurred net losses of approximately $693 million and $87 million (not including the gain on the contribution of Loral Skynet to Telesat and related derivative gains of $194 million from financial commitments that locked in foreign exchange rates on debt that financed the Telesat transaction in 2007, and the tax effect of $78 million) for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” There can be no assurance that Loral will continue to achieve profitability in the future. The SS/L credit agreement is subject to financial and other covenants that must be met for SS/L to utilize the revolving facility. On October 16, 2008, SS/L entered into a credit agreement with several banks and other financial institutions. The SS/L credit agreement provides for a $100 million senior secured revolving credit facility. The revolver is for a term of three years, maturing on October 16, 2011. This credit agreement contains certain covenants, both financial and non-financial, which SS/L must be able to meet to draw on the revolver. The covenants include, among other things, a consolidated leverage ratio test, a consolidated interest coverage ratio test and restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, capital expenditures, investments, dividends or stock repurchases, asset sales, mergers and consolidations, liens, changes to the line of business and other matters customarily restricted in such agreements. While SS/L has been in compliance with all covenants to date, there can be no assurance that SS/L will be able to meet its covenant requirements in the future and maintain the availability to use the revolver. SS/L’s liquidity would be materially and adversely affected if it is unable to do so. We are projecting negative cash flow for 2010, and there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient funds to meet our cash requirements in the future. Although our projections for 2010 reflect negative cash flows, mainly due to growth in orbital receivables and capital expenditures, we expect to have sufficient funds to meet our cash requirements in 2010. There can be no assurance, however, that we will have sufficient funds to meet our cash requirements in future years beyond 2010. If we do not have sufficient funds, SS/L will be required to borrow under its credit agreement or we will have to obtain new financing, either in the form of debt or equity, to increase our cash availability. In light of current market conditions, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such financing on favorable terms, if at all. If we are not successful in obtaining such financing, our ability to manage unforeseen cash requirements, to meet contingencies and to fund growth opportunities will be materially and adversely affected. Loral Space & Communications Inc., the parent company, is a holding company with no current operations; we are dependent on cash flow from our operating subsidiaries and affiliates to meet our financial obligations. The parent company is a holding company with four primary assets, its equity interest in its wholly-owned subsidiary, SS/L, its equity interests in its affiliates, Telesat and XTAR and its ownership of the Canadian payload on the ViaSat-1 satellite. Other than the Canadian payload on ViaSat-1, the parent company has no independent operations or operating assets and has ongoing cash requirements that as of December 31, 2009 include approximately $40 million of additional expenditures expected to be incurred in 2010 and 2011 to complete the Canadian payload on ViaSat-1 and related gateway infrastructure. The ability of SS/L, Telesat and XTAR to make payments or distributions to the parent company, whether as dividends or as payments under applicable management agreements or otherwise, will depend on their operating results, including their ability to satisfy their own cash flow requirements and obligations including, without limitation, their debt service obligations. Moreover, covenants contained in the debt agreements of SS/L and Telesat impose substantial limitations on their ability to dividend funds to the parent company. Even if the applicable debt covenants would permit Telesat to pay dividends, the parent company will not have the ability to cause Telesat to do so. See below “While we own 64% of Telesat on an economic basis, we own only 331/3% of its voting stock and therefore do not have the right to elect or appoint a majority of its Board of Directors.” Likewise, any dividend payments by XTAR would require the prior consent of our Spanish partner in the joint venture. The parent company earns a management fee of $5 million a year from Telesat. Telesat’s loan documents permit this management fee from Telesat to be paid to the parent company only in the form of notes, with such fee becoming payable in cash only at such time that Telesat meets certain financial performance criteria set forth in the loan documents. We do not expect Telesat to be able to meet these criteria in the next year. 14 Table of Contents SS/L pays the parent company a management fee of $1.5 million in cash each year. The parent company also allocates a portion of its annual overhead expenses to SS/L. The parent company required SS/L to make overhead expense allocation payments to it in 2009. The SS/L credit agreement restricts these overhead expense allocation payments to an amount not to exceed $15 million in any fiscal year and imposes a liquidity restriction that must be met for SS/L to make such payment. The SS/L credit agreement also limits loans by SS/L to the parent company. There can be no assurance that SS/L will be permitted to make expense allocation payments or loans to the parent company in the future. While we own 64% of Telesat on an economic basis, we own only 331/3% of its voting stock and therefore do not have the right to elect or appoint a majority of its Board of Directors. Because of Canadian foreign ownership restrictions, while we own 64% of the economic interests of Telesat, we hold only 331/3% of its voting interests and cannot hold additional voting power in Telesat absent a change in law. Although the government of Canada announced in March 2010 that it is proposing to remove the existing restrictions on foreign ownership of Canadian satellites, legislation to implement the government’s proposal has not yet been introduced, and, if introduced, there is no assurance as to exactly what changes will be proposed, whether in fact such legislation will be adopted and, if adopted, how current laws and regulations governing the foreign ownership and control of satellites may be changed. Even if changes in law and regulations are effected to allow us to own more voting stock of Telesat Holdco than we currently own, we would still be subject to our shareholders agreement with PSP. Under our shareholders agreement, the governance and management of Telesat is vested in its 10-member Board of Directors, comprised of three Loral appointed directors, three PSP appointed directors and four independent directors, two of whom also own Telesat shares with nominal economic value and 30% and 62/3% of the voting interests for Telesat directors, respectively. While we own a greater voting interest in Telesat than any other single stockholder with respect to election of directors and we and PSP, which owns 30% of the voting interests for directors and 662/3% of the voting interests for all other matters, together own a majority of Telesat’s voting power, circumstances may occur where our interests and those of PSP diverge or are in conflict. In that case, PSP, with the agreement of at least three of the four independent directors may, subject to veto rights that we have under Telesat’s shareholders agreement, cause Telesat to take actions contrary to our wishes. These veto rights are, however, limited to certain extraordinary actions — for example, the incurrence of more than $100 million of indebtedness or the purchase of assets at a cost in excess of $100 million. Moreover, our right to block these actions under the shareholders agreement falls away if, subject to certain exceptions, either (i) ownership or control, directly or indirectly by Dr. Mark H. Rachesky (President of MHR Fund Management LLC, or MHR, which, through its affiliated funds is our largest stockholder) of our voting stock falls below certain levels or (ii) there is a change in the composition of a majority of the members of Loral’s board of directors over a consecutive two-year period. Our equity investment in Telesat may be at risk because of Telesat’s leverage. At December 31, 2009, Telesat had outstanding indebtedness of CAD 3.0 billion and additional borrowing capacity of CAD 153 million under its revolving facility, based on a U.S. dollar/Canadian dollar exchange rate of $1.00/CAD 1.0532. Approximately CAD 2.1 billion of this total borrowing capacity is debt that is secured by substantially all of the assets of Telesat. This indebtedness represents a significant amount of indebtedness for a company the size of Telesat. The agreements governing this indebtedness impose operating and financial restrictions on Telesat’s activities. These restrictions on Telesat’s ability to operate its business could seriously harm its business by, among other things, limiting its ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition and other corporate opportunities, which could in time adversely affect the value of our investment in Telesat. As of December 31, 2009, Telesat had indebtedness of $2.1 billion which bears interest at variable rates. If market interest rates were to rise, this would result in higher debt service requirements. To alleviate a portion of this risk, in 2007 Telesat entered into interest rate swaps that converted $600 million of its outstanding floating U.S. dollar debt and CAD 630 million of its outstanding Canadian dollar debt into fixed rate debt for periods extending into 2010 and 2011. In 2009, Telesat extended the maturity of the existing CAD 630 million floating to fixed interest rate swaps to October 2014 and entered into an additional delayed-start floating to fixed CAD 300 million interest rate swap maturing in October 2014. Telesat’s indebtedness includes $1.7 billion that is denominated in U.S. dollars and is unhedged with respect to foreign exchange rates. Unfavorable exchange rate changes could affect Telesat’s ability to repay or refinance this debt. A breach of the covenants contained in any of Telesat’s loan agreements, including without limitation, a failure to maintain the financial ratios required under such agreements, could result in an event of default. If an event of default were to occur, Telesat’s lenders would be able to accelerate repayment of the related indebtedness, and it may also trigger a cross default under other Telesat indebtedness. If Telesat is unable to repay its secured indebtedness when due (whether at the maturity date or upon acceleration as a result of a default), the lenders will have the right to proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such indebtedness, which consists of substantially all of the assets of Telesat and its subsidiaries. Telesat’s ability to make payments on, or repay or refinance, its debt, will depend largely upon its future operating performance. In the event that Telesat is not able to service its indebtedness, there would be a material adverse effect on the value of our equity investment in Telesat. 15 Table of Contents Telesat also has CAD 141 million of 7% (8.5% following a performance failure) senior preferred stock that may be redeemed by the holders thereof commencing October 31, 2019. This preferred stock enjoys rights of priority over the Telesat equity securities held by us. Certain asset sales by Telesat may trigger material adverse tax consequences for us. Upon completion of the Telesat transaction, we deferred a tax gain of approximately $308 million arising from the contribution by Loral Skynet to Telesat of substantially all of its assets and related liabilities. If Telesat were to sell or otherwise dispose of substantially all of such contributed assets in one or more taxable transactions prior to November 1, 2012, we would be required to recognize this deferred gain with retroactive effect to 2007, resulting in additional tax liability to us of approximately $119 million plus interest. Telesat has agreed that prior to November 1, 2012, without our prior consent, it will not dispose of assets having a value, whether individually or in the aggregate, in excess of $50 million if such disposition would, in our reasonable determination, result in an adverse tax consequence to us. If we were to exercise this veto right and prevent Telesat from consummating such an asset sale, it may, however, adversely affect the value of our investment in Telesat. The Telesat information in this report is based solely on information provided to us by Telesat. Because we do not control Telesat, we do not have the same control and certification processes with respect to the information contained in this report on our satellite services segment that we have for the reporting on our satellite manufacturing segment. We are also not involved in managing Telesat’s day to day operations. Accordingly, the Telesat information contained in this report is based solely on information provided to us by Telesat and has not been separately verified by us. Telesat’s financial results and our U.S. dollar reporting of Telesat’s financial results will be affected by volatility in the Canadian/U.S. dollar exchange rate. Portions of Telesat’s revenue, expenses and debt are denominated in U.S. dollars and changes in the U.S. dollar/Canadian dollar exchange rate may have a negative impact on Telesat’s financial results and affect the ability of Telesat to repay or refinance its borrowings. Loral reports its investment in Telesat in U.S. dollars while Telesat reports its financial results in Canadian dollars. Loral reports its investment in Telesat using the equity method of accounting. As a result, Telesat’s results of operations are subject to conversion from Canadian dollars to U.S. dollars. Changes in the U.S. dollar relationship to the Canadian dollar affect how our financial results as they relate to Telesat are reported in our consolidated financial statements. There was a significant movement in US$/CAD exchange rates during 2009; the exchange rate moved from US$1.00/CAD 1.2188 at December 31, 2008 to US$1.00/CAD 1.0532 at December 31, 2009. Our potential indebtedness makes us vulnerable to adverse developments. On October 16, 2008, SS/L entered into a $100 million secured credit agreement that contains financial and non-financial covenants under which SS/L must operate if it is to maintain the availability of the facility. As of December 31, 2009, there were no borrowings under this facility, and there are currently no restrictions on the parent company incurring additional indebtedness. If new debt is added, such indebtedness could impose additional restrictive covenants. The incurrence of the SS/L debt and any additional significant debt that we may incur would make us vulnerable to, among other things, adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions. XTAR has not generated sufficient revenues to meet all of its contractual obligations, which are substantial. XTAR’s take-up rate in its service has been slower than anticipated. As a result, it has deferred certain payments owed to us, Hisdesat and Telesat, including payments due under an agreement with Hisdesat to lease certain transponders on the Spainsat satellite. These lease obligations were $23 million in 2009 with increases thereafter to a maximum of $28 million per year through the end of the useful life of the satellite, which is estimated to be in 2021. In addition, XTAR has entered into an agreement with Hisdesat whereby the past due balance on the Spainsat transponders of $32.3 million as of December 31, 2008, together with a deferral of $6.7 million in payments due in 2009, became payable to Hisdesat over 12 years through annual payments of $5 million. XTAR’s lease and other obligations to Hisdesat, which will aggregate in excess of $376 million over the life of the satellite, are substantial, especially in light of XTAR’s limited revenues to date. XTAR has agreed that most of its excess cash balance would be applied towards making limited payments on these obligations, as well as payments of other amounts owed to us, Hisdesat and Telesat in respect of services provided by them to XTAR. Unless XTAR is able to generate a substantial increase in its revenues, these obligations will continue to accrue and grow, which may have a material and adverse effect on our equity interest in XTAR. As of December 31, 2009, $1.3 million was due to Loral from XTAR. 16 Table of Contents Significant changes in discount rates, actual investment return on pension assets and other factors could affect our statement of operations, equity and pension contributions in future periods. Our statement of operations may be positively or negatively affected by the amount of expense we record for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP) require that we calculate expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. These valuations reflect assumptions that we make relating to financial market and other economic conditions. Changes in key economic indicators may result in changes in the assumptions we use. The most significant year-end assumptions used to estimate pension or other postretirement expense for the following year are the discount rate, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and expected future medical inflation. In addition, we are required to make an annual measurement of plan assets and liabilities and, at the time of the measurement, we may be required to take a significant charge to equity through a reduction to other comprehensive income. For a discussion regarding how our financial statements may be affected by pension and other postretirement plan accounting policies, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Matters — Pensions and other employee benefits.” During 2009, we recorded expense of $21.9 million related to pension and other postretirement benefit plans and made $24.5 million in employer contributions. During 2010, based upon current estimates, we expect to expense approximately $18.9 million related to pension and other postretirement benefit plans and make approximately $28.9 million in employer contributions. Our expense and contributions in the future will depend, among other things, on the key economic factors underlying these assumptions. We expect significant increases in funding requirements subsequent to 2010. While fluctuations in the value of pension assets will increase or decrease annual pension costs, additional asset decreases like those experienced during 2008 could further increase future expenses recognized in our statement of operations and increase, typically over seven years, the requirement for future cash contributions by us. II. Segment Risk Factors • Risk Factors Associated With Satellite Manufacturing The satellite manufacturing market is highly competitive and fixed costs are high. SS/L competes with companies such as Lockheed Martin, Boeing and Orbital Sciences in the United States, Thales Alenia Space and EADS Astrium in Europe and Mitsubishi Electric Corp. in Japan, nearly all of which are larger and better capitalized than we are. SS/L may also face competition in the future from emerging low-cost competitors in India, Russia and China. The number of annual satellite manufacturing awards varies and is difficult to predict. In addition, U.S. satellite manufacturers must comply with U.S. export control and other federal regulations that put them at a disadvantage when competing for foreign customers. Moreover, as a result of our interest in Telesat, SS/L may experience difficulty in obtaining orders from certain customers engaged in the satellite services business who compete with Telesat. Our financial performance is dependent on SS/L’s ability to generate a sustainable order rate and to continue to increase its backlog. The satellite manufacturing industry has suffered from substantial overcapacity worldwide for a number of years, resulting in extreme competitive pressure on pricing and other material contractual terms, such as those allocating risk between the manufacturer and its customers. Buyers, as a result, have had the advantage over suppliers in negotiating prices, terms and conditions resulting in reduced margins and increased assumption of risk by manufacturers such as SS/L. SS/L is a large-scale systems integrator, requiring a large staff of highly-skilled and specialized workers, as well as specialized manufacturing and test facilities in order to perform under its satellite construction contracts. In order to maintain its ability to compete as one of the leading prime contractors for technologically advanced space satellites, SS/L must continuously retain the services of a core group of specialists in a wide variety of disciplines for each phase of the design, development, manufacture and testing of its products, thus reducing SS/L’s flexibility to take action to reduce workforce costs in the event of a slowdown or downturn in its business. Further, SS/L’s ability to compete is dependent upon its maintaining specialized manufacturing and test facilities with fixed costs that cannot be adjusted to account for significant variance in production requirements or economic conditions. 17 Table of Contents SS/L’s contracts are subject to adjustments, cost overruns and termination. SS/L’s major contracts are firm fixed-price contracts under which work performed and products shipped are paid for at a fixed price without adjustment for actual costs incurred. While cost savings under these fixed-price contracts result in gains to SS/L, cost increases result in reduction of profits or increase of losses, borne solely by SS/L. Under such contracts, SS/L may receive progress payments, or it may receive partial payments upon the attainment of certain program milestones. If performance on these milestones is delayed, SS/L’s receipt of the corresponding payments will also be delayed. As the prime contractor, SS/L is generally liable to its customer for schedule delays and other non-performance by SS/L’s suppliers, which may be largely outside of its control. Non-performance may increase costs and subject SS/L to damage claims from customers and termination of the contract for SS/L’s default. SS/L’s contracts contain detailed and complex technical specifications to which the satellite must be built. It is very common that satellites built by SS/L do not conform in every single respect to, and contain a small number of minor deviations from, the technical specifications. Customers typically accept the satellite with such minor deviations. In the case of more significant deviations, however, SS/L may incur increased costs to bring the satellite within or close to the contractual specifications or a customer may exercise its contractual right to terminate the contract for default. In some cases, such as when the actual weight of the satellite exceeds the specified weight, SS/L may incur a predetermined penalty with respect to the deviation. As of March 12, 2010, SS/L and a customer have agreed to suspend final construction of a satellite pending, among other things, further analysis relating to efforts to meet the satellite performance criteria and/or confirmation that alternative performance criteria would be acceptable. The customer has also stated that it is currently evaluating potential alternative uses for the satellite. There can be no assurance that a dispute will not arise as to whether the satellite meets its technical performance specifications or if such a dispute did arise that SS/L would prevail. See Note 14 to the Loral consolidated financial statements for further detail on this matter. A failure by SS/L to deliver a satellite to its customer by the specified delivery date, which may result from factors beyond SS/L’s control, such as delayed performance or non-performance by its subcontractors or failure to obtain necessary governmental licenses for delivery, would also be harmful to SS/L unless mitigated by applicable contract terms, such as excusable delay. As a general matter, SS/L’s failure to deliver beyond any contractually provided grace period would result in the incurrence of liquidated damages by SS/L, which may be substantial, and if SS/L is still unable to deliver the satellite upon the end of the liquidated damages period, the customer will generally have the right to terminate the contract for default. If a contract is terminated for default, SS/L would be liable for a refund of customer payments made to date, and could also have additional liability for excess re-procurement costs and other damages incurred by its customer, although SS/L would own the satellite under construction and attempt to recoup any losses through resale to another customer. A contract termination for default could have a material adverse effect on SS/L and us. As of March 12, 2010, SS/L has a contract-in-process with an estimated delivery date later than the contractually specified date after which the customer may terminate the contract for default. See Note 14 to the Loral consolidated financial statements for further detail on this contract. In addition, many of SS/L’s contracts may be terminated for convenience by the customer or the prime contractor. In the event of such a termination, SS/L is normally entitled to recover the purchase price for delivered items, reimbursement for allowable costs for work in process and an allowance for profit or an adjustment for loss, depending on whether completion of the project would have resulted in a profit or loss. SS/L’s accounting for long-term contracts requires adjustments to profit and loss based on estimates revised during the execution of the contract. These adjustments may have a material effect on our consolidated financial position and our results of operations in the period in which they are made. The estimates giving rise to these risks, which are inherent in long-term, fixed-price contracts, include the forecasting of costs and schedules, contract revenues related to contract performance and the potential for component obsolescence due to procurement long before assembly. Certain of SS/L’s customers are highly leveraged and may not fulfill their contractual payment obligations to SS/L. Historically, SS/L’s customers have been primarily large multinational corporations and U.S. and foreign governments for which the creditworthiness was generally substantial. In recent years, however, SS/L has added commercial customers that are highly leveraged, as well as those in the development stage that are only partially funded. There is a risk that these customers will be unable to meet their payment obligations to SS/L under their construction contracts. This risk is increased due to the current economic conditions. For example, in 2009, two of SS/L’s customers filed for chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. For further details about the effect on SS/L of these bankruptcies, see Note 14 to the Loral consolidated financial statements. A customer’s inability to fulfill its payment obligations to SS/L may materially and adversely affect SS/L’s cash flows and liquidity. 18 Table of Contents Moreover, many of SS/L’s satellite contracts permit SS/L’s customers to pay a portion of the purchase price for the satellite over time subject to the continued performance of the satellite (“orbitals”), and certain of SS/L’s satellite contracts may require SS/L to provide vendor financing to its customers, or a combination of these contractual terms. To the extent that SS/L provides vendor financing to customers, its financial exposure is further increased. In some cases, these arrangements are provided to customers that are start-up companies, companies in the early stages of building their businesses or highly leveraged companies, in some cases, with near-term debt maturities. There can be no assurance that these companies or their businesses will be successful and, accordingly, that they will be able to fulfill their payment obligations under their contracts with SS/L. As of December 31, 2009, SS/L had recorded orbital receivables of $240 million, of which $32 million was from these companies. SS/L may forfeit payments from customers as a result of satellite failures or losses after launch or may be liable for penalty payments under certain circumstances, and these losses may be uninsured. Most of SS/L’s satellite manufacturing contracts provide that some of the total price is contingently payable as “incentive” payments earned over the life of the satellite, subject to satellite performance. SS/L generally does not insure for these incentive payments (also known as orbital payments) and in some cases agrees with its customers not to insure them. SS/L records the present value of orbital payments as revenue during the construction of the satellite. SS/L generally receives the present value of these incentive payments if there is a launch failure or a failure caused by customer error. SS/L forfeits some or all of these payments, however, if the loss is caused by satellite failure or as a result of its own error. As of December 31, 2009, SS/L had recorded orbital receivables of $240 million. Since these orbital receivables could be affected by future satellite performance, there can be no assurance that SS/L will be able to collect all or a portion of these receivables. See above “SS/L’s contracts are subject to adjustments, cost overruns and termination.” Some of SS/L’s contracts provide that SS/L may be liable to a customer for penalty payments under certain circumstances, including late delivery, or that a portion of the price paid by the customer is subject to “warranty payback” in the event satellite anomalies were to develop (see Note 14 to the Loral consolidated financial statements). These contingent liabilities are not insured by SS/L. We have recorded reserves in our financial statements based on our current estimates of SS/L’s warranty liabilities. There is no assurance that SS/L’s actual liabilities to its customers in respect of these warranty liabilities will not be greater than the amount reserved. Some satellites built by SS/L, including one satellite operated by Telesat, have experienced minor losses of power from their solar arrays. Thirty of the satellites built by SS/L and launched since 1997 have experienced partial losses of power from their solar arrays. There can be no assurance that one or more will not experience an additional power loss that could lead to a loss of transponder capacity and performance degradation. A partial or complete loss of a satellite could result in an incurrence of warranty payments by, or a loss of orbital incentive payments to, SS/L. SS/L has implemented remediation measures that SS/L believes will reduce this type of anomaly for satellites launched after June 2001. For further details see Note 14 to the Loral consolidated financial statements. Some satellites built by SS/L have the same design as another SS/L-built satellite that has experienced a partial failure. In November 2004, Galaxy 27 (formerly Telstar 7) experienced an anomaly which caused it to completely cease operations for several days before it was partially recovered. In June 2008, Galaxy 26 (formerly Telstar 6) experienced a similar anomaly which caused the loss of power to one of the satellite’s solar arrays. Three other satellites manufactured by SS/L for other customers have designs similar to Galaxy 27 and Galaxy 26 and, therefore, could be susceptible to similar anomalies in the future. A partial or complete loss of these satellites could result in the incurrence of warranty payments by SS/L of up to $3.3 million, of which $0.8 million has been accrued as of December 31, 2009. 19 Table of Contents We are subject to export control and economic sanctions laws, which may result in delays, lost business and additional costs. SS/L is required by the U.S. State Department to obtain licenses and enter into technical assistance agreements to export satellites and related equipment and to disclose technical data or provide defense services to foreign persons. In addition, if a satellite project involves countries, individuals or entities that are the subject of U.S. economic sanctions, which we refer to here as Sanctions Targets, or is intended to provide services to Sanctions Targets, SS/L’s participation in the project may be prohibited altogether or licenses or other approvals from the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) may be required. The delayed receipt of or the failure to obtain the necessary U.S. Government licenses, approvals and agreements may prohibit entry into or interrupt the completion of a satellite contract by SS/L and could lead to a customer’s termination of a contract for SS/L default, monetary penalties and/or the loss of incentive payments. We have in the past failed to obtain the export licenses necessary to deliver satellites to our Chinese customers. Some of our customers and potential customers, along with insurance underwriters and brokers, have asserted that U.S. export control laws and regulations governing disclosures to foreign persons excessively restrict their access to information about the satellite during construction and on-orbit. OFAC sanctions and requirements may also limit certain business opportunities or also delay or restrict our ability to contract with potential foreign customers or operators. To the extent that our non-U.S. competitors are not subject to these export control or economic sanctions laws and regulations, they may enjoy a competitive advantage with foreign customers, and, to the extent that our foreign competitors continue to gain market share, it could become increasingly difficult for the U.S. satellite manufacturing industry, including SS/L, to recapture this lost market share. For example, one of our European competitors, Thales Alenia Space, is offering “ITAR-free” telecommunications satellites, that purport to contain no components obtained from United States sources that are subject to the export and re-export limitations imposed by the U.S. International Traffic in Arms Regulations or ITAR. Customers concerned over the possibility that the U.S. government may deny the export license necessary for SS/L to deliver to them their purchased satellite, or the restrictions or delays imposed by the U.S. government licensing requirements even where an export license is granted, may elect to choose a purportedly “ITAR-free” satellite over an SS/L satellite. We are further disadvantaged by the fact that an “ITAR-free” satellite may be launched in China on the substantially cheaper Chinese Long March rocket, a launch vehicle that, because of ITAR restrictions, is not available to SS/L or other suppliers subject to ITAR restrictions. The recent trend toward industry consolidation in the satellite services industry may adversely affect us; we do not control satellite procurement decisions at Telesat. The recent industry consolidation trend has resulted in the formation of satellite operators with greater satellite resources and increased coverage. This consolidation may reduce demand for new satellite construction as operators may need fewer satellites in orbit to provide back-up coverage or to rationalize the amount of capacity available in certain geographic regions. It may also result in concentrating additional bargaining power in the hands of large customers, which could increase pressure on pricing and other contractual terms. We do not control satellite procurement decisions at Telesat, and there can be no assurance that Telesat will purchase additional satellites from SS/L. Moreover, any decision relating to the enforcement of existing or future satellite contracts between Telesat and SS/L will be made on arms length terms and, in certain cases, subject to approval by the disinterested directors of Telesat. The availability of facility space and qualified personnel may affect SS/L’s ability to perform its contracts in a timely and efficient manner. SS/L has won a number of satellite construction awards over the last few years and, as a result, its backlog has expanded significantly. In order to complete construction of all the satellites in backlog and to enable future growth, SS/L has modified and expanded its manufacturing facilities. SS/L can now accommodate as many as nine to 13 satellite awards per year, depending on the complexity and timing of the specific satellites, and can accommodate the integration and test of 13 to 14 satellites at any given time in its Palo Alto facility. Nevertheless, due to scheduling requirements, SS/L is reliant on availability of outside suppliers for certain production and testing activities, and there can be no assurance that such outside suppliers will be able to accommodate SS/L’s schedule requirements. Further, there can be no assurance that SS/L will be able to hire or retain enough employees with the requisite skills and training and, accordingly, SS/L may not be able to perform its contracts as efficiently as planned or grow its business to the planned level. Our ability to obtain certain satellite contract awards depends, in part, on our ability to provide the customer with financing. During its history, SS/L has provided financing to customers to enable it to win certain contracts. The financing has typically been in the form of orbital receivables, vendor financing, loans and direct investments in the customer. The SS/L Credit Agreement limits SS/L’s ability to provide customers with financing. If SS/L is unable to provide financing to a customer, it could lose the construction contract to a competitor that could provide financing. 20 Table of Contents SS/L relies on certain key suppliers whose failure or delayed performance would adversely affect us. To build its satellites, SS/L relies on suppliers, some of whom are competitors of SS/L, to provide it with certain component parts. The number of suppliers capable of providing these components is limited, and in some cases, the supplier is in a sole source position based upon the unique nature of its product or customer requirement to procure components with proven flight heritage whenever possible. These suppliers are not all large, well-capitalized companies, and to the extent they were to experience financial difficulties, their ability to timely deliver to SS/L components that satisfy SS/L’s customer’s contractual specifications could be impaired. In the past, SS/L’s performance under its construction contracts with its customers has been adversely affected because of a supplier’s failure or delayed performance. As discussed above under “— SS/L’s contracts are subject to adjustments, cost overruns and termination,” a failure by SS/L to meet its contractual delivery requirements could well give rise to liquidated damage payments by SS/L and/or a customer’s termination of its construction contract with SS/L for default. We face risks in conducting business internationally. For the year ended December 31, 2009, approximately 46% of SS/L’s revenue was generated from customers outside of the United States. SS/L could be harmed financially and operationally by changes in foreign regulations and telecommunications standards, tariffs or taxes and other trade barriers that may be imposed on its services or by political and economic instability in the countries in which it conducts business. Almost all of SS/L’s contracts with foreign customers require payment in U.S. dollars, and customers in developing countries could have difficulty obtaining U.S. dollars to pay SS/L due to currency exchange controls and other factors. Exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect the ability of SS/L customers to pay in U.S. dollars. If SS/L needs to pursue legal remedies against its foreign business partners or customers, it may have to sue them abroad where it could be difficult for SS/L to enforce its rights. We rely on patents, trade secrets and know-how; infringement by SS/L of third party patents would increase our costs, and third parties may challenge our patents. SS/L relies, in part, on patents, trade secrets and know-how to develop and maintain its competitive position. It holds 170 patents in the United States and has applications for nine patents pending in the United States. SS/L patents include those relating to communications, station keeping, power control systems, antennae, filters and oscillators, phased arrays and thermal control as well as assembly and inspection technology. The SS/L patents that are currently in force expire between 2010 and 2025. There can be no assurance that infringement of existing third party patents has not occurred or will not occur. In the event of infringement, we could be required to pay royalties to obtain a license from the patent holder, refund money to customers for components that are not useable or redesign our products to avoid infringement, all of which would increase our costs. We may also be required under the terms of our customer contracts to indemnify our customers for damages. Further, there is a risk that competitors could challenge or infringe SS/L’s patents. • Risk Factors Associated With Satellite Services A substantial amount of Telesat revenues are derived from only a few of its customers. A loss of one or more of these major customers, or a material adverse change in any such customer’s business or financial condition, could materially reduce Telesat future revenues and contracted backlog. For the year ended December 31, 2009, Telesat’s top five customers together accounted for approximately 47% of its revenues. At December 31, 2009, Telesat’s top five backlog customers together accounted for approximately 88% of its backlog. If any of Telesat’s major customers chose to not renew their contracts at the expiration of the existing terms or sought to negotiate concessions, particularly on price, that could have a material adverse effect on Telesat’s results of operations, business prospects and financial condition. Telesat’s customers could experience a downturn in their business or find themselves in financial difficulties, which could result in their ceasing or reducing their use of Telesat’s services (or becoming unable to pay for services they had contracted to buy). In addition, the industries in which some of Telesat’s customers operate are undergoing significant consolidation, and Telesat’s customers may be acquired by other companies, including by its competitors. Such acquisitions could adversely affect Telesat’s ability to sell services to such customers and to any end-users whom they serve. Additionally, Telesat’s largest customer, Bell TV, is part of BCE. Since the Telesat transaction, Telesat is no longer a subsidiary of BCE or an affiliate of Bell TV and may have lost certain competitive advantages with respect to Bell TV. There is no guarantee that Bell TV will continue using Telesat’s services after the expiration of its current contracts. 21 Table of Contents Launch delays or failures may result in delays in operations. Delays in launching satellites are not uncommon and result from construction delays, the unavailability of appropriate launch vehicles, launch failures and other factors. Delays in satellite launches would result in delays in Telesat’s revenues, could affect plans to replace an in-orbit satellite prior to the end of its useful life, could result in the expiration or cancellation of launch insurance, could result in the loss of orbital slot rights, termination of contracts by affected customers and a reduction in contracted backlog. Upon termination of a customer contract, Telesat would be required to refund any prepayments made to it by its terminating customer, which in the case of a major customer, may be substantial. Satellite launches are risky, and some launch attempts have ended in complete or partial failure. A significant delay or launch failure of a Telesat satellite may have a material adverse effect on Telesat’s results of operations, business prospects and financial condition, which in turn would have a material adverse effect on our results and condition. For example, the March 15, 2008 failure of a Proton rocket to lift its satellite payload to the appropriate orbit caused a delay in the planned launch of the Nimiq 4 satellite, originally scheduled to be launched on a Proton rocket in mid-2008. Although Nimiq 4 successfully launched in September 2008, the launch delay caused a delay in receipt of revenues from that satellite in 2008 and deferred the backlog run-off previously anticipated for Nimiq 4 in 2008. The launch of Telstar 14R, which is planned for mid-2011, may likewise also be delayed if the launch vehicle on which it is scheduled to be launched suffers a failure prior to the launch of Telstar 14R. After launch, satellites remain vulnerable to in-orbit failures which may result in reduced revenues and profits and other financial consequences. Satellites utilize highly complex technology and operate in the harsh environment of space and therefore are subject to significant operational risks while in orbit. In-orbit damage to or loss of a satellite before the end of its expected life results from various causes, some random, including component failure, degradation of solar panels, loss of power or fuel, inability to maintain the satellite’s position, solar and other astronomical events and space debris. Some of Telesat’s satellites have had malfunctions and other anomalies, and in certain cases are currently operating using back-up components because of the failure of their primary components. If the back-up components fail, however, and Telesat is unable to restore capability through redundancy or other means, these satellites could lose capacity or be total losses. Any single anomaly or series of anomalies or other failure could cause Telesat’s revenues, cash flows and backlog to decline materially, could require it to recognize an impairment loss and could require Telesat to expedite its satellite replacement program, affecting its profitability and increasing its financing needs. It could also require Telesat to repay prepayments made by customers of the affected satellite. It could also result in a customer terminating its contract for service on the affected satellite. If the affected satellite involves one of Telesat’s major customers, there could be a material adverse effect on Telesat’s operations, prospects, results and financial condition, which in turn would adversely affect us. It may be difficult to obtain full insurance coverage for satellites that have, or are part of a family of satellites that has, experienced problems in the past; moreover, not all satellite-related losses will be covered by insurance. Telesat’s satellite insurance does not protect it against all satellite-related losses. For example, satellite insurance will not protect it against business interruption, lost revenues or delay of revenues. Telesat also does not have in-orbit insurance coverage for all of the satellites in its fleet. Telesat’s existing launch and in-orbit insurance policies include, and future policies are expected to include, specified exclusions, deductibles and material change limitations. Typically, these insurance policies exclude coverage for damage arising from acts of war and other exclusions then customary in the industry. In addition, they typically exclude coverage for health-related problems affecting satellites that are known at the time the policy is written. To the extent Telesat experiences a launch or in-orbit failure that is not fully insured, or for which insurance proceeds are delayed or disputed, it may not have sufficient resources to replace the affected satellite. Launch and in-orbit policies on satellites may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The loss of a satellite may have a material adverse effect on Telesat’s results of operations, business prospects and financial condition, which may not be adequately mitigated by insurance coverage. 22 Table of Contents Telesat competes for market share, customers and orbital slots. A trend toward consolidation of major FSS providers has resulted in the creation of global competitors which are substantially larger than Telesat in terms of both the number of satellites they have in orbit as well as in terms of their revenues. Due to their larger sizes, these operators are able to take advantage of greater economies of scale, may be more attractive to customers, and may have greater flexibility to restore service to their customers in the event of a partial or total satellite failure. Telesat also faces competition from regional operators, which may enjoy competitive advantages in their local markets. Telesat’s affiliation with us may also adversely affect its ability to compete for certain contracts, especially in its consulting services business. In addition, Telesat competes for local regulatory approval in places where more than one provider may want to operate and for scarce frequency assignments and a limited supply of orbital locations. Telesat’s business is also subject to competition from ground based forms of communications technology. For many point-to-point and other services, the offerings provided by terrestrial companies can be more competitive than the services offered via satellite. New technology could also render satellite-based services less competitive by satisfying consumer demand in other ways. Telesat’s failure to compete effectively would result in, among other things, a loss of revenue and a decline in profitability, and a decrease in the value of its business. Changes in the Canadian competitive environment could adversely affect Telesat. A substantial portion of Telesat’s business is expected to continue in the Canadian domestic market. This market is characterized by increasing competition and rapid technological development among satellite providers. The Canadian regulatory framework has always required the use of Canadian-licensed satellites for the delivery of direct-to-home (“DTH”) programming in Canada. It is possible that this framework could change and allow non-Canadian satellite operators to compete for future business from DTH customers, which constitute some of Telesat’s major customers. Industry Canada, the Canadian telecommunications authority, has authorized Telesat to operate at a number of orbital locations. Industry Canada has also awarded a number of licenses to a new Canadian satellite provider, Ciel Satellite Group, including licenses to spectrum suitable for providing a variety of satellite services to Canadian customers. Increased competition in Canada may adversely affect Telesat’s access rights to certain Canadian orbital locations, which in turn could adversely affect Telesat’s results of operations, business prospects and financial condition. Telesat operates in a highly regulated industry and government regulations may adversely affect its business. Telesat is subject to the laws of Canada and the United States and the telecommunications regulatory authorities of the Canadian government, primarily the Canadian Radio-Television and Telecommunications Commission, or CRTC, and Industry Canada, as well as those of the United States government, primarily the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, the International Telecommunications Union, or the ITU, the European Union, Brazil and Isle of Man. It is also subject to the laws and regulations of other countries to, from or within which it provides services. Regulatory authorities can modify, withdraw or impose charges or conditions upon, or deny or delay action on applications for, the licenses Telesat needs for its business, including its access rights to orbital positions. Countries or regulatory authorities may adopt new laws, policies or regulations, change their interpretation of existing laws, policies or regulations or otherwise take actions in a manner that could adversely affect Telesat’s operations or revenues. To prevent frequency interference, the regulatory process requires potentially lengthy and costly negotiations with third parties who operate or intend to operate satellites at or near the locations of Telesat satellites. These negotiations have resulted in financial concessions in the past and there can be no assurance that such concessions may not be required in the future. The failure to reach an appropriate arrangement with a third party having priority rights at or near one of Telesat’s orbital slots may result in substantial restrictions on the use and operation of its satellite at that location. For example, the Russian Satellite Communications Company (“RSCC”) has announced that it intends to launch a satellite to be operated at 14° WL, adjacent to the location of Telesat’s Telstar 12 satellite at 15° WL. RSCC’s ITU rights over certain frequencies at 14° WL have priority over Telesat’s use of these same frequencies in its operation of Telstar 12. Telesat is currently in frequency coordination discussions with RSCC. If Telesat fails to reach an appropriate arrangement with RSCC, it may result in restrictions on the use and operation of Telstar 12 which could materially restrict Telesat’s ability to earn revenue from Telstar 12 and any replacement satellite or may make a replacement satellite not economically viable. In addition, while the ITU rules require later-in-time systems to coordinate with it, there can be no assurance that other operators will conduct their operations so as to avoid transmitting any signals that would cause harmful interference to the operation of Telesat’s satellites. Failure to successfully coordinate Telesat’s satellites’ frequencies or to resolve other required regulatory approvals could have an adverse effect on its financial condition, as well as on the value of its business, which would in turn adversely affect us. 23 Table of Contents Telesat’s ability to replace one of its satellites is subject to additional risk and cannot be assured. In addition to the risks with respect to Telesat’s ability to renew its licenses to orbital locations, there is also a specific risk with respect to Telesat being able to replace Telstar 18. Telesat operates Telstar 18 pursuant to agreements with APT Satellite Company Limited (“APT”) that has a license to use the orbital location controlled by the government of Tonga. Although Telesat’s agreement with APT provides Telesat with renewal rights with respect to a replacement satellite at this orbital location, there can be no assurance that renewal rights will be granted. Should Telesat be unsuccessful in obtaining renewal rights for the orbital location because of the control of the orbital location exercised by Tonga, or should Telesat otherwise fail to enter into agreements with APT with respect to such replacement satellite, all revenue obtained from Telstar 18 would cease and such loss of revenue could have a material adverse effect on Telesat’s results of operations and financial condition, which would in turn adversely affect us. III. Other Risks Third parties have significant rights with respect to our affiliates. Third parties have significant rights with respect to, and we do not have control over management of, our affiliates. For example, Hisdesat enjoys substantial approval rights in regard to XTAR, our X-band joint venture. Also, while we own 64% of the participating shares of Telesat, we own only 331/3% of the voting power. The rights of these third parties and fiduciary duties under applicable law could result in others acting or failing to act in ways that are not in our best interest. While these entities are or have been customers of SS/L, due to these third party rights and the fiduciary duties of the boards of these entities, there can be no assurance that these entities will continue to be customers of SS/L, and SS/L does not expect to do business with these entities on other than fair and competitive terms. We rely on key personnel. We need highly qualified personnel. Michael Targoff, our chief executive officer, has an employment contract expiring in December 2010. We do not maintain “key man” life insurance. The departure of any of our key executives could have an adverse effect on our business. MHR may be viewed as our controlling stockholder and may have conflicts of interest with us in the future. As of December 31, 2009, various funds affiliated with MHR held approximately 39.9% of the outstanding voting common stock of Loral as well as all issued and outstanding shares of Loral non-voting common stock, which, when taken together, represent approximately 59.0% of the common equity of Loral as of December 31, 2009. As of March 12, 2010, representatives of MHR occupy three of the nine seats on our board of directors (seven of which are currently occupied). In addition, one of our other directors was selected by the creditors’ committee in our predecessor’s chapter 11 cases, in which MHR served as the chairman. Conflicts of interests may arise in the future between us and MHR. For example, MHR and its affiliated funds are in the business of making investments in companies and may acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Under our agreement with PSP, subject to certain exceptions, in the event that either (i) ownership or control, directly or indirectly, by Dr. Mark H. Rachesky, President of MHR, of our voting stock falls below certain levels or (ii) there is a change in the composition of a majority of the members of the Loral board of directors over a consecutive two-year period, we will lose our veto rights relating to certain actions by Telesat. In addition, after either of these events, PSP will have certain rights to enable it to exit from its investment in Telesat, including a right to cause Telesat to conduct an initial public offering in which PSP’s shares would be the first shares offered or, if no such offering has occurred within one year due to a lack of cooperation from Loral or Telesat, to cause the sale of Telesat and to drag along the other shareholders in such sale, subject to our right to call PSP’s shares at fair market value. The future use of tax attributes is limited. As of December 31, 2009, we had federal net operating loss carryforwards, or NOLs of approximately $478 million and state NOLs of various amounts that are available to offset future taxable income (see Notes 2 and 9 to the Loral consolidated financial statements for a description of the accounting treatment of such NOLs). As our reorganization on November 21, 2005 constituted an “ownership change” under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, our ability to use these NOLs, as well as certain other tax attributes existing at such effective date, is subject to an annual limitation of approximately $32.6 million, subject to increase or decrease based on certain factors. If Loral experiences an additional “ownership change” during any three-year period after November 21, 2005, future use of these tax attributes may become further limited. An ownership change may be triggered by sales or acquisitions of Loral equity interests in excess of 50% by shareholders owning five percent or more of our total equity value, i.e., the total market value of our equity interests (whether common or preferred), as determined on any applicable testing date. We would be adversely affected by an additional “ownership change” if at the time of such change, our total equity value multiplied by the federal applicable long-term tax exempt rate which at December 31, 2009 was 4.16%, was less than $32.6 million. As of December 31, 2009, since our total equity value multiplied by the federal applicable long-term tax exempt rate was approximately $39.3 million an “ownership change” as of that date would have no adverse effect. 24 Table of Contents There is a thin trading market for our common stock. Trading activity in our stock, which is listed on the NASDAQ National Market, has generally been light, averaging approximately 53,000 shares per day for the year ended December 31, 2009. Moreover, over 50% of our common stock is effectively held by MHR and several other stockholders. If any of our significant stockholders should sell some or all of their holdings, it will likely have an adverse effect on our share price. Although the funds affiliated with MHR have restrictions on their ability to sell our shares under U.S. securities laws, we have filed a shelf registration statement in respect of the common stock and non-voting common stock they hold in Loral that eliminates such restrictions. Such funds also have other demand and piggyback registration rights in respect of their Loral common stock and non-voting common stock that would also, if exercised, eliminate such restrictions. The market for our stock could be adversely affected by future issuance of significant amounts of our common stock. As of December 31, 2009, 20,390,752 shares of our voting common stock and 9,505,673 shares of our non-voting common stock were outstanding. On that date, there were outstanding options to purchase 1,786,077 shares of our common stock, of which 1,692,327 were vested and exercisable and of which 93,750 will become vested and exercisable over the next three years. There were also 223,250 non-vested restricted stock units outstanding as of December 31, 2009. These restricted stock units, which may be settled either in cash or Loral stock at the Company’s option, vest over the next 2.5 years. As of December 31, 2009, 572,373 shares of our common stock were available for future grants under our stock incentive plan. The number of shares available for grant would be reduced if SS/L phantom stock appreciation rights are settled in Loral common stock. Moreover, we may further amend our stock incentive plan in the future to provide for additional increases in the number of shares available for grant thereunder. Sales of significant amounts of our common stock to the public, or the perception that those sales could happen, could adversely affect the market for, and the trading price of, our common stock. Litigation and Disputes We are involved in a number of ongoing lawsuits. We are involved in a number of lawsuits, details of which can be found in Note 14 to the Loral consolidated financial statements. In addition, we are involved in a number of disputes which might result in litigation. A decision against us in any of these lawsuits or disputes could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and our results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 