ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We may fail to compete effectively, particularly against larger more established pharmaceutical and health products companies, or low cost generic drug manufacturers, causing our business and operating results to suffer. The consumer health products industry is highly competitive. We compete with companies that are engaged in the development of both traditional and innovative healthcare products. Many of these companies have much greater financial and technical resources, and production and marketing capabilities than we do. As well, many of these companies have already achieved significant product acceptance and brand recognition with respect to products that compete directly with our products. We also face substantial and increasing competition from new or existing store brand over-the-counter products. Store brand competitors in particular are becoming more aggressive and their products are an increasing percentage of overall category sales. Further, store brand products are generally lower in price and demand for lower-price products may increase. Generic or store brand alternatives to some of our products, such as the Zicam Cold Remedy Oral Mist and Zicam Cold Remedy RapidMelts products, can be found in the marketplace. The intellectual property rights that protect our products are of varying strengths and durations. Although it is our general policy to protect our intellectual property rights, we may not be able to prevent the emergence of competing products. If consumers prefer these products, or if these products have better safety, efficacy, or pricing characteristics or are easier to administer, our results could be negatively impacted. Our business is subject to seasonality that may cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate materially and cause the market price of our stock to decline. Sales of our existing Zicam products are extremely seasonal in nature and are dependent upon the severity of the cold and flu season. Sales at retail generally increase as the level of population suffering from colds rises. During the quarter ending September 30, the Company usually realizes increased sales volume as retailers stock our products and order displays to prepare for the upcoming cold/flu season. Additional sales (re-orders) to retailers are highly dependent upon the incidence of illness within the population. Retail consumption of our products is highest during the cold/flu season, which usually runs from October through March. If there is a mild cold/flu season, 8 Table of Contents revenues from sales of our Zicam products will be adversely affected. Because it is difficult to anticipate the length and severity of the cold/flu season, we cannot estimate the fluctuation of our sales from quarter to quarter in a fiscal year or the impact of the cold/flu season year to year. If our operating results fall below financial analysts’ or investors’ expectations due to cold/flu seasonality factors, the market price of our common stock may decline. We may continue to incur significant costs resulting from product liability, economic injury, or securities litigation. Numerous lawsuits have been filed against us. The vast majority of our existing lawsuits were filed against us following our receipt of the June 2009 FDA warning letter (see “Business — Introduction — FDA Warning Letter; Recall of Zicam Nasal Gel Products” in Part I, Item 1 above). The lawsuits principally fall into two categories of product liability claims: (i) those alleging that our Zicam Cold Remedy nasal gel products caused the permanent loss or diminishment of the sense of smell or smell and taste (i.e., personal injury claims) and (ii) those seeking compensation for the purchase price of the Zicam Cold Remedy nasal gel products or various forms of equitable relief based on allegations that the Company misrepresented the safety and/or efficacy of such products to consumers (i.e., economic injury claims). Various defendants in the lawsuits, including manufacturers and retailers, have sought indemnification or other recovery from us for damages related to the lawsuits. Although we believe the product liability claims are without merit, they have resulted in significant legal defense and aggregate settlement costs, which have increased our expenses and lowered our earnings. Such claims, whether or not proven to be valid, could have a material adverse effect on our brand equity and goodwill, resulting in reduced market acceptance of our products. In addition, any adverse decision in such litigation could require significant damages to be paid or result in adverse publicity, either of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Separately, certain officers, directors, and former officers of the Company, are also subject to class action and derivative lawsuits alleging violations of securities laws. Any adverse decision in such litigation could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Because a significant portion of our business depends substantially on a small group of large national retailers, our sales, operating margins and income would be adversely affected by any disruption of our relationship with these retailers, or any other material adverse change in such retailers’ businesses. We are highly dependent on a small group of large national retailers for our product distribution, such that our top 15 customers accounted for more than 80% of our net sales in fiscal 2010 and prior years. Three customers, Wal-Mart, Walgreens, and CVS, together accounted for 51% of net sales in fiscal 2010, 50% of net sales in fiscal 2009, and 48% of our net sales in fiscal 2008. Should any of our top customers encounter financial difficulties, stop carrying our products for any reason, or should our current relationship with any of our top customers adversely change in any way, the resulting loss of business, exposure on uncollectible receivables and unusable inventory could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. In addition, our results could be affected by fluctuations in buying patterns and inventory levels of these top customers. Climate change theories pose potential regulatory risks that could harm our results of operations or affect the way we conduct our business. Climate change mitigation programs and regulations can increase our costs. For example, emissions trading programs that may be imposed by government regulation could affect our manufacturers’ costs and may be passed on to us. There is also a potential for higher energy costs driven by climate change regulations. Our costs could increase if utility companies pass on their costs, such as those associated with carbon taxes, emission cap and trade programs, or renewable portfolio standards. Growth in the sales of our over-the-counter healthcare products may be affected, in part, by factors beyond our control, such as media attention, adverse publicity, and regulatory changes. In the event of future unfavorable scientific results or media attention, sales of our products could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if any of our products receive additional adverse publicity, our operating results and prospects could be materially adversely affected. Changes in the regulatory environment that restrict certain over-the-counter active drug ingredients could materially adversely affect sales of our products. 9 Table of Contents Our future growth will depend in part upon our ability to develop and achieve sales of new products. We cannot be certain that any of our products will achieve or continue to enjoy widespread acceptance by the market. While we are working to increase the market presence of our products, including new products, we cannot be certain that demand for our products will grow. If new products or brands do not achieve consumer acceptance, operating results could be materially adversely affected. Our business is subject to regulation in the U.S. Changes in laws, regulations and the related interpretations or enforcement actions could alter our business environment and impact our ability to market and sell our products. This includes changes in competitive, product-related, and regulatory laws, as well as changes in accounting standards and taxation. Accordingly, our ability to manage and resolve pending regulatory and legal matters without significant liability, which could require us to take significant reserves in excess of amounts accrued to date or pay significant fines during a reporting period, may materially impact our results. Unanticipated problems associated with product development and commercialization of new and existing products could adversely affect our operating results. Our successful maintenance of existing products and development of new products are subject to the risks of failure and delay inherent in the development and commercialization of products. These risks include the possibilities that: • we may experience unanticipated or otherwise negative research and development results; • existing or proposed products may be found to be ineffective or unsafe, or may otherwise fail to receive required regulatory clearances or approvals; • we may find that existing or proposed products, while safe and effective, are uneconomical to commercialize or market; • we may be unable to produce sufficient product to meet customer demand; • we may experience adverse publicity from product liability lawsuits that could materially impact consumer demand; or • existing or proposed products do not achieve or maintain broad distribution or market acceptance. Research, development and testing can be long, expensive and uncertain processes. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to complete development of new products. If we are unsuccessful in advancing our early stage products into marketable consumer-ready products for any reason, our business prospects could be harmed. The inability to provide scientific proof for product claims may adversely affect our sales. The marketing of our Zicam products involves claims that these products assist in reducing the duration of the common cold (in the case of Zicam Cold Remedy products) and controlling allergy symptoms (in the case of Zicam Allergy Relief). Under FDA and FTC rules, we are required to obtain scientific data to support any claims we make concerning our products. We have scientific data for our product claims; however, we cannot be certain that these scientific data will be deemed acceptable to the FDA, FTC or other regulatory bodies. If any regulatory body requests supporting information and we are unable to provide support that is acceptable, either the FDA or FTC could force us to stop making the claims in question or restrict us from selling the affected products. FDA and other government regulation may restrict our ability to sell our products or require us to recall products. We are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting our business. Our Zicam products are subject to regulation by the FDA, including regulations with respect to manufacture and labeling of products, approval of ingredients in products, claims made regarding the products, and disclosure of product 10 Table of Contents ingredients. If we, or our third-party manufacturers, do not comply with these regulations or if these regulations or interpretations change in the future, the FDA could force us to stop selling the affected products or require us to incur substantial costs in adopting measures to maintain compliance with these regulations. If the FDA came to believe that any of our products do not comply with the regulations or caused harm to consumers, we could be required to stop selling that product or subject the product to a recall. Our advertising claims regarding our products are also subject to the jurisdiction of the FTC. In both cases we are required to possess scientific data to support any advertising or labeling claims we make concerning our products, although no pre-clearance or filing is required to be made with either agency. If we are unable to provide the required support for such claims, the FTC may stop us from making such claims or require us to stop selling the affected products. For example, as a result of the June 2009 FDA warning letter, the Company recalled its Zicam Cold Remedy Nasal Gel and Zicam Cold Remedy Swabs. See “Business — Introduction — FDA Warning Letter; Recall of Zicam Nasal Gel Products” in Part I, Item 1 above. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property or if we infringe the intellectual property of others, our financial condition and future prospects could be materially harmed. We rely significantly on the protections afforded by patent and trademark registrations that we routinely seek from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (“USPTO”) and from similar agencies in foreign countries. We cannot be certain that any patent or trademark application that we file will be approved by the USPTO or foreign agencies. In addition, we cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully defend any trademark, trade name or patent that we hold against claims from, or use by, competitors or other third parties. No consistent policy has emerged from the USPTO or the courts regarding the breadth of claims allowed or the degree of protection afforded under biotechnology and similar patents. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights, as well as our ability to operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others. We may be required at times to take legal action to protect our proprietary rights and, despite our best efforts, we may be sued for infringing on the patent rights of others. Patent litigation is costly and, even if we prevail, the cost of such litigation could adversely affect our financial condition. If we do not prevail, in addition to any damages we might have to pay, we could be required to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license. We cannot be certain that any required license would be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If we fail to obtain a license, our business could be materially adversely affected. In addition to seeking patent protection, we rely upon a combination of non-disclosure agreements, other contractual restrictions and trade secrecy laws to protect proprietary information. There can be no assurance that these steps will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information or that our competitors will not independently develop technology or trade secrets that compete with our proprietary information or know-how. Under our current business model, we do not have manufacturing capabilities of our own. We outsource all of our product manufacturing and packaging operations under our current business model. As a result, we do not have the physical or human resources to independently manufacture our existing products or any other products that we may develop. If we are unable to enter into cost-effective or otherwise suitable arrangements for manufacturing our Zicam products or any other products, or if our third-party contractors fail to adequately perform their manufacturing operations, experience problems with product quality or regulatory compliance, or timeliness of product delivery, our sales and related financial results could be materially adversely affected. If, in the future, we decide to establish our own manufacturing facilities, we will require substantial additional funds and significant additional personnel to undertake such operations. We cannot be certain that such funding or a sufficient number of such qualified persons will be available for such an undertaking. We may pursue strategic acquisitions of technologies, products, and/or brands, which involve a variety of costs, and we may not realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions. We may pursue strategic acquisitions to acquire delivery technologies, brands, and products that would allow us to leverage our operating model. We have limited experience in identifying and consummating acquisitions. Additionally, acquisitions typically have many risks, including: unanticipated integration costs and delays; potentially substantial indebtedness; and diversion of management’s attention. If we are not able to successfully integrate an acquisition, we may incur substantial charges that could adversely affect our results of operations. 11 Table of Contents We may experience product backlogs. We have established inventory plans to support sales expectations for all of our products. However, we cannot be certain that these measures will be sufficient to prevent backlogs of product availability in the future. Any such future backlogs will potentially result in higher production costs, higher freight costs to expedite shipment of raw materials and finished goods, fines from certain retailers, cancelled orders and lost revenue. These in turn could materially affect our results of operations and financial condition. Loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. We have a limited number of employees and our success depends on the continued services of our senior management and key employees as well as our ability to attract additional members to our management team with experience in the consumer health products industry. The unexpected loss of the services of any of our management or other key personnel, or our inability to attract new management when necessary, could have a material adverse effect upon our operations and financial results. To protect against various potential liabilities, we maintain a variety of insurance programs. Significant increases in the cost or decreases in the availability of such insurance could adversely impact our financial condition. We maintain insurance, including property, general and product liability, and directors’ and officers’ liability, to protect against potential loss exposures. In addition to the risks associated with product liability insurance discussed above, we cannot predict whether deductible or retention amounts associated with all of our insurance programs will increase, or whether insurance coverage, generally speaking, will be reduced in the future. To the extent that losses occur, there could be an adverse effect on our financial results depending on the nature of the loss and the level of insurance coverage we have maintained. From time to time, we may reevaluate and change the types and levels of insurance coverage that we purchase. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue shares of preferred stock that could have rights superior to our outstanding shares of common stock and, if issued, could adversely impact the value of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation permits our Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, to issue up to 2,000,000 shares of authorized but unissued preferred stock. These shares may be issued by our Board without further action by our shareholders, and may include any of the following rights (among others) as our Board may determine, which rights may be superior to the rights of our outstanding common stock: • voting rights, including the right to vote as a class on particular matters; • preferences as to dividends and liquidation rights; • conversion rights; • anti-dilution protections; and • redemption rights. Since our Board of Directors has the authority to determine, from time to time, the terms of our authorized preferred stock, there is no limit on the amount of common stock that could be issuable upon conversion of any future series of preferred stock that may be issued. The rights of holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any series of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. In addition, the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected by the issuance of any series of preferred stock with voting or other rights superior to those of our common stock. The issuance of any series of preferred stock could also have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding common stock. 12 Table of Contents The price of our stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock, which is quoted for trading on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, has been highly volatile and may continue to be volatile in the future. Any one, or combination, of the following factors could cause the market value of our common stock to decline quickly: operating results that differ from market expectations; negative or other unanticipated results of clinical trials or other testing; delays in product development; technological innovations or commercial product introductions by our competitors; lack of timely availability of product or inventory; changes in laws or government regulations; adverse government enforcement actions; developments concerning proprietary rights, including pending or threatened patent litigation; public concerns regarding the safety of any of our products or any recall of our products; the outcome of litigation against the Company; the trading volume of our stock; and general economic and stock market conditions. The stock market has experienced, and it may continue to experience, significant price and volume fluctuations. Historically, these fluctuations particularly affect the market prices of equity securities of small micro-capitalization companies like Matrixx. Often, the effect on the price of such securities is disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. In our case, such fluctuations may adversely affect our stockholders’ ability to dispose of our shares at a price equal to or above the price at which they purchased such shares. We have agreed to indemnify our officers and directors from liability. Our Certificate of Incorporation requires us to indemnify our officers and directors who are or were made a party to, or are or were threatened to be made a party to, any threatened, pending, or completed action, suit or proceeding because he or she is or was a director or officer of the Company. These provisions require us to advance expenses to an indemnified party in connection with defending any such proceeding, upon receipt of an undertaking by the indemnified party to repay those amounts if it is later determined that the party is not entitled to indemnification. These provisions may also reduce the likelihood of derivative litigation against directors and officers and discourage or deter stockholders from suing directors or officers for breaches of their duties to us, even though such an action, if successful, might otherwise benefit us and our stockholders. In addition, to the extent that we expend funds to indemnify directors and officers, funds will be unavailable for operational purposes. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 