ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS A wide range of factors could materially affect our performance. In addition to factors affecting specific business operations and the financial results of those operations identified elsewhere in this report, the following factors, among others, could adversely affect our operations: BANKRUPTCY CONSIDERATIONS AND UNCERTAINTIES The recent tightening of the global credit markets, deterioration of the global economy and the significant strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to the local currencies of our major operating units (i.e., units contributing 81% of our 2008 revenues) have produced material uncertainties concerning our future operating results and our ability to improve our liquidity position, to consummate asset sales, to refinance or to extend our debt with 2009 or subsequent near-term maturities, and to raise additional capital, thereby creating increased uncertainty concerning our ability to meet future payment obligations. As a result of these factors and the significant indebtedness of Group, Holding, IHC and PTII, the Plan has been filed for such entities seeking Reorganization through the Chapter 11 Cases. See also information under “Item 3. Legal Proceedings—Legal Proceedings Related to the Chapter 11 Cases,” under “Item 7. MD&A—Going Concern and Voluntary Reorganization Under Chapter 11” and “—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Short- and Long-Term Liquidity Considerations and Risks,” “—Special Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements” and in these Risk Factors. If adverse events referenced or described herein or therein were to occur, we may not be able to obtain confirmation of the Plan by the Bankruptcy Court, continue as a going concern and satisfy our obligations. We may not be able to implement successfully the Plan and effect the Reorganization. The Debtors’ emergence from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection is contingent upon a number of factors. Due to the fact that the Chapter 11 Cases were filed very close in time to this Form 10-K filing, it is difficult to anticipate all Plan confirmation contingencies. However, initial uncertainties and contingencies include, among other things, the fact that: • requisite lenders of Term Loan debt have not yet entered into a definitive agreement to amend the Term Loan agreement; • amendment of the Term Loan agreement as contemplated by the Term Loan term sheet is subject to the consent of certain noteholders; • Term Loan lender forbearance under the Forbearance Agreement is limited in scope and is related to certain defaults and events of default, including matters arising out of the Chapter 11 Cases, and is subject to certain conditions and to termination and, as a result, adverse consequences could flow out of such termination or other defaults or events of default under the Term Loan that could result in Term Loan lenders seeking remedies against the Debtors and guarantors; • the Plan may not be confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court; or • the Plan Support Agreement may be terminated. The Plan Support Agreement may be terminated under certain circumstances, including in the event that the Reorganization and related disclosure statement are not approved by certain deadlines, the Reorganization is not consummated within a certain period of time after its confirmation by the Bankruptcy Court, a party materially breaches the Plan Support Agreement, a trustee or examiner with enlarged powers relating to the Debtors’ business is appointed in the Chapter 11 Cases, the Chapter 11 Cases are converted to cases under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code or the Bankruptcy Court grants relief that is inconsistent with the Plan Support Agreement or the Plan Term Sheet (as defined and described under Item 3). Moreover, although the Plan has no direct bearing on customers, suppliers or vendors, there can be no assurance that the Plan will not elicit adverse reaction from such parties and lead to an adverse effect on the Operating Subsidiaries’ ability to conduct operations in the ordinary course or the need for certain Operating Subsidiaries to seek protection under the bankruptcy laws of the United States or other similar laws in other countries. Additionally, if the Debtors remain in Chapter 11 beyond the anticipated 90-120 day period following the Petition Date, the Debtors may be faced with the need to secure 27 Table of Contents debtor in possession financing (“DIP Financing”). It is not certain that we can secure DIP Financing and, if we can, at what cost. If we are unable to implement our Reorganization under the Plan or under the Plan as amended as contemplated by the Term Loan term sheet, it would then be unclear as to whether we would be able to reorganize our businesses and what, if any, distribution holders of claims against or of equity interests in the Debtors ultimately would receive with respect to their claims or equity interests. If such Plan (or an amended plan) is not confirmed and does not become effective, there also can be no assurance that we will be able successfully to develop, prosecute, confirm, and consummate an alternative plan of reorganization with respect to the Chapter 11 Cases that would be acceptable to the Bankruptcy Court and applicable creditors, equity holders and other parties in interest. Additionally, it is possible that third parties may seek to challenge our Plan. Thus, the Debtors’ emergence from bankruptcy is not assured. Prolonged continuation of the Chapter 11 Cases may harm our businesses. A prolonged continuation of the Chapter 11 Cases could adversely affect the Debtors’ business and possibly the business and operations of the Operating Subsidiaries (even though the Operating Subsidiaries are not party to the Chapter 11 Cases). As long as the Chapter 11 Cases continue, our senior management will be required to spend a significant amount of time and effort dealing with the Reorganization instead of focusing exclusively on core business operations. Prolonged continuation of the Chapter 11 Cases may also make it more difficult to attract and retain management and other key personnel necessary to the success of our business. In addition, the longer the Chapter 11 Cases continue, the more likely it is that customers, suppliers and vendors of the Debtors or the Operating Subsidiaries (even though the Operating Subsidiaries are not party to the Chapter 11 Cases) will lose confidence in our ability to Reorganize successfully and seek to establish alternative commercial relationships. Furthermore, as long as the Chapter 11 Cases continue, we will be required to incur substantial costs for professional fees and other expenses associated with the Chapter 11 Cases. The change of control to be produced by the Reorganization of the Debtors may result in a limitation on or loss of our net operating losses for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Our issuance of new common stock, warrants and contingent value rights (“CVRs”) through the Reorganization, along with the cancellation of existing equity interests of Group, may cause us to undergo an ownership change upon emergence from Chapter 11. As a result, Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code (“IRC”) may apply to limit our use of U.S. consolidated net operating losses upon emergence, and our ability to use other carryforwards and tax credits may be limited. The annual limitation imposed by the particular provision of Section 382 of the IRC that we expect to apply to our ownership change generally equals the product of (i) the fair market value of the net equity value of our stock at the time of the ownership change, taking into account the increase in value of the corporation as a result of the surrender or cancellation of creditor’s claims in the transaction (rather than the value without taking into account such increases, as is the case under the general rule for non-bankruptcy ownership changes) multiplied by (ii) the long-term tax exempt rate in effect for the month in which the ownership change occurs. The long-term tax-exempt rate is published monthly by the IRS and is intended to reflect current interest rates on long-term tax-exempt debt obligations. Accordingly, under this rule, the Section 382 limitation would generally reflect the increase in the value of our new stock resulting from the conversion of debt to equity in the Chapter 11 Cases. Section 382 of the IRC applies a similar limitation to a capital loss carryforward and tax credits. Although it is impossible to predict with absolute certainty the net equity value of reorganized companies immediately upon emergence from Chapter 11, our use of our U.S. net operating losses ($73 million as of December 31, 2008) is expected to be substantially limited after an ownership change. 28 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY Material strengthening of the United States dollar against foreign currencies reduces the yield in United States dollars generated from payments from our foreign operating subsidiaries and may adversely affect our ability to service our debt. Our largest operating subsidiaries generate Canadian and Australian dollars. Payments to United States parent entities from these foreign operating subsidiaries are reduced by the material strengthening of the United States dollar, as the yield in United States dollars is reduced. From June 30, 2008 through December 31, 2008, the Canadian and Australian dollars declined by 17% and 28%, respectively, relative to the United States dollar, and this has had a material adverse impact on amounts of United States dollars transferred to United States parent entities. These payments are a substantial source for servicing our significant debt obligations at the United States parent entity levels, as well as a source for making principal payments. Most of our debt is denominated in United States dollars. A reduced yield adversely affects our ability to service or pay off our debt. This, therefore, has a material adverse effect on our ability to service timely our consolidated indebtedness and obligations. Our high level of debt and liquidity needs may adversely affect our financial and operating flexibility. We currently have substantial indebtedness and anticipate that we and our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future in connection with refinancings or the operation or expansion of our business. The recent tightening of global credit markets could also adversely affect our ability to raise needed capital or effect refinancings on acceptable terms or at all. The level and/or terms of our indebtedness (1) could make it difficult for us to make required payments of principal and interest on our outstanding debt as they become due; (2) could limit our ability to obtain any necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes; (3) require that a substantial portion of our cash flow, if any, be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on outstanding indebtedness and other obligations and, accordingly, such cash flow will not be available for use in our business; (4) could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, including demands by some suppliers for more stringent payment terms; (5) result in our being more highly leveraged than many of our competitors, which places us at a competitive disadvantage; (6) will make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business; (7) could limit our ability to fund our operations due to covenant restrictions; and (8) could result in a default or acceleration or cross-default of indebtedness as a result of the initiation or development of the Reorganization involving us, which we may not be able to bring to an acceptable conclusion for our various stakeholder constituencies. Because a significant portion of our business is conducted outside the United States, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results of operations. A significant portion of our net revenue (81% for the year ended December 31, 2008) is derived from sales and operations outside the United States. The reporting currency for our consolidated financial statements is the United States dollar. The local currency of each country is the functional currency for each of our respective entities operating in that country. In the future, we expect to continue to derive a significant portion of our net revenue and incur a significant portion of our operating costs outside the United States, and changes in exchange rates have had and may have a significant, and potentially adverse, effect on our results of operations. Our primary risk of loss regarding foreign currency exchange rate risk is caused by fluctuations in the following exchange rates: USD/AUD, USD/CAD, USD/GBP, and USD/EUR. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” Due to the large percentage of our operations conducted outside of the United States, strengthening of the USD relative to one or more of the foregoing currencies could have an adverse impact on future results of operations. We historically have not engaged in hedging transactions. However, during the fourth quarter 2007, we completed a forward currency contract required by the Canadian Financing Facility and an interest rate swap. Despite the counterparty to the forward currency and interest rate swap agreement entering bankruptcy in October 2008, management believed no breach or event of default had occurred in relation to the Canadian Credit Agreement. As of March 10, 2009, under the Waiver and Amendment Agreement described above, the Lenders under the Canadian Financing Facility waived any such possible breach or event of default. The exposure of our income from operations to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates is reduced in part because a majority of the costs that 29 Table of Contents we incur in connection with our foreign operations are also denominated in local currencies. In addition, the operations of affiliates and subsidiaries in foreign countries have been funded with investments and other advances denominated in foreign currencies. Historically, such investments and advances have been long-term in nature, and we accounted for any adjustments resulting from currency translation as a charge or credit to accumulate other comprehensive loss within the stockholders’ deficit section of our consolidated balance sheets. In 2002, agreements with certain subsidiaries were put in place for repayment of a portion of the investments and advances made to those subsidiaries. As we anticipate repayment in the foreseeable future of these amounts, we recognize the unrealized gains and losses in foreign currency transaction gain (loss) on the consolidated statements of operations, and depending upon changes in future currency rates, such gains or losses could have a significant, and potentially adverse, effect on our results of operations. Our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting were determined not to be effective as of December 31, 2006 and 2007, which condition still existed at December 31, 2008, due to the material weakness that existed in our internal control over accounting for income taxes. Our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not be effective in future periods as a result of existing or newly identified material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting. In performing an internal control assessment at the end of 2006, our management identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, which condition still existed at December 31, 2008. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, that adversely affects a company’s ability to initiate, authorize, record, process, or report external financial data reliably in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles such that there is a more than remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. For a discussion of the material weakness identified by our management, see “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures” on this Form 10-K. To address the material weakness, we performed additional analysis and other post-closing procedures in order to prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The weakness in internal control over accounting for income taxes could be magnified by the loss of, or limitation of, net operating losses for U.S. federal income tax purposes through the Reorganization. See “—Bankruptcy Considerations and Uncertainties.” These additional procedures were costly, time consuming and required us to dedicate a significant amount of resources, including the time and attention of our senior management, toward the correction of these problems. Performing these additional procedures in the future could cause delays in the filing of our periodic and annual reports to the SEC. The potential delay in the filing of our periodic and annual reports could have other adverse effects on our business, including, but not limited to: (1) civil litigation or an investigation by the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which could require us to incur significant legal expenses and other costs or to pay damages, fines or other penalties; (2) covenant defaults, and potentially events of default, under our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing our outstanding debt securities, resulting from our failure to file timely our financial statements; (3) negative publicity; and (4) the loss or impairment of investor confidence in our Company. Given our limited experience in delivering individual and bundled local, wireless, broadband, DSL, Internet, data and hosting and VOIP services, we may not be able to operate successfully or expand these parts of our business. During the third quarter of 2004 we accelerated initiatives to become an integrated wireline, wireless and broadband service provider in order to counter competitive pricing pressures initiated by large incumbent providers in certain of the principal markets where we operate and to stem the loss of certain of our wireline and dial-up ISP customers to our competitors’ bundled wireless, wireline and broadband service offerings. Our experience in providing these products in certain markets and in providing these bundled service offerings is limited. Our primary competitors include incumbent telecommunications providers, cable companies and other ISPs that have a significant national or international presence. Many of these operators have substantially greater resources, capital and operational experience than we do. We are experiencing increased competition from 30 Table of Contents traditional telecommunications carriers and cable companies and other new entrants that have expanded into the market for broadband, VOIP, Internet services, data and hosting and traditional voice services, and regulatory developments may impair our ability to compete. Therefore, future operations involving these individual or bundled services may not succeed in the competitive environment, and we may not be able to expand successfully; may experience margin pressure; may face quarterly revenue and operating results variability; may have limited resources to develop and to market the new services; and have heightened difficulty in establishing future revenues or results. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will reverse revenue declines in our legacy services or maintain or increase revenues or be able to generate sufficient income from operations or net income in the future or on any predictable or timely basis. We may be exposed to significant liability resulting from our noncompliance with FCC Orders regarding enhanced 911 (E911) services. In June 2005, the FCC adopted new rules requiring VOIP providers interconnected to the public switched telephone network to provide E911 service in a manner similar to traditional wireline carriers by November 2005. LINGO, a subsidiary of ours which sells such interconnected VOIP services, was unable, like many interconnected VOIP providers in the industry, to meet this deadline for all of its customers. We sought a waiver from the FCC asking for additional time to complete deploying our E911 service, and the FCC has not yet addressed our waiver petition. As of January 20, 2009, approximately 2% of our LINGO customers were without E911 service as required by the FCC’s rules. If and to the extent that we are determined to be out of compliance with the FCC order regarding E911 services we may be subject to fines, penalties, and/or cease and desist orders prohibiting LINGO from providing service on the federal and state levels. However, at this time, management has determined the likelihood of incurring such fines or penalties to be remote. The FCC rules also required interconnected VOIP providers to distribute stickers and labels informing customers of the emergency service limitations associated with the service, as well as to notify and obtain affirmative acknowledgement from customers that they were aware of all of the emergency service limitations associated with the service. The FCC’s Enforcement Bureau released an order providing that the Enforcement Bureau will not pursue enforcement against interconnected VOIP providers that have received affirmative acknowledgement from at least 90% of their subscribers. We have received affirmative acknowledgement from substantially all of our customers and have effectively satisfied this requirement of the rule. LINGO’s current services are more limited than the 911 services offered by traditional wireline telephone companies. These limitations may cause significant delays, or even failures, in callers’ receipt of the emergency assistance. Despite the fact that we have notified our customers and received affirmative acknowledgement from substantially all of our customers that they understand the differences between the access we provide to emergency services as compared to those available through traditional wireline telephony providers, affected parties may attempt to hold us responsible for any loss, damage, personal injury or death suffered as a result of certain failures to comply with the FCC mandated E911 service for interconnected VOIP providers. Our resulting liability could be significant. On June 1, 2007, the FCC released a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking Proceeding considering the imposition of additional VOIP E911 obligations on interconnected VOIP providers, like us. Specifically, the Commission is considering requiring interconnected VOIP providers to determine automatically the physical location of their customer rather than allowing customers to manually register their location. Moreover, the Notice includes a tentative conclusion that all interconnected VOIP service providers that allow customers to use their service in more than one location (nomadic VOIP service providers such as us) must utilize automatic location technology that meets the same accuracy standards applicable to providers of mobile phone service providers. At this time, we are unable to predict the outcome of this proceeding or its impact on us. On July 23, 2008, President Bush signed into law the “New and Emerging Technologies 911 Improvement Act of 2008.” Prior to enactment, interconnected VOIP providers, like us, did not have the same liability protection as wireline or wireless providers that offer emergency 911 calling services. The new law provides public safety entities, interconnected VOIP providers and others involved in handling 911 calls the same liability 31 Table of Contents protections when handling 911 calls from interconnected VOIP users as from mobile or wired telephone service users. The applicability of the liability protection to 911 calling services that do not conform to the FCC’s rules is unclear at this time. Additionally, any liability associated with 911 call placement and handling prior to the enactment of this new law would not be covered but we are currently unaware of any such liability. The FCC has extended CPNI rules to interconnected VOIP providers, which could limit our marketing efforts. On April 2, 2007, the FCC extended customer proprietary network information, or CPNI, rules to interconnected VOIP providers, like us. CPNI includes information that appears on customers’ bills such as called telephone numbers, the frequency, duration, time and length of calls; and any services or features purchased by the consumer, like caller ID. Pursuant to the CPNI rules, interconnected VOIP providers may not use CPNI without obtaining customer consent except in limited circumstances. Moreover, interconnected VOIP providers are required to adhere to a particular customer approval processes when using CPNI outside of pre-defined limits. Effective December 8, 2007, we were required to adhere to specific CPNI rules when using CPNI for marketing purposes. Accordingly, we had to implement internal processes in order to comply with the FCC’s CPNI rules. As required by the new rules, certifications were filed with the FCC regulating our compliance efforts in this regard. We may be exposed to liability resulting from FCC Orders regarding access for people with disabilities. On June 15, 2007, the FCC applied the disability access requirements of Sections 225 and 255 of the Communications Act to providers of interconnected VOIP services, like us, and to equipment manufacturers that make equipment to use with those services. Section 255 of the Communications Act requires, if readily achievable, service providers to ensure that its equipment and service is accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities. Where readily achievable, the relevant regulations also require service providers to ensure that information and documentation provided in connection with equipment or services be accessible to people with disabilities and that employee training account for accessibility requirements. In addition, the FCC said that interconnected VOIP providers were subject to the requirements of Section 225, including contributing to the Telecommunications Relay Services, or TRS, fund and that they must offer 711 abbreviated dialing for access to relay services. At this time, we are not in compliance with these rules. We may be subject to enforcement actions including, but not limited to, fines, cease and desist orders, or other penalties. On October 10, 2007, the FCC granted a limited waiver of the 711 call handling requirement. While still mandating that interconnected VOIP providers like us are required to transmit 711 calls to a relay center, the FCC waived the requirement until March 31, 2009, insofar as it requires such providers to transmit the 711 call to an “appropriate relay center,” meaning the relay center(s) serving the state in which the caller is geographically located or the relay center(s) corresponding to the caller’s last registered address. We are working on implementing a call routing solution which will route 711 calls to the appropriate relay center as defined in the FCC’s order but cannot predict whether we will be in compliance at the end of the waiver period. Our results of operations may be adversely affected or our retail prices may rise due to increased regulation or the imposition of additional taxes, fees and surcharges. On August 6, 2007, the FCC released a Report and Order regarding the collection of regulatory fees for Fiscal Year 2007 (“Fees Order”). Pursuant to the Fees Order, the FCC mandated the collection of such fees from interconnected VOIP service providers like us. The Fees Order mandates that interconnected VOIP providers pay regulatory fees based on reported interstate and international revenues. The Fees Order became effective in mid-November 2007. The assessment of regulatory fees to our service will increase our costs or cause us to increase the price of our retail service offerings and may have an adverse impact on our profitability. We cannot predict the impact of any future laws, regulations and orders adopted either domestically or abroad on our operations and services. But increased regulation and the imposition of additional taxes, fees and surcharges increases the costs associated with providing our service and such taxes, fees and surcharges may or 32 Table of Contents may not be recoverable from our customers. If we choose to absorb such costs, our profit margins would likely decrease. Moreover, even if such costs are recoverable or if we choose to maintain profitability, we may need to increase the retail price of our service that could result in making our service less competitive both with other providers of interconnected VOIP service providers and traditional providers of telecommunications services. The net effect could reduce the number of our subscribers, our revenue and our profit margin. We are substantially smaller than our major competitors, whose marketing and pricing decisions, and relative size advantage, could adversely affect our ability to attract and to retain customers and are likely to continue to cause significant pricing pressures that could adversely affect our net revenues, results of operations and financial condition. The long distance telecommunications, Internet, broadband, DSL, data and hosting and wireless industry is significantly influenced by the marketing and pricing decisions of the larger long distance, Internet access, broadband, DSL, data and hosting and wireless business participants. Prices in the long distance industry have continued to decline in recent years, and as competition continues to increase within each of our service segments and each of our product lines, we believe that prices are likely to continue to decrease. Competitors in our core markets include, among others: AT&T, Verizon, the regional bell operating companies (RBOCs), cable companies and the major wireless carriers in the United States; Telstra, SingTel Optus and Telecom New Zealand in Australia; Telus, BCE, Allstream (formerly AT&T Canada) and the major wireless and cable companies in Canada; and BT, Cable & Wireless United Kingdom, Colt Telecom, Energis and the major wireless carriers in the United Kingdom. Customers frequently change long distance, wireless, broadband providers, and ISPs in response to the offering of lower rates or promotional incentives, increasingly as a result of bundling of various services by competitors. Moreover, competitors’ VOIP and broadband product rollouts have added further customer choice and pricing pressure. As a result, generally, customers can switch carriers and service offerings at any time. Competition in all of our markets is likely to remain intense, or even increase in intensity and, as deregulatory influences are experienced in markets outside the United States, competition in non-United States markets is becoming similar to the intense competition in the United States. Many of our competitors are significantly larger than us and have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources, larger networks, a broader portfolio of service offerings, greater control over network and transmission lines, stronger name recognition and customer loyalty, long-standing relationships with our target customers, and lower debt leverage ratios. As a result, our ability to attract and retain customers may be adversely affected. Many of our competitors enjoy economies of scale that result in low cost structures for transmission and related costs that could cause significant pricing pressures within the industry. Several long distance carriers in the United States, Canada and Australia and the major wireless carriers and cable companies have introduced pricing and product bundling strategies that provide for fixed, low rates for calls. This strategy of our competitors could have a material adverse effect on our net revenue per minute, results of operations and financial condition if our pricing, set to remain competitive, is not offset by similar declines in our costs. Companies emerging out of bankruptcy might benefit from a lower cost structure and might apply pricing pressure within the industry to gain market share. We compete on the basis of price, particularly with respect to our sales to other carriers, and also on the basis of customer service and our ability to provide a variety of telecommunications products and services. If such price pressures and bundling strategies intensify, we may not be able to compete successfully in the future, may face quarterly revenue and operating results variability, and may have heightened difficulty in estimating future revenues or results. Our repositioning in the marketplace places a significant strain on our resources, and if not managed effectively, could result in operational inefficiencies and other difficulties. Our repositioning in the marketplace may place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources, and increase demand on our systems and controls. To manage this change effectively, we must continue to implement and improve our operational and financial systems and controls, invest in critical network infrastructure to maintain or improve our service quality levels, purchase and utilize other transmission facilities, and train and manage our employee base. If we inaccurately forecast the movement of traffic onto our network, we could have insufficient or excessive transmission facilities and disproportionate fixed expenses. As 33 Table of Contents we proceed with our development, operational difficulties could arise from additional demand placed on customer provisioning and support, billing and management information systems, product delivery and fulfillment, on our support, sales and marketing and administrative resources and on our network infrastructure, maintenance and upgrading. For instance, we may encounter delays or cost-overruns or suffer other adverse consequences in implementing new systems when required, such as our off-shoring certain functions. In addition, our operating and financial control systems and infrastructure could be inadequate to ensure timely and accurate financial reporting, which could impact debt covenant compliance as well. We have experienced significant historical, and may experience significant future, operating losses and net losses which may hinder our ability to meet our debt service or working capital requirements. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $(1,099.8) million. We incurred net losses of $(10.6) million in 2004, $(149.2) million in 2005, $(238.0) million in 2006 and $(25.0) million in 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2007, we recognized net income of $15.7 million, of which $32.7 million was related to the positive impact of foreign currency transaction gains. Even if we are successful in reducing indebtedness through our proposed Reorganization, it is possible that adverse customer or supplier reaction to our Reorganization may have a greater incremental adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods than any interest expense reduction associated with such Reorganization. We cannot assure that we will recognize net income in future periods. If we cannot generate net income or sufficient operating profitability, we may not be able to meet our debt service or working capital requirements. We experience intense domestic and international competition which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. The local and long distance telecommunications, data, broadband, Internet, VOIP, data and hosting and wireless industries are intensely competitive with relatively limited barriers to entry in the more deregulated countries in which we operate and with numerous entities competing for the same customers. Recent and pending deregulation in various countries may encourage new entrants to compete, including ISPs, wireless companies, cable television companies, who would offer voice, broadband, Internet access and television, and electric power utilities who would offer voice and broadband Internet access. For example, the United States and many other countries have committed to open their telecommunications markets to competition pursuant to an agreement under the World Trade Organization which began on January 1, 1998. Further, in the United States, as certain conditions have been met under the Telecommunications Act of 1996, the RBOCs have been allowed to enter the long distance market, and other long distance carriers have been allowed to enter the local telephone services market (although judicial and regulatory developments have diminished the attractiveness of this opportunity), and many entities, including cable television companies and utilities, have been allowed to enter both the local service and long distance telecommunications markets. A deterioration in our relationships with facilities-based carriers could have a material adverse effect upon our business. We primarily connect our customers’ telephone calls and data/Internet needs through transmission lines that we lease under a variety of arrangements with other facilities-based long distance carriers. Many of these carriers are, or may become, our competitors. Our ability to maintain and expand our business depends on our ability to maintain favorable relationships with the facilities-based carriers from which we lease transmission lines. If our relationship with one or more of these carriers were to deteriorate or terminate, for a variety of reasons including but not limited to our proposed Reorganization, it could have a material adverse effect upon our cost structure, service quality, network diversity, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Uncertainties and risks associated with international markets and regulatory requirements could adversely impact our international operations. We have significant international operations and, for the year ended December 31, 2008, derived 81% of our net revenues by providing services outside of the United States. In international markets, we are smaller than the 34 Table of Contents principal or incumbent telecommunications carrier that operates in each of the foreign jurisdictions where we operate. In these markets, incumbent carriers are likely to control access to, and pricing of, the local networks; enjoy better brand recognition and brand and customer loyalty; generally offer a wider range of product and services; and have significant operational economies of scale, including a larger backbone network and more correspondent agreements. Moreover, the incumbent carrier may take many months to allow competitors, including us, to interconnect to our switches within our territory, and we are dependent upon their cooperation in migrating customers onto our network. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the permits and operating licenses required for us to operate; obtain access to local transmission facilities on economically acceptable terms; or market services in international markets. In addition, operating in international markets generally involves additional risks, including unexpected changes or uncertainties in regulatory requirements, taxes, tariffs, customs and duties. Given the nature of our operations and uncertainties in, or the absence of definitive regulations or interpretations concerning, the taxation of (including value added tax of) certain aspects of our business in certain international jurisdictions in which we conduct (or may be construed by such authorities as conducting or deriving taxable) operations or revenue, we may become subject to assessments for taxes (which may include penalties and interest) which are either unexpected and/or have not been accrued for in our historical results of operations. This circumstance occurred during March 2008, when we concluded it was probable that assessments would be forthcoming concerning past European prepaid calling services operations (see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations; Results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2006), and it is possible that tax uncertainties concerning our international operations could arise in the future. Such developments, in addition to the foregoing, could have adverse consequences that could result in restatement of prior period results of operations and unanticipated liquidity demands. Additional operating risks and uncertainties in operating in international markets include trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, problems in collecting accounts receivable, political risks, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, restrictions associated with the repatriation of funds, technology export and import restrictions, and seasonal reductions in business activity. Our ability to operate and grow our international operations successfully could be adversely impacted by these risks and uncertainties particularly in light of the fact that we derive such a large percentage of our revenues from outside of the United States. The telecommunications industry is rapidly changing, and if we are not able to adjust our strategy and resources effectively in the future to meet changing market conditions, we may not be able to compete effectively. The telecommunications industry is changing rapidly due to deregulation, privatization, consolidation, technological improvements, availability of alternative services such as wireless, broadband, DSL, Internet, VOIP, data and hosting and wireless DSL through use of the fixed wireless spectrum, and the globalization of the world’s economies. In addition, alternative services to traditional fixed wireline services, such as wireless, broadband, Internet and VOIP services, are a substantial competitive threat. If we do not adjust to meet changing market conditions including if we do not have adequate resources to do so, we may not be able to compete effectively. The telecommunications industry is marked by the introduction of new product and service offerings and technological improvements. Achieving successful financial results will depend on our ability to anticipate, assess and adapt to rapid technological changes, and offer, on a timely and cost-effective basis, services including the bundling of multiple services that meet evolving industry standards. If we do not anticipate, assess or adapt to such technological changes at a competitive price, maintain competitive services or obtain new technologies on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms, our financial results may be materially and adversely affected. The rapid enhancement of VOIP technology may result in increasing levels of traditional domestic and international voice long distance traffic being transmitted over the Internet, as opposed to traditional telecommunication networks. Currently, there are significant capital investment savings and cost savings associated with carrying voice traffic employing VOIP technology, as compared to carrying calls over traditional 35 Table of Contents networks. Thus, there exists the possibility that the price of traditional long distance voice services will decrease in order to be competitive with VOIP. Additionally, competition is expected to be intense to switch customers to VOIP product offerings, as is evidenced by numerous recent market announcements in the United States and internationally from industry leaders and competitive carriers concerning significant VOIP initiatives. Our ability effectively to retain our existing customer base and generate new customers, either through our traditional network or our own VOIP offerings, may be adversely affected by accelerated competition arising as a result of VOIP initiatives, as well as regulatory developments that may impede our ability to compete, such as restrictions on access to broadband networks owned and operated by others and the requirements to provide E911 services. As competition intensifies as a result of deregulatory, market or technological developments, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. If we are not able to operate a cost-effective network, we may not be able to grow our business successfully. Our long-term success depends on our ability to design, implement, operate, manage, maintain and upgrade a reliable and cost-effective network. In addition, we rely on third parties to enable us to expand and manage our global network and to provide local, broadband Internet, data and hosting and wireless services. If we fail to generate additional traffic on our network, if we experience technical or logistical impediments to our ability to develop necessary network or to migrate traffic and customers onto our network, or if we experience difficulties with our third-party providers, we may not achieve desired economies of scale or otherwise be successful in growing our business. If we are not able to use and protect intellectual property domestically and internationally, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our ability to compete depends, in part, on our ability to use intellectual property in the United States and internationally. We rely on a combination of trade secrets, trademarks and licenses to protect our intellectual property. We are also subject to the risks of claims and litigation alleging infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. The telecommunications industry is subject to frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. We rely upon certain technology, including hardware and software, licensed from third parties. There can be no assurance that the technology licensed by us will continue to provide competitive features and functionality or that licenses for technology currently used by us or other technology that we may seek to license in the future will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Although our existing intellectual property are on standard commercial terms made generally available by the companies providing the licenses and, individually, their costs and terms are not material to our business, the loss of, or our inability to maintain existing licenses, could result in shipment delays or reductions until equivalent technology or suitable alternative products could be developed, identified, licensed and integrated and could cause service disruption to our customers. Such delays or reductions in the aggregate could harm our business. We also generally rely on indemnification provisions in licensing contracts to protect against claims of infringement regarding the licensed technology, which indemnification could be affected by, among other things, the financial strength of the licensor. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. The loss of the services of K. Paul Singh, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, or the services of our other key personnel, or our inability to attract and retain additional key management, technical and sales personnel, could have a material adverse effect upon us. We are subject to potential adverse effects of regulation which may have a material adverse impact on our competitive position, growth and financial performance. Our operations are subject to constantly changing regulation. There can be no assurance that future regulatory changes will not have a material adverse effect on us, or that regulators or third parties will not raise 36 Table of Contents material issues with regard to our compliance or noncompliance with applicable regulations, any of which could have a material adverse effect upon us. As a multinational telecommunications company, we are subject to varying degrees of regulation in each of the jurisdictions in which we provide our services. Local laws and regulations, and the interpretation of such laws and regulations, differ significantly among the jurisdictions in which we operate. Enforcement and interpretations of these laws and regulations can be unpredictable and are often subject to the informal views of government officials. Potential future regulatory, judicial, legislative, and government policy changes in jurisdictions where we operate could have a material adverse effect on us. Domestic or international regulators or third parties may raise material issues with regard to our compliance or noncompliance with applicable regulations, and therefore may have a material adverse impact on our competitive position, growth and financial performance. Regulatory considerations that affect or limit our business include (1) United States common carrier requirements not to discriminate unreasonably among customers and to charge just and reasonable rates; (2) general uncertainty regarding the future regulatory classification of and taxation of VOIP telephony, the need to provide emergency calling services in a manner required by the FCC that is not yet available commercially on a nation-wide basis and the ability to access broadband networks owned and operated by others; as regulators decide that VOIP is a regulated telecommunications service, our VOIP services may be subject to burdensome regulatory requirements and fees, we may be obligated to pay carriers additional interconnection fees and operating costs may increase; (3) general changes at the federal and/or state levels affecting access charges, universal service fund fees and regulatory fee payments would affect our cost of providing services; (4) ongoing regulatory proceedings regarding efforts by Telstra in Australia to increase prices and charges and to deny access to essential facilities; (5) the ultimate outcome of the process launched by the Australian government to help fund the construction of a new national broadband network, including whether and the terms upon which (a) we will have access to such network, and (b) the duration upon which the copper wire based last mile infrastructure needed by us to furnish broadband services using our DSLAM network infrastructure will be continued; (6) general changes in access charges and contribution payments could adversely affect our cost of providing long distance, wireless, broadband, VOIP, local and other services; and (7) regulatory proceedings in Canada determining whether and the extent to which regulation should mandate access to networks and interconnection including intra-exchange transport services which we use to interconnect our DSLAM collocation sites and high speed access to business services. Any adverse developments implicating the foregoing could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, result of operations and prospects. Natural disasters may affect the markets in which we operate, our operations and our profitability. Many of the geographic areas where we conduct our business may be affected by natural disasters, including hurricanes and tropical storms. Hurricanes, tropical storms and other natural disasters could have a material adverse effect on the business by damaging the network facilities or curtailing voice or data traffic as a result of the effects of such events, such as destruction of homes and businesses. A small group of our stockholders could exercise influence over our affairs. As of February 28, 2009, funds affiliated with American International Group, Incorporated (AIG Entities) beneficially owned 13% of our outstanding common stock, which was acquired through the conversion of their Series C Preferred Stock. As a result of such share ownership, these holders may be deemed to exercise influence over our affairs through the provisions of a certain Governance Agreement between such holders and us, dated November 4, 2003, that provide for their right to nominate a candidate for election by our stockholders to the board of directors and nominate one non-voting board observer, in each case subject to the maintenance of certain minimum ownership levels of our common stock and the board’s right to exercise its fiduciary duties. In addition, certain stockholders, other than the AIG Entities, have from time to time made filings with the SEC to report beneficial ownership of our common stock at levels in excess of 5%. Such persons have reported beneficial ownership concerning approximately 20.4 million shares, in aggregate, as of December 31, 2008, and as a result, individually or in the aggregate, could potentially exercise influence over our business. 37 Table of Contents If our proposed Reorganization is consummated, ownership of our common stock could be concentrated, following confirmation, among holders of our currently outstanding notes. Large stockholders’ significant ownership levels, either now or in the future, could have an influence on: amendments to our certificate of incorporation; other fundamental corporate transactions such as mergers and asset sales; and the general direction of our business and affairs. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 