Item 1A. Risk Factors In analyzing whether to make or to continue an investment in our securities, investors should consider, among other factors, the following risk factors. Our results of operations are significantly dependent on economic conditions and related uncertainties. Banking is affected, directly and indirectly, by domestic and international economic and political conditions and by governmental monetary and fiscal policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, volatile interest rates, real estate values, government monetary policy, international conflicts, the actions of terrorists and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in interest rates, in particular, could adversely affect our net interest income and have a number of other adverse effects on our operations, as discussed in the immediately succeeding risk factor. Adverse economic conditions also could result in an increase in loan delinquencies, foreclosures and nonperforming assets and a decrease in the value of the property or other collateral that secures our loans, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations. We are particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions and related uncertainties in Northcentral and Northwest Arkansas because we derive substantially all of our loans, deposits and other business from this area. Accordingly, we remain subject to the risks associated with prolonged declines in national or local economies. Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The operations of financial institutions such as the Bank are dependent to a large extent on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on interest earning assets such as loans and investment securities and the interest expense paid on interest bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. Changes in the general level of interest rates can affect our net interest income by affecting the difference between the weighted average yield earned on our interest earning assets and the weighted average rate paid on our interest bearing liabilities, or interest rate spread, and the average life of our interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities. Changes in interest rates also can affect our ability to originate loans; the value of our interest earning assets; our ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives; and the ability of our borrowers to repay adjustable or variable rate loans. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Although we believe that the estimated maturities and repricing of our interest earning assets currently are fairly well balanced in relation to the estimated maturities and repricing of our interest bearing liabilities (which involves various estimates as to how changes in the general level of interest rates will impact these assets and liabilities), there can be no assurance that our profitability would not be adversely affected during any period of changes in interest rates due to a number of factors which can have a material impact on the Bank’s interest rate risk position. Such factors include among other items, call features and interest rate caps and floors on various assets and liabilities, prepayments, the current interest rates on assets and liabilities to be repriced in each period, and the relative changes in interest rates on different types of assets and liabilities. There are increased risks involved with commercial real estate, construction, commercial business and consumer lending activities. Our lending activities include loans secured by existing commercial real estate. In addition, we originate loans for the construction of single-family residential real estate and land acquisition and development loans. Commercial real estate and construction lending generally is considered to involve a higher degree of risk than single-family residential lending due to a variety of factors, including generally larger loan balances, the dependency on successful completion or operation of the project for repayment, the difficulties in estimating construction costs and loan terms which often do not require full amortization of the loan over its term and, instead, provide for a balloon payment at stated maturity. Our lending activities also include commercial business loans to small- to medium-sized businesses, which generally are secured by various equipment, machinery and other corporate assets, and a wide variety of consumer loans, including automobile loans, deposit account secured loans and unsecured loans. Although commercial business loans and 27 consumer loans generally have shorter terms and higher interest rates than mortgage loans, they generally involve more risk than mortgage loans because of the nature of, or in certain cases the absence of, the collateral which secures such loans. At December 31, 2007, total nonaccrual loans amounted to $33.3 million, a $14.3 million or 75.3% increase compared to nonaccrual loans of $19.0 million at December 31, 2006. Such increase was primarily due to a $6.1 million increase in nonaccrual land development loans, a $3.1 million increase in nonaccrual one- to four-family residential loans and a $5.4 million increase in nonaccrual commercial real estate loans. Such increases are primarily related to loans to local builders for the construction of speculative residential homes and lots and for the construction of pre-sold one- to four-family homes. The Northwest Arkansas market has experienced an oversupply of lots and speculative homes and certain of the Bank’s builders are experiencing extended marketing times for the sale of their homes, resulting in inadequate cash flow to service the interest carry on their loan. As a result, the Bank has substantially curtailed such lending. The resolution of such nonaccrual loans may substantially impact the Company’s provision for loan losses and allowance for loan losses. A decrease in current values or an adverse change in loss experience may require us to increase both our provision for loan losses and our allowance for loan losses. Our allowance for losses on loans may not be adequate to cover probable losses. We have established an allowance for loan losses that we believe is adequate to offset probable losses on our existing loans. There can be no assurance that any further declines in real estate market conditions, general economic conditions or changes in regulatory policies will not require us to increase our allowance for loan losses, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to extensive regulation that could adversely affect our business and operations. We are subject to extensive federal and state governmental supervision and regulation, which are intended primarily for the protection of depositors. In addition, we are subject to changes in federal and state laws, as well as changes in regulations, governmental policies and accounting principles. The effects of any such potential changes cannot be predicted but could adversely affect our business and operations and that of our subsidiaries in the future. We face strong competition that may adversely affect our profitability. We are subject to vigorous competition in all aspects and areas of our business from banks and other financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, savings banks, finance companies, credit unions and other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, consumer finance companies and insurance companies. We also compete with non-financial institutions, including retail stores that maintain their own credit programs and governmental agencies that make available low cost or guaranteed loans to certain borrowers. Certain of our competitors are larger financial institutions with substantially greater resources, lending limits, larger branch systems and a wider array of banking services. Competition from both bank and non-bank organizations will continue. Our ability to successfully compete may be reduced if we are unable to make technological advances. The banking industry is experiencing rapid changes in technology. In addition to improving customer services, effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. As a result, our future success will depend in part on our ability to address our customers’ needs by using technology. We cannot assure that we will be able to effectively develop new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products to our customers. Many of our competitors have far greater resources than we have to invest in technology. We and our banking subsidiary are subject to capital and other requirements that restrict our ability to pay dividends. Our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders depends to a large extent upon the dividends we receive from the Bank. Dividends paid by the Bank are subject to restrictions under the federal laws and regulations. In addition, the Bank must maintain certain capital levels, which may restrict the ability of the Bank to pay dividends to us and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. Holders of our common stock have no preemptive rights and are subject to potential dilution. Our certificate of incorporation does not provide any shareholder with a preemptive right to subscribe for additional shares of common stock upon any increase thereof. Thus, upon the issuance of any additional shares of common stock or other voting securities of the Company or securities convertible into common stock or other voting securities, shareholders may be unable to maintain their pro rata voting or ownership interest in us. 28 We may incur increased employee benefit costs. Our pension benefits are dependent upon multiple factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience. Fluctuations in market performance and changes in interest rates may result in increased or decreased pension costs in future periods. Changes in assumptions regarding expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, changes in our discount rate or expected compensation levels could also increase or decrease pension costs. Future pension funding requirements, and the timing of funding payments, may be subject to changes in legislation. We are subject to security and operational risks relating to our use of technology that could damage our reputation and our business. Security breaches in our internet banking activities could expose us to possible liability and damage our reputation. Any compromise of our security also could deter customers from using our internet banking services that involve the transmission of confidential information. We rely on standard internet security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data. These precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of our security measures that could result in damage to our reputation and our business. Additionally, we outsource our data processing to a third party. If our third party provider encounters difficulties or if we have difficulty in communicating with such third party, it could significantly affect our ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions, which could significantly affect our business operations. The building of market share through our branching strategy could cause our expenses to increase faster than revenues. We intend to continue to build market share in Northwest and Northcentral Arkansas through our branching strategy. We plan to open at least two new branches during calendar year 2008. There are considerable costs involved in opening branches and new branches generally require a period of time to generate sufficient revenues to offset their costs, especially in areas in which we do not have an established presence. Accordingly, any new branch can be expected to negatively impact our earnings for some period of time until the branch reaches certain economies of scale. We have no assurance our new branches will be successful even after they have been established. If external funds are not available, this could adversely impact our growth and future prospects. We primarily rely on deposits and Federal Home Loan Bank advances to fund our operations. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits if desired, no assurance can be given that we will be able to replace such funds in the future if our financial condition or market conditions were to change. Although we consider the sources of existing funds adequate for our current liquidity needs, we may seek brokered deposits or debt in the future to achieve our long-term business objectives. There can be no assurance additional funds, if sought, would be available to us or, if available, would be on favorable terms. If additional financing sources are unavailable or are not available on reasonable terms, our growth and future prospects could be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 29 Item 