Item 1A. Risk Factors I. Financial Risk Factors We recently emerged from Chapter 11 and have a history of losses. We sought protection under chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code in July 2003. While we had $276 million of available cash and $12 million of restricted cash as of December 31, 2005 and believe that this cash, as well as net cash provided by operating activities, will be adequate to meet our expected cash requirements through at least the next 12 months, we have had a history of losses. We incurred net losses of approximately $15 million, $59 million (not including the gain on discharge of pre-petition obligations and fresh-start adjustments of $1.101 billion and the related interest expense of $13 million and a tax benefit of $15 million), for the periods October 2, 2005 to December 31, 2005 and January 1, 2005 to October 1, 2005 and net losses of $177 million and $389 million for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” There can be no assurance that Loral will grow or achieve profitability in the near future. Although we have successfully consummated our Plan of Reorganization and emerged from bankruptcy on November 21, 2005, there is no assurance that negative publicity surrounding our Chapter 11 reorganization will not adversely affect our results of operations or business in the future. It may also adversely affect our ability to obtain financing, which would in turn affect our ability to grow our business. We are a holding company with no operations; we are dependent on cash flow from our operating subsidiaries to meet our financial obligations. Loral Space & Communications Inc. is a holding company whose assets consist principally of the equity interest we own in our subsidiaries, joint ventures and affiliates. We have no independent operations or operating assets. One of our principal operating subsidiaries, Loral Skynet, has outstanding $126 million in 14% senior secured notes due 2015 (the “Loral Skynet Notes”) and $200 million in preferred stock which we do not own, and which is structurally senior to our Loral Skynet common stock. The ability of our subsidiaries to make payments or distributions to us, whether as dividends or as payments under applicable management and shared services agreements, will depend on their operating results, including their ability to satisfy their own cash flow requirements and obligations. Moreover, covenants contained in the indenture relating to the Loral Skynet Notes impose limitations on Loral Skynet’s ability to upstream funds to us. The indenture governing Loral Skynet’s 14% senior secured notes may restrict our current and future operations. The limitations contained in the indenture relating to the $126 million of senior secured notes issued by Loral Skynet upon its emergence from bankruptcy impose restrictions on our operations and limit our ability to enter into financial transactions that we may wish to pursue. These restrictions will affect, and in many respects limit, among other things, Loral Skynet’s and its subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends, make investments, sell assets, make loans, repurchase equity interests or engage in mergers or other like transactions. These restrictions may limit our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. Our ability to redeem these notes in the near-term is limited. During the first two years after the Effective Date, we may redeem the notes at a redemption price of 110% plus accrued and unpaid interest, but only if we do not receive an objection notice from holders of two-thirds of the 11 principal amount of the notes. After this two-year period, the notes are redeemable at our option at a redemption price of 110%, declining over time to 100% in 2014, plus accrued and unpaid interest. The Loral Skynet Notes are collateralized by substantially all of Loral Skynet’s assets. A breach of any of the restrictive covenants contained in the Loral Skynet indenture could result in an event of default, which would give the noteholders the ability to accelerate repayment of the Loral Skynet notes. If Loral Skynet is unable to repay the notes when due, the noteholders will have the right to proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the Loral Skynet Notes, which consists of substantially all of the assets of Loral Skynet and its subsidiaries. We may in the future incur significant additional indebtedness, thereby making us more vulnerable to adverse developments. Although the indenture governing the Loral Skynet Notes contains restrictions on the incurrence of indebtedness by Loral Skynet and its subsidiaries, these restrictions are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial, and in certain cases, may be secured by the same assets that secure the Loral Skynet Notes. Moreover, there are currently no restrictions on the ability of Loral or SS/ L to incur additional indebtedness. As a result, we may be able to incur significant additional debt in the future. If new debt is added, such indebtedness would likely impose more restrictive covenants, which may include financial ratios. If we incur significant additional indebtedness, we would be more vulnerable to, among other things, adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions. XTAR will have significant lease obligations, which may require us to make additional capital contributions to the venture. XTAR has agreed to lease certain transponders on Hisdesat’s recently launched Spainsat satellite. These lease obligations initially amount to $6.2 million per year, growing to $23 million per year in 2008. XTAR’s ability to fund these lease obligations is dependent on it generating a significant increase in customer orders. If XTAR is unable to do so, then XTAR would seek to restructure the terms of the Spainsat lease. If XTAR is unable to do so on terms that are acceptable to it, then we will be faced with the decision of either making additional cash contributions to XTAR to enable it to meet its obligations or allowing XTAR to default under the lease agreement, which may result in a loss of our investment in XTAR. Replacing a satellite upon the end of its useful life will require us to make significant expenditures. To ensure no disruption in Loral Skynet’s business and to prevent loss of customers, we will be required to commence construction of a replacement satellite approximately two to three years prior to the end of life of the satellite then in orbit. For example, we will be required to commence construction of a replacement to our Estrela do Sul satellite in 2008 to ensure a continuation of our business on this satellite. We have also recently commenced construction of our Telstar 11N satellite and will incur substantial expenditures in connection with such effort. Typically, it costs in excess of $200 million to construct, launch and insure a satellite. We have in the past funded this cost from a combination of operating cash flow and financing proceeds. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing to fund such expenditures on favorable terms, if at all. Significant changes in discount rates, actual investment return on pension assets, and other factors could affect our statement of operations, equity, and pension contributions in future periods. Our statement of operations may be positively or negatively impacted by the amount of expense we record for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States of America require that we calculate expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. These valuations reflect assumptions that we make relating to financial market and other economic conditions. Changes in key economic indicators can result in changes in the assumptions we use. The most significant year-end assumptions used to estimate pension or other postretirement expense for the following 12 year are the discount rate, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, and expected future medical inflation. In addition, we are required to make an annual measurement of plan assets and liabilities. Under certain circumstances, at the time of the measurement, we may be required to make a significant charge to equity through a reduction to other comprehensive income. For a discussion regarding how our financial statements can be affected by pension and other postretirement plan accounting policies, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Matters — Pensions and other employee benefits. In 2005, we contributed $20 million to our pension plan. The amounts of our contributions in the future will depend, among other things, on the key economic factors underlying these assumptions. II. Operational Risk Factors • Risk Factors Associated With Satellite Services Launch delays or failures have delayed some of our operations in the past and may do so again in the future. We depend on third parties in the United States and abroad to launch our satellites. Delays in launching satellites are not uncommon and result from construction delays, the unavailability of appropriate launch vehicles and other factors. For example, the launch of the XTAR-EUR satellite was significantly delayed while we waited for Arianespace to complete work on its ECA launch vehicle. Satellite launches are risky, and some launch attempts have ended in complete or partial failure. On January 10, 2004, for example, our Telstar 14/ Estrela do Sul-1 communications satellite was launched by Boeing Sea Launch, but only partially deployed its North solar array. Although the satellite was insured and we collected insurance proceeds of $205 million, the failed solar array deployment has resulted in the availability of only 15 of the satellite’s 41 Ku-band transponders and a life expectancy of only six years as compared to a design life of 15 years. This reduced capacity and life will affect the roll out of our Brazilian business and will reduce operating revenues pending construction of a replacement satellite. We ordinarily insure against launch failures but at considerable cost. The cost and the availability of insurance vary depending on market conditions and the launch vehicle used. Replacing a lost satellite typically requires at least two years from execution of a manufacturing contract to launch. After launch, our satellites remain vulnerable to in-orbit failures which may result in reduced revenues and profits and other financial consequences. In-orbit damage to or loss of a satellite before the end of its expected life results from various causes, some random, including component failure, degradation of solar panels, loss of power or fuel, inability to maintain the satellite’s position, solar and other astronomical events, and space debris. Satellites are built with redundant components or additional components to provide excess performance margins to permit their continued operation in case of a component failure, an event that is not uncommon in complex satellites. Certain of our satellites are currently operating using back-up components because of the failure of primary components. If the back-up components fail, however, and we are unable to restore redundancy, these satellites could lose capacity or be total losses, which would result in a loss of revenues and profits. For example, in July 2005, in the course of conducting our normal operations, we determined that the primary command receiver on two of our satellites had failed. These satellites, which are equipped with redundant command receivers designed to provide full functional capability through the full design life of the satellite, continue to function normally and service to customers has not been affected. Moreover, SS/L, the manufacturer of the satellites, has successfully completed implementation of a software workaround that fully restored the redundant command receiver function on both of these satellites. In addition, three satellites operated by Loral Skynet or its affiliates that were manufactured by SS/ L have experienced minor losses of power from their solar arrays. Although we believe the satellites will fulfill 13 their designed mission lives, there can be no assurance that one or more of the satellites will not experience an additional power loss that could lead to a lessening of transponder capacity and performance degradation. A partial or complete loss of a satellite would result in the loss of revenues and profit for Loral Skynet and us. For further details see Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements. Loral Skynet has in the past entered into prepaid leases, sales contracts and other arrangements relating to transponders on its satellites. Under the terms of these agreements, Loral Skynet may be required to replace transponders that do not meet operating specifications. Failure to replace such transponders may result in a payment obligation on the part of Loral Skynet. It may be difficult to obtain full insurance coverage for satellites that have, or are part of a family of satellites that has, experienced problems in the past; moreover, not all satellite-related losses will be covered by our insurance. While we have in the past typically insured against launch and in-orbit failure of the satellites in our satellite services segment, insurance will not protect us against all losses. For example, insurance will not protect us against business interruption, lost revenues or delay of revenues. Our existing launch and in-orbit insurance policies also include, and future policies are expected to include, specified exclusions, deductibles and material change limitations. Typically, these insurance policies exclude coverage for damage arising from acts of war and other exclusions then customary in the industry. In addition, they typically exclude coverage for health-related problems affecting our satellites that are known at the time the policy is written. We cannot assure that, upon the expiration of an in-orbit insurance policy, which typically has a term of one year, that we will be able to renew the policy on terms acceptable to us. As noted above, insurers may require either exclusions of certain components or may place similar limitations on coverage in connection with insurance renewals for satellites that have experienced problems in the past. For example, the insurance coverage for two of our satellites provides for coverage of losses due to solar array failures only in the event of a capacity loss of 75% or more for one satellite and 80% or more for the other. The loss of a satellite would likely have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and may not be adequately mitigated by insurance coverage. Moreover, if we were to determine in the future that the terms of any particular insurance renewal are uneconomic after taking into account factors such as cost of the insurance and scope of insurance exclusions and limitations, we may elect to self-insure against losses of a satellite. For further details see Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements. Like other satellite operators, we are faced with increased launch and in-orbit insurance premiums. The cost of obtaining insurance has increased significantly, primarily due to post-September 2001 insurance industry developments. This has increased our cost of doing business. For further details see Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements. Our satellite services businesses compete for market share, customers and orbital slots, against competitors that are significantly larger than us. We face significant competition in the transponder leasing business from companies such as Intelsat/ PanAmSat, SES Global/ New Skies Satellites and Eutelsat, all of which are larger and better capitalized than we are. We also face competition from smaller, regional operators, which may enjoy competitive advantages in their local markets. The supply of satellite capacity has increased in recent years, making it more difficult for us to sell our services in certain markets and to maintain our prices for the capacity that we do sell. Competition may cause further downward pressure on prices and further reduce the utilization of our fleet capacity, both of which may have an adverse effect on our financial performance. Our transponder leasing business also competes with fiber optic cable and other terrestrial delivery systems, which have a cost advantage in point-to-point applications. Similarly, our network services business faces competition not only from other satellite-based providers, but also from providers of land-based data communications services, such as cable, DSL (digital subscriber 14 line), wireless local loop and traditional telephone service providers. We will face further price pressure from these companies as they continue to compete for our services. As land-based telecommunications services expand and become more sophisticated, demand for some satellite-based services may be reduced. New technology could render satellite-based services less competitive by satisfying consumer demand in other ways. We also compete for local regulatory approval in places where more than one provider may want to operate, and for scarce frequency assignments and fixed orbital positions. The content of third-party transmissions over our satellites may affect us. Loral Skynet provides satellite capacity for transmissions by third parties. We do not decide what content is transmitted over our satellites, although our contracts generally provide us with rights to prohibit certain types of content or to cease transmission under certain circumstances. Issues arising from the content of transmissions by these third parties over our satellites could affect our future revenues, operations, or our relationship with certain governments or customers. Our business is regulated, causing uncertainty and additional costs. Multiple authorities regulate our business, including the FCC, the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) and the European Union. Regulatory authorities can modify, withdraw or impose charges or conditions upon, or deny or delay action on applications for the licenses we need, and so increase our costs. To prevent frequency interference, the regulatory process requires potentially lengthy and costly negotiations with third parties who operate or intend to operate satellites at or near the locations of our satellites. For example, as part of our coordination effort on Telstar 12, we agreed to provide four 54 MHz transponders on Telstar 12 to Eutelsat for the life of the satellite and have retained risk of loss with respect to those transponders. We also granted Eutelsat the right to acquire, at cost, four transponders on the replacement satellite for Telstar 12. We continue to discuss coordination issues with other operators and may need to make additional financial concessions in connection with future coordination efforts. The failure to reach an appropriate arrangement with a third party having priority rights at or near one of our orbital slots may result in substantial restrictions on the use and operation of our satellite at that location. In addition, while the ITU rules require later-in-time systems to coordinate with us, there can be no assurance that other operators will conduct their operations so as to avoid transmitting any signals that would cause harmful interference to the operation of our satellites. Failure to successfully coordinate our satellites’ frequencies or to resolve other required regulatory approvals could have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial position and our results of operations, as well as the value of our business. For further details see Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements. The recent trend toward industry consolidation in the fixed satellite services industry may adversely affect us. The recent industry consolidation trend will result in the formation of competitors with greater financial resources and increased coverage and scale. While we may pursue strategic transactions on an opportunistic basis, we may not find or be able to take advantage of any suitable opportunities. We may therefore find it difficult to compete with our competitors, many of whom are substantially larger than we are and enjoy the benefits of the economies of scale from their fleets of satellites. • Risk Factors Associated With Satellite Manufacturing The satellite manufacturing market is highly competitive and fixed costs are high. SS/L competes with several large, well-capitalized companies such as Boeing, Lockheed Martin and Orbital Sciences in the United States, and Alcatel Alenia Space and EADS Astrium in Europe, nearly all of which are larger and better capitalized than we are. We may also face competition in the future from emerging low-cost competitors in India, Russia and China. The number of annual satellite manufacturing awards varies and is difficult to predict. In addition, U.S. satellite manufacturers must contend with export control 15 regulations that put them at a disadvantage when competing for foreign customers. Our financial performance is dependent on SS/L’s ability to generate a sustainable order rate and to continue to increase its backlog. The satellite manufacturing industry has suffered from substantial overcapacity worldwide for a number of years, resulting in extreme competitive pressure on pricing terms and other material contractual terms, such as those allocating risk between the manufacturer and its customers. SS/L is a large-scale systems integrator, requiring a large staff of highly-skilled and specialized workforce, as well as specialized manufacturing and test facilities in order to perform under its satellite construction contracts. Although overhead costs at SS/ L were cut substantially during our bankruptcy proceedings, SS/ L must continuously retain the services of a core group of specialists in a wide variety of disciplines for each phase of the design, development, manufacture and testing of its products in order to maintain its ability to compete as one of the leading prime contractors for technologically advanced space satellites. SS/L’s contracts are subject to adjustments, cost overruns, risk of non-payment and termination. SS/L’s major contracts are firm fixed-price contracts under which work performed and products shipped are paid for at a fixed price without adjustment for actual costs incurred. While cost savings under these fixed-price contracts result in gains to SS/L, cost increases result in reduction of margins or losses, borne solely by SS/L. Under such contracts, SS/L may receive progress payments, or it may receive partial payments upon the occurrence of certain program milestones. If performance on these milestones is delayed, SS/L’s receipt of the corresponding payments will also be delayed. Non-performance, including schedule delays, can increase costs and subject us to damages claims from customers, including liquidated damages and termination of the contract for our default. If a contract is terminated, we could be liable for a refund of payments made to date, excess re-procurement costs and other damages incurred by our customer, although SS/L would own the satellite under construction and attempt to recoup any losses through resale to another customer. A contract termination for default could have a material adverse effect on SS/L and us. In addition, many of SS/L’s contracts and subcontracts may be terminated at will by the customer or the prime contractor. In the event of such a termination, SS/L is normally entitled to recover the purchase price for delivered items, reimbursement for allowable costs for work in process, and an allowance for profit or an adjustment for loss, depending on whether completion of the project would have resulted in a profit or loss. Moreover, many of SS/L’s contracts require SS/L to provide vendor financing to its customers or, more customarily, for customers to pay a portion of the purchase price for the satellite over time subject to performance of the satellite, i.e., orbital payments, or a combination of these terms. In some cases these arrangements are provided to customers that are start-up companies or companies in the early stages of building their businesses. As of December 31, 2005, SS/L had recorded vendor financing and orbital receivables of $99 million (of which $57 million was from start-up or early stage companies). Of this $57 million, SS/L had received payments of $49 million as of March 2006. Although we expect to be paid, there can be no assurance that these companies or their businesses will be successful and, accordingly, that they will be able to fulfill their payment obligations under their contracts with SS/L. SS/L’s accounting for long-term contracts requires adjustments to profit and loss based on estimates revised during the execution of the contract. These adjustments may have a material effect on our consolidated financial position and our results of operations in the period in which they are made. The estimates giving rise to these risks, which are inherent in long-term, fixed-price contracts, include the forecasting of costs and schedules, contract revenues related to contract performance, and the potential for component obsolescence due to procurement long before assembly. 16 SS/L may forfeit payments from customers as a result of satellite failures or losses after launch, or may be liable for penalty payments under certain circumstances, and these losses may be uninsured. Most of SS/L’s satellite manufacturing contracts provide that some of the total price is contingently payable as “incentive” payments earned over the life of the satellite, subject to satellite performance. Known as orbitals, SS/L generally does not insure for these payments and in some cases agrees with its customers not to insure them. SS/L records the present value of orbital payments as revenue during the construction of the satellite. SS/L generally receives the present value of these incentive payments if there is a launch failure or a failure caused by customer error. SS/L forfeits some or all of these payments, however, if the loss is caused by satellite failure or as a result of its own error. As of December 31, 2005, SS/L had orbital receivables of $42 million, payable over 16 years. Since these orbital receivables could be affected by future satellite performance, there can be no assurance that SS/L will be able to collect all or a portion of these receivables. Some of SS/L’s contracts call for in-orbit delivery, transferring the launch risk to SS/L. SS/L generally insures against that exposure. In addition, some of SS/L’s contracts provide that SS/L may be liable to a customer for penalty payments under certain circumstances, including late delivery or that a portion of the price paid by the customer is subject to “warranty payback” in the event satellite anomalies were to develop (see Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements). These contingent liabilities are not insured by SS/L. We have recorded reserves in our financial statements based on our current estimates of SS/L’s warranty liabilities. There is no assurance that SS/L’s actual liabilities to its customers in respect of these warranty liabilities will not be greater than the amount reserved for. Some satellites built by SS/L, including three satellites operated by Loral Skynet or other affiliates, have experienced minor losses of power from their solar arrays. Twenty satellites built by SS/L have experienced minor losses of power from their solar arrays. There can be no assurance that one or more will not experience an additional power loss that could lead to a loss of transponder capacity and performance degradation. A partial or complete loss of a satellite could result in an incurrence of warranty payments by, or a loss of orbital incentive payments to SS/L. SS/L has instituted remedial measures that it believes will prevent similar anomalies from occurring on satellites under construction or in development. For further details see Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements. Some satellites built by SS/L have the same design as another SS/L-built satellite that has experienced a partial failure. In November 2004, Intelsat Americas 7 (formerly Telstar 7) experienced an anomaly which caused it to completely cease operations for several days before it was partially recovered. Four other satellites manufactured by SS/L for other customers have designs similar to Intelsat Americas 7 and, therefore, could be susceptible to similar anomalies in the future. A partial or complete loss of these satellites could result in an incurrence of warranty payments by SS/L of up to $18 million. We are subject to export controls, which may result in delays and additional costs. SS/L is required by the U.S. State Department to obtain licenses and enter into technical assistance agreements to export satellites and related equipment, and to disclose technical data to foreign persons. The delayed receipt of or the failure to obtain the necessary licenses and agreements may interrupt the completion of a satellite contract by SS/L and could lead to a customer’s cancellation of a contract, monetary penalties and/or the loss of incentive payments. Some of our customers and potential customers, along with insurance underwriters and brokers have raised concerns that U.S. export control laws and regulations excessively restrict their access to information about the satellite during construction and on-orbit. To the extent that our non-U.S. competitors are not subject to these export control laws and regulations, they may enjoy a competitive advantage with foreign customers, and, to the extent that our foreign competitors continue to gain market share, it could become 17 increasingly difficult for the U.S. satellite manufacturing industry, including SS/L, to recapture this lost market share. The recent trend toward industry consolidation in the fixed satellite services industry may adversely affect us. The recent industry consolidation trend will result in the formation of satellite operators with greater satellite resources and increased coverage. This consolidation may reduce demand for new satellite construction as operators may need fewer satellites in orbit to provide back-up coverage or to rationalize the amount of capacity available in certain geographic regions. It may also result in concentrating additional bargaining power in the hands of large customers, which could increase pressure on pricing and other contractual terms. The availability of qualified personnel and facility space may be limited; SS/L will incur costs to upgrade or expand its facility and these costs may be substantial. SS/L has recently won a number of satellite construction awards and its backlog has expanded significantly. In order to complete construction of all the satellites in backlog, SS/L will need to and is in the process of hiring additional staff and will likely require an expansion of its existing facilities. There can be no assurance that SS/L will be able to hire the employees with the requisite skills and training or to acquire suitable facility space and, accordingly, may not be able to perform its contracts as efficiently as planned. SS/L is in the process of performing a comprehensive evaluation of its facility requirements that takes into account various factors, including its backlog requirements, as well as expansions or upgrades that may be required to enable the company to meet its future growth prospects. The costs of such expansions or upgrades may be substantial. • Risk Associated With Conducting Business Internationally We face risks in conducting business internationally. For the periods October 2, 2005 to December 31, 2005 and January 1, 2005 to October 1, 2005 and for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, approximately 14%, 18%, 42% and 39%, respectively, of our revenue was generated from customers outside of the United States. We could be harmed financially and operationally by changes in foreign regulations and telecommunications standards, tariffs or taxes and other trade barriers that may be imposed on our services, or by political and economic instability in the countries in which we conduct business. Almost all of our contracts with foreign customers require payment in U.S. dollars, and customers in developing countries could have difficulty obtaining U.S. dollars to pay us due to currency exchange controls and other factors. Exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect the ability of our customers to pay us in U.S. dollars. If we need to pursue legal remedies against our foreign business partners or customers, we may have to sue them abroad where it could be difficult for us to enforce our rights. III Other Risks We share control of our affiliates with third parties. We share control of our affiliates with third parties and as a result we do not have control over management of these entities. For example, Hisdesat enjoys substantial approval rights in regard to XTAR, our X-band joint venture. The rights of these third parties and fiduciary duties under applicable law could result in others acting or omitting to act in ways that are not in our best interest. To the extent that these entities are or become customers of SS/L, further conflicts of interest between us and these affiliates are likely to arise. We rely on key personnel. We need highly qualified personnel. Michael Targoff, our chief executive officer, has an employment contract expiring in December 2010, and several of our key officers have two-year employment contracts expiring in November 2007. See Item 11 — Executive Compensation — Employment Contracts, Change in 18 Control and Other Compensation Arrangements below for a description of our financial obligations to our officers. We do not maintain “key man” life insurance. The departure of any of our key executives could have an adverse effect on our business. MHR is our controlling shareholder and may have conflicts of interest with us in the future. MHR Fund Management LLC (“MHR”), through its affiliated funds, beneficially owns approximately 35.9% of our common stock and is the largest single holder of our common stock. MHR also owns 38.3% of Loral Skynet’s preferred stock and 44.6% of Loral Skynet’s senior secured notes. Moreover, representatives of MHR occupy three of the nine seats on our board of directors, and two additional directors were selected by the creditors’ committee in our Chapter 11 Cases, in which MHR served as the chairman. Conflicts of interests may arise in the future between us and MHR. For example, MHR and its affiliated funds are in the business of making investments in companies and may acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act increases our operating expenses. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), have required changes to some of our corporate governance practices. These changes include developing financial and disclosure processes that satisfy Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We expect that these rules and regulations will continue to make some activities more difficult, time-consuming and costly. We also expect that these rules and regulations could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our Board of Directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and to attract and retain qualified executive officers. If we are unable to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules and regulations, our business could be materially adversely affected. The future use of tax attributes is limited upon emergence from bankruptcy. As of December 31, 2005, Loral had net operating loss carryforwards, or NOLs, of approximately $1.1 billion that are available to offset future taxable income. Since our reorganization on the Effective Date constituted an “ownership change” under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, our ability to use these NOLs, as well as certain other tax attributes existing at the Effective Date, is subject to an annual limitation of approximately $32 million, subject to modification based on certain factors. If New Loral experiences an additional “ownership change” during any three-year period after the Effective Date, future use of these tax attributes may become further limited. An ownership change would be triggered if shareholders owning five percent or more of our total equity value dispose of their holdings during a three-year period by more than 50 percent in the aggregate. Since Loral’s charter contains no restriction on the transfer of equity interests, if our existing significant shareholders were to dispose of all of their equity interests in New Loral during this three-year period, an additional “ownership change” will have occurred. There is a thin trading market for our common stock. Our common stock was first issued and listed on the NASDAQ National Market in December 2005. Since that time, trading activity in our stock has generally been light. Moreover, over 50% of our common stock is effectively held by MHR and two other shareholders. If any of our significant shareholders should sell some or all of their holdings, it will likely have an adverse effect on our share price. Funds affiliated with MHR have registration rights in respect of the securities they hold in Loral and Loral Skynet, including our common stock. The market for our stock could be adversely affected by future issuance of significant amounts of our common stock. As of December 31, 2005, 20,000,000 shares of our common stock were outstanding. On that date, there were 1,390,452 stock options outstanding which will become vested and exercisable over the next four years. In addition, in March 2006, subject to stockholder approval at an annual or special meeting of our 19 stockholders, we adopted an amendment to our 2005 Stock Incentive Plan to increase by 825,000 the number of shares available for grant thereunder. This amendment covers the grant in March 2006 (the “March 2006 Option Grant”), subject to stockholder approval of the plan amendment, of options to purchase 825,000 shares to our Chief Executive Officer, Michael B. Targoff, in connection with his entering into an employment agreement with us. Moreover, we intend to further amend our stock option plan in the future to provide for additional increases in the number of shares available for grant thereunder, including, among others, an increase to cover an option grant which we have agreed, provided he has earned his target bonus for 2006 and 2007, to grant to Mr. Targoff in 2008 with a Black-Scholes value equal to one-half of the value of his March 2006 Option Grant and an increase to cover the component of annual fees to our directors that consists of restricted stock awards. In connection with a stipulation entered into with certain directors and officers of Old Loral and a stipulation entered into with the plaintiffs in a purported class action lawsuit brought by participants in the 401(k) Savings Plan of Old Loral, certain claims aggregating $77 million may result in the distribution of our common stock in addition to the 20 million shares being distributed under the Plan of Reorganization. For more detail about these stipulations, see Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements. Sales of significant amounts of our common stock to the public, or the perception that those sales could happen, could adversely affect the market for, and the trading price of, our common stock. IV Litigation and Disputes We are involved in a number of ongoing lawsuits. We are involved in a number of lawsuits, details of which can be found in Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements. In addition, we are involved in a number of disputes which might result in litigation. For example, we have brought an adversary proceeding against International Launch Services in the Bankruptcy Court seeking recovery of $37.5 million of deposits held by ILS. ILS has filed counterclaims in which it is seeking to recover damages, in an unspecified amount, as a result of our alleged failure to assign to ILS two satellite launches and $38 million in lost revenue due to our alleged failure to comply with a contractual obligation to assign to ILS the launch of another satellite. For further details see Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements. If any of these lawsuits or disputes are decided against us it could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and our results of operations. An appeal has been filed seeking to overturn the settlement agreement we entered into with Globalstar, L.P. In April 2003, one of Globalstar, L.P.’s creditors filed a motion seeking reconsideration of court approval of a settlement agreement between Loral and Globalstar, L.P. and Globalstar’s official creditor’s committee in which, among other things, Globalstar granted to Loral, subject to certain conditions, a general release of all claims it might have against Loral. The court denied this motion for reconsideration in May 2003, and, in June 2003, the creditor filed with the Federal Appeals Court a notice of appeal of the court’s order approving the settlement agreement. Although we believe that the appeal, which is currently pending, is without merit, no assurance can be given in this regard or as to what relief, if any, might be granted in the event the appeal were to be successful. 20 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 